
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 179 - IRRADIATION IN THE PRODUCTION, PROCESSING AND HANDLING OF FOOD
##### Subpart C - Packaging Materials for Irradiated Foods
###### § 179.45 Packaging materials for use during the irradiation of prepackaged foods.

The packaging materials identified in this section may be safely subjected to irradiation incidental to the radiation treatment and processing of prepackaged foods, subject to the provisions of this section and to the requirement that no induced radioactivity is detectable in the packaging material itself:

(a) The radiation of the food itself shall comply with regulations in this part.

(b) The following packaging materials may be subjected to a dose of radiation, not to exceed 10 kilograys, unless otherwise indicated, incidental to the use of gamma, electron beam, or X-radiation in the radiation treatment of prepackaged foods:

(1) Nitrocellulose-coated or vinylidene chloride copolymer-coated cellophane complying with § 177.1200 of this chapter.

(2) Glassine paper complying with § 176.170 of this chapter.

(3) Wax-coated paperboard complying with § 176.170 of this chapter.

(4) Polyolefin film prepared from one or more of the basic olefin polymers complying with § 177.1520 of this chapter. The finished film may contain:

(i) Adjuvant substances used in compliance with §§ 178.3740 and 181.22 through 181.30 of this chapter, sodium citrate, sodium lauryl sulfate, polyvinyl chloride, and materials as listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) Coatings comprising a vinylidene chloride copolymer containing a minimum of 85 percent vinylidene chloride with one or more of the following comonomers: Acrylic acid, acrylonitrile, itaconic acid, methyl acrylate, and methyl methacrylate.

(5) Kraft paper prepared from unbleached sulfate pulp to which rosin, complying with § 178.3870 of this chapter, and alum may be added. The kraft paper is used only as a container for flour and is irradiated with a dose not exceeding 500 grays.

(6) Polyethylene terephthalate film prepared from the basic polymer as described in § 177.1630(e)(4)(i) and (ii) of this chapter. The finished film may contain:

(i) Adjuvant substances used in compliance with §§ 178.3740 and 181.22 through 181.30 of this chapter, sodium citrate, sodium lauryl sulfate, polyvinyl chloride, and materials as listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) Coatings comprising a vinylidene chloride copolymer containing a minimum of 85 percent vinylidene chloride with one or more of the following comonomers: Acrylic acid, acrylonitrile, itaconic acid, methyl acrylate, and methyl methacrylate.

(iii) Coatings consisting of polyethylene conforming to § 177.1520 of this chapter.

(7) Polystyrene film prepared from styrene basic polymer. The finished film may contain adjuvant substances used in compliance with §§ 178.3740 and 181.22 through 181.30 of this chapter.
