
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 179 - IRRADIATION IN THE PRODUCTION, PROCESSING AND HANDLING OF FOOD
##### Subpart C - Packaging Materials for Irradiated Foods
###### § 179.45 Packaging materials for use during the irradiation of prepackaged foods.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(9) Vinylidene chloride-vinyl chloride copolymer film prepared from vinylidene chloride-vinyl chloride basic copolymers containing not less than 70 weight percent of vinylidene chloride and having a viscosity of 0.50-1.50 centipoises as determined by ASTM method D729-81, "Standard Specification for Vinylidene Chloride Molding Compounds," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the American Society for Testing Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, Philadelphia, PA 19428-2959, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The finished film may contain adjuvant substances used in compliance with §§ 178.3740 and 181.22 through 181.30 of this chapter.

(10) Nylon 11 conforming to § 177.1500 of this chapter.

(c) Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers complying with § 177.1350 of this chapter. The ethylene-vinyl acetate packaging materials may be subjected to a dose of radiation, not to exceed 30 kilogray (3 megarads), incidental to the use of gamma, electron beam, or X-radiation in the radiation treatment of packaged foods.

(d) The following packaging materials may be subjected to a dose of radiation, not to exceed 60 kilograys incidental to the use of gamma, electron beam, or X-radiation in the radiation processing of prepackaged foods:

(1) Vegetable parchments, consisting of a cellulose material made from waterleaf paper (unsized) treated with concentrated sulfuric acid, neutralized, and thoroughly washed with distilled water.

(2) Films prepared from basic polymers and with or without adjuvants, as follows:

(i) Polyethylene film prepared from the basic polymer as described in § 177.1520(a) of this chapter. The finished film may contain one or more of the following added substances:

(ii) Polyethylene terephthalate film prepared from the basic polymer as described in § 177.1630(e)(4)(ii) of this chapter. The finished film may contain one or more of the added substances listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(iii) Nylon 6 films prepared from the nylon 6 basic polymer as described in § 177.1500(a)(6) of this chapter and meeting the specifications of item 6.1 of the table in § 177.1500(b) of this chapter. The finished film may contain one or more of the added substances listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(iv) Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate copolymer film prepared from the basic copolymer containing 88.5 to 90.0 weight percent of vinyl chloride with 10.0 to 11.5 weight percent of vinyl acetate and having a maximum volatility of not over 3.0 percent (1 hour at 105 &#xB0;C) and viscosity not less than 0.30 determined by ASTM method D1243-79, "Standard Test Method for Dilute Solution Viscosity of Vinyl Chloride Polymers," Method A, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b)(9) of this section. The finished film may contain one or more of the added substances listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(e) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of § 180.22 of this chapter.
