
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 180 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FOOD OR IN CONTACT WITH FOOD ON AN INTERIM BASIS PENDING ADDITIONAL STUDY
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements for Certain Food Additives
###### ยง 180.37 Saccharin, ammonium saccharin, calcium saccharin, and sodium saccharin.
####### http://www.usp.org,http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(b) The food additives meet the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 7th ed. (2010), pp. 52-54, 153-154, 898-899, 961-962, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, 12601 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20852 (Internet address). Copies may be examined at the Food and Drug Administration's Main Library, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 2, Third Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to:

(c) Authority for such use shall expire when the Commissioner receives the final reports on the ongoing studies in Canada and publishes an order on the safety of saccharin and its salts based on those reports and other available data.

(d) The additives are used or intended for use as a sweetening agent only in special dietary foods, as follows:

(1) In beverages, fruit juice drinks, and bases or mixes when prepared for consumption in accordance with directions, in amounts not to exceed 12 milligrams of the additive, calculated as saccharin, per fluid ounce.

(2) As a sugar substitute for cooking or table use, in amounts not to exceed 20 milligrams of the additive, calculated as saccharin, for each expressed teaspoonful of sugar sweetening equivalency.

(3) In processed foods, in amounts not to exceed 30 milligrams of the additive, calculated as saccharin, per serving of designated size.

(e) The additives are used or intended for use only for the following technological purposes:

(1) To reduce bulk and enhance flavors in chewable vitamin tablets, chewable mineral tablets, or combinations thereof.

(2) To retain flavor and physical properties of chewing gum.

(3) To enhance flavor of flavor chips used in nonstandardized bakery products.

(f) To assure safe use of the additives, in addition to the other information required by the Act:

(1) The label of the additive and any intermediate mixes of the additive for manufacturing purposes shall bear:

(i) The name of the additive.

(ii) A statement of the concentration of the additive, expressed as saccharin, in any intermediate mix.

(iii) Adequate directions for use to provide a final food product that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(2) The label of any finished food product containing the additive shall bear:

(i) The name of the additive.

(ii) The amount of the additive, calculated as saccharin, as follows:
