
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1007 Aconitic acid.
####### Residue on ignition.

(7)Not more than 0.1 percent as determined by the "Food Chemicals Codex," 4th ed. (1996), pp. 102-103, test for citric acid, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring substance and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in food, in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 0.003 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter, 0.002 percent for alcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(2) of this chapter, 0.0015 percent for frozen dairy products as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter, 0.0035 percent for soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter, and 0.0005 percent or less for all other food categories.

(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
