
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1025 Caprylic acid.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the "Food Chemicals Codex," 3d Ed. (1981), p. 207, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in foods in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practices result in maximum levels, as served, of: 0.013 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.04 percent for cheeses as defined in § 170.3(n)(5) of this chapter; 0.005 percent for fats and oils as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter, for frozen dairy desserts as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter, for gelatins and puddings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter, for meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter, and for soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; 0.016 percent for snack foods as defined in § 170.3(n)(37) of this chapter; and 0.001 percent or less for all other food categories.

(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
