
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1065 Linoleic acid.

(a) Linoleic acid ((Z, Z)-9, 12-octadecadienoic acid (CHCOOH) (CAS Reg. No. 60-33-3)), a straight chain unsaturated fatty acid with a molecular weight of 280.5, is a colorless oil at room temperature. Linoleic acid may be prepared from edible fats and oils by various methods including hydrolysis and saponification, the Twitchell method, low pressure splitting with catalyst, continuous high pressure counter current splitting, and medium pressure autoclave splitting with catalyst.

(b) The ingredient must be of a purity suitable for its intended use. The ingredient must also meet the specifications in § 172.860(b) of this chapter.

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter and as a nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter.

(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice. The ingredient may be used in infant formula in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act.

(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
