
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1069 Malic acid.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the "Food Chemicals Codex," 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 183-184, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredients are used as a flavor enhancer as defined in § 170.3(o)(11) of this chapter, flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter, and pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredients are used in food, except baby food, at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 3.4 percent for nonalcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; 3.0 percent for chewing gum as defined in § 170.3(n)(6) of this chapter; 0.8 percent for gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; 6.9 percent for hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25) of this chapter; 2.6 percent for jams and jellies as defined in § 170.3(n)(28) of this chapter; 3.5 percent for processed fruits and fruit juices as defined in § 170.3(n)(35) of this chapter; 3.0 percent for soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; and 0.7 percent for all other food categories.

(e) Prior sanctions for malic acid different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
