
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1077 Potassium acid tartrate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), P. 238, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as an anticaking agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(1) of this chapter; an antimicrobial agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(2) of this chapter; a formulation aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(14) of this chapter; a humectant as defined in § 170.3(o)(16) of this chapter; a leavening agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(17) of this chapter; A pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter; a processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter; a stabilizer and thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter; and a surface-active agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(29) of this chapter.

(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter; gelatins and puddings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25) of this chapter; jams and jellies as defined in § 170.3(n)(28) of this chapter; and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter.

(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
