
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1157 Benzoyl peroxide.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 35, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as a bleaching agent in food.

(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: flour; milk used for production of Asiago fresh and Asiago soft cheese (§ 133.102), Asiago medium cheese (§ 133.103), Asiago old cheese (§ 133.104), Blue cheese (§ 133.106), Caciocavallo siciliano chesse (§ 133.111), Gorgonzola cheese (§ 133.141), Parmesan and reggiano cheese (§ 133.165), Provolone cheese (§ 133.181), Romano cheese (§ 133.183), and Swiss and emmentaler cheese (§ 133.195) in part 133 of this chapter; and annatto-colored whey, such that the final bleached product conforms to the descriptions and specifications for whey, concentrated whey, or dried whey in § 184.1979(a)(1), (2), or (3), respectively.

(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
