
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1185 Calcium acetate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 44, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredient is used as a firming agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(10) of this chapter; pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter; processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter; sequestrant as defined in § 170.3(o)(26) of this chapter; stabilizer and thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter; and texturizer as defined in § 170.3(o)(32) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practices in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practices result in a maximum level, as served, of 0.2 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.02 percent for cheese as defined in § 170.3(n)(5) of this chapter; 0.2 percent for gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; 0.15 percent for sweet sauces, toppings, and syrups as defined in § 170.3(n)(43) of this chapter; and 0.0001 percent for all other food categories.

(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section or in part 181 of this chapter do not exist or have been waived.
