
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1199 Calcium gluconate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 51, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredient is used as a firming agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(10) of this chapter; formulation aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(14) of this chapter; sequestrant as defined in § 170.3(o)(26) of this chapter; stabilizer or thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter; and texturizer as defined in § 170.3(o)(32) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practices in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practices result in a maximum level, as served, of 1.75 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.4 percent for dairy product analogs as defined in § 170.3(n)(10) of this chapter; 4.5 percent for gelatins and puddings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; and 0.01 percent for sugar substitutes as defined in § 170.3(n)(42) of this chapter.

(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
