
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1230 Calcium sulfate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the "Food Chemicals Codex," 3d Ed. (1981), p. 66, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredient is used as an anticaking agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(1) of this chapter, color and coloring adjunct as defined in § 170.3(o)(4) of this chapter, dough strengthener as defined in § 170.3(o)(6) of this chapter, drying agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(7) of this chapter, firming agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(10) of this chapter, flour treating agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(13) of this chapter, formulation aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(14) of this chapter, leavening agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(17) of this chapter, nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter, pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter, processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter, stabilizer and thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter, synergist as defined in § 170.3(o)(31) of this chapter, and texturizer as defined in § 170.3(o)(32) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 1.3 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter, 3.0 percent for confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter, 0.5 percent for frozen dairy desserts and mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter, 0.4 percent for gelatins and puddings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter, 0.5 percent for grain products and pastas as defined in § 170.3(n)(23) of this chapter, 0.35 percent for processed vegetables as defined in § 170.3(n)(36) of this chapter, and 0.07 percent or less for all other food categories.

(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
