
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 184.1257 Clove and its derivatives.
####### http://www.nap.edu,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) Clove bud oil, clove leaf oil, clove stem oil, and eugenol meet the specifications of the "Food Chemicals Codex," 4th ed. (1996), pp. 104-105, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, Box 285, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20055 (Internet address), or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:As determined by analytical methods in the "Food Chemicals Codex," clove oleoresin or other natural extractives (other than clove oils) meet the "Food Chemicals Codex" specifications for clove (clove bud) oil and the following modifications:

(1) The assay for phenols, as eugenol, by the "Food Chemicals Codex" test, 4th ed. (pp. 104-105), or the volatile oils content by the "Food Chemicals Codex" test, 4th ed. (pp. 104-105) should conform to the representation of the vendor;

(2) Optical rotation of the volatile oil between -2&#xB0; and 0&#xB0;;

(3) Refractive index of the volatile oil between 1.527 and 1.538 at 20 &#xB0;C;

(4) Specific gravity of the volatile oil between 1.036 and 1.060; and

(5) Residual solvent free, except those solvents that are GRAS or within tolerance levels as specified in part 173, subpart C, of this chapter.

(c) Clove and its derivatives are used as flavoring agents and adjuvants as defined in ยง 170.3(0)(12) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredients are used in food at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice in accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(1).

(e) Prior sanctions for these ingredients different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
