
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1295 Ethyl formate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the "Food Chemicals Codex," 3d Ed. (1981), p. 376, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 0.05 percent in baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.04 percent in chewing gum as defined in § 170.3(n)(6), hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25), and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; 0.02 percent in frozen dairy desserts as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter; 0.03 percent in gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; and 0.01 percent in all other food categories.

(e) Prior sanctions for ethyl formate different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
