
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1323 Glyceryl monooleate.

(a) Glyceryl monooleate is prepared by esterification of commercial oleic acid that is derived either from edible sources or from tall oil fatty acids meeting the requirements of § 172.862 of this chapter. It contains glyceryl monooleate (CHO, CAS Reg. No. 25496-72-4) and glyceryl esters of fatty acids present in commercial oleic acid.

(b) The ingredient must be of a purity suitable for its intended use.

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter and as a solvent and vehicle as defined in § 170.3(o)(27) of this chapter.

(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods and baking mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; nonalcoholic beverages and beverage bases as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; chewing gum as defined in § 170.3(n)(6) of this chapter; and meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter.

(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the use established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
