
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1498 Microparticulated protein product.

(a) Microparticulated protein product is prepared from egg whites or milk protein or a combination of egg whites and milk protein. These protein sources may be used alone or in combination with other safe and suitable ingredients to form the microparticulated product. The mixture of ingredients is high-shear heat processed to achieve a smooth and creamy texture similar to that of fat. Safe and suitable ingredients used in the preparation of the microparticulated protein product must be used in compliance with the limitations of the appropriate regulations in parts 172, 182, and 184 of this chapter.

(b) The ingredient is used in food in accordance with § 184.1(b)(2) at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of the use of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used in food as a thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter or as a texturizer as defined in § 170.3(o)(32) of this chapter.

(2) The ingredient is used in frozen dessert-type products except that the ingredient may not be used to replace the milk fat required in standardized frozen desserts.

(3) The name of the ingredient used in the ingredient statement on both bulk and packaged food must include the source of the protein (e.g., "microparticulated egg white protein"), followed by a parenthetical listing of each of the ingredients in the microparticulated protein product, in descending order of predominance. Microparticulated protein product must be used in accordance with this requirement or its addition to food will be considered by FDA to constitute the use of an unapproved food additive (see § 184.1(b)(2)).
