
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 184.1555 Rapeseed oil.
####### Fully hydrogenated rapeseed oil.,napus,campestris,Brassica

(a)(1) Fully hydrogenated rapeseed oil is a mixture of triglycerides in which the fatty acid composition is a mixture of saturated fatty acids. The fatty acids are present in the same proportions which result from the full hydrogenation of fatty acids occurring in natural rapeseed oil. The rapeseed oil is obtained from theandvarieties ofof the family Cruciferae. It is prepared by fully hydrogenating refined and bleached rapeseed oil at 310-375 &#xB0;F, using a catalyst such as nickel, until the iodine number is 4 or less.

(2) The ingredient meets the following specifications: Acid value not more than 6, arsenic not more than 3 parts per million, free glycerin not more than 7 percent, heavy metals (as Pb) not more than 10 parts per million, iodine number not more than 4, residue on ignition not more than 0.5 percent.

(3) The ingredient is used as a stabilizer and thickener as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter in peanut butter. The use level of the ingredient is limited by good manufacturing practice (GMP) to the minimum amount required to produce the intended effect. Current good manufacturing practices result in a maximum level of 2 percent in peanut butter.
