
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1769a Sodium metasilicate.

(a) Sodium metasilicate (CAS Reg. No. 6834-92-0) is a strongly alkaline white powder. It does not occur naturally but rather is synthesized by melting sand with sodium carbonate at 1400 &#xB0;C. The commercially available forms of sodium metasilicate are the anhydrous form (NaSiO), the pentahydrate (NaSiO&#xB7;5HO), and the nonahydrate (NaSiO&#xB7;9HO).

(b) The ingredient must be of a purity suitable for its intended use.

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as a processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter.

(2) The ingredient is used to treat the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: for use in washing and lye peeling of fruits, vegetables, and nuts when used in accordance with § 173.315 of this chapter; for use as a denuding agent in tripe; for use as a hog scald agent in removing hair; and for use as a corrosion preventative in canned and bottled water when used in accordance with § 165.110 of this chapter.

(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
