
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1911 Triethyl citrate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d ed. (1981), p. 339, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, and the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; a solvent and vehicle as defined in § 170.3(o)(27) of this chapter; and a surface-active agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(29) of this chapter.

(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.

(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section, or different from those set forth in part 181 of this chapter, do not exist or have been waived.
