
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 184.1950 Vitamin D.

(a) Vitamin D is added to food as the following food ingredients:

(1) Crystalline vitamin D(CHO, CAS Reg. No. 50-14-6), also known as ergocalciferol, is the chemical 9,10-seco(5Z,7E,22E)-5,7,10(19),22-ergostatetraen-3-ol. The ingredient is produced by ultraviolet irradiation of ergosterol isolated from yeast and related fungi and is purified by crystallization.

(2) Crystalline vitamin D(CHO, CAS Reg. No. 67-97-0), also known as cholecalciferol, is the chemical 9,10-seco(5Z,7E,)-5,7,10(19)-cholestatrien-3-ol. Vitamin Doccurs in, and is isolated from, fish liver oils. It is also manufactured by ultraviolet irradiation of 7-dehydrocholesterol produced from cholesterol. It is purified by crystallization. Vitamin Dis the vitamin D form that is produced endogenously in humans through sunlight activation of 7-dehydrocholesterol in the skin.

(3) Vitamin Dresin and vitamin Dresin are the concentrated forms of irradiated ergosterol (D) and irradiated 7-dehydrocholesterol (D) that are separated from the reacting materials in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. The resulting products are sold as food sources of vitamin D without further purification.
