
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 184.1950 Vitamin D.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) Vitamin Dand vitamin Das crystals meet the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 344 and 345, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Vitamin Dresin and vitamin Dresin must be of a purity suitable for their intended use.

(c)(1) In accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(2), the ingredients are used in food as the sole source of added vitamin D only within the following specific limitations:

(2) Vitamin D may be used in infant formula in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act.

(3) Vitamin D may be used in margarine in accordance with ยง 166.110 of this chapter.

(d) Prior sanctions for these ingredients different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
