
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### § 184.1973 Beeswax (yellow and white).
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the "Food Chemicals Codex," 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 34-35, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter, as a lubricant as defined in § 170.3(o)(18) of this chapter, and as a surface-finishing agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(30) of this chapter.

(d) The ingredient is used in food, in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1) of this chapter, at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of: 0.065 percent for chewing gum as defined in § 170.3(n)(6) of this chapter; 0.005 percent for confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter; 0.04 percent for hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25) of this chapter; 0.1 percent for soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; and 0.002 percent or less for all other food categories.
