
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 184.1979 Whey.
####### http://www.nap.edu,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Limits of impurities are: Heavy metals (as lead). Not more than 10 parts per million (0.001 percent) as determined by the method described in the "Food Chemicals Codex," 4th ed. (1996), pp. 760-761, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, Box 285, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20055 (Internet address), or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) The whey must be derived from milk that has been pasteurized, or the whey and modified whey product must be subjected to pasteurization techniques or its equivalent before use in food.

(c) Whey, concentrated whey, and dry (dried) whey may be used in food in accordance with good manufacturing practice as indicated in ยง 184.1(b)(1).

(d) The label on the whey form sold to food manufacturers shall read as follows:

(1) For whey: "(Sweet or acid) whey" or "whey (____% titratable acidity).

(2) For concentrated whey: "Concentrated (sweet or acid) whey, ____% solids" or "Concentrated whey (____% titratable acidity), ____% solids".

(3) For dry (dried) whey: "Dry (dried) (sweet or acid) whey" or "dry (dried) whey, (____% titratable acidity)".

(e) Whey, concentrated whey, or dry (dried) whey in a finished food product shall be listed as "whey."
