
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 184 - DIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 184.1979c Whey protein concentrate.
####### http://www.nap.edu,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Limits of impurities are: Heavy metals (as lead). Not more than 10 parts per million (0.001 percent), as determined by the method described in the "Food Chemicals Codex," 4th ed. (1996), pp. 760-761, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, Box 285, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20055 (Internet address), or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) The whey protein concentrate shall be derived from milk that has been pasteurized, or the whey protein concentrate shall be subjected to pasteurization techniques or its equivalent before use in food.

(c) The whey protein concentrate may be used in food in accordance with good manufacturing practice as indicated in ยง 184.1(b)(1).

(d) The percent of protein present on a dry product basis, i.e., "whey protein concentrate (____% protein)," shall be declared on the label of the package sold to food manufacturers. The percent of protein may be declared in 5-percent increments, expressed as a multiple of 5, not greater than the actual percentage of protein in the product, or as an actual percentage provided that an analysis of the product on which the actual percentage is based is supplied to the food manufacturer.

(e) The presence of whey protein concentrate in a finished food product shall be listed as "whey protein concentrate".
