
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 186 - INDIRECT FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 186.1555 Japan wax.
####### Rhus succedanea,R. vernicifera,R. trichocarpa

(a) Japan wax (CAS Reg. No. 8001-39-6), also known as Japan tallow or sumac wax, is a pale yellow vegetable tallow, containing glycerides of the C-Cdibasic acids and a high content of tripalmitin. It is prepared from the mesocarp by hot pressing of immature fruits of the oriental sumac,(Japan, Taiwan, and Indo-China),(Japan), and(China, Indo-China, India, and Japan). Japan wax is soluble in hot alcohol, benzene, and naphtha, and insoluble in water and in cold alcohol.

(b) In accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the ingredient is used as an indirect human food ingredient with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as an indirect human food ingredient is based on the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:

(1) The ingredient is used as a constituent of cotton and cotton fabrics used for dry food packaging.

(2) The ingredient is used at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.

(c) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.
