
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Labeling Provisions
###### ยง 201.10 Drugs; statement of ingredients.
####### ingredient

(b) The termapplies to any substance in the drug, whether added to the formulation as a single substance or in admixture with other substances.

(c) The labeling of a drug may be misleading by reason (among other reasons) of:

(1) The order in which the names of the ingredients present in the drug appear in the labeling, or the relative prominence otherwise given such names.

(2) Failure to reveal the proportion of, or other fact with respect to, an ingredient present in such drug, when such proportion or other fact is material in the light of the representation that such ingredient is present in such drug.

(3) The employment of a fanciful proprietary name for a drug or ingredient in such a manner as to imply that the drug or ingredient has some unique effectiveness or composition when, in fact, the drug or ingredient is a common substance, the limitations of which are readily recognized when the drug or ingredient is listed by its established name.

(4) The featuring in the labeling of inert or inactive ingredients in a manner that creates an impression of value greater than their true functional role in the formulation.

(5) Designation of a drug or ingredient by a proprietary name that, because of similarity in spelling or pronunciation, may be confused with the proprietary name or the established name of a different drug or ingredient.

(d)(1) If the drug is in tablet or capsule form or other unit dosage form, any statement of the quantity of an ingredient contained therein shall express the quantity of such ingredient in each such unit. If the drug is not in unit dosage form, any statement of the quantity of an ingredient contained therein shall express the amount of such ingredient in a specified unit of weight or measure of the drug, or the percentage of such ingredient in such drug. Such statements shall be in terms that are informative to licensed practitioners, in the case of a prescription drug, and to the layman, in the case of a nonprescription drug.
