
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Labeling Provisions
###### ยง 201.20 Declaration of presence of FD&C Yellow No. 5 and/or FD&C Yellow No. 6 in certain drugs for human use.

(a) The label for over-the-counter and prescription drug products intended for human use administered orally, nasally, rectally, or vaginally, or for use in the area of the eye, containing FD&C Yellow No. 5 as a color additive using the names FD&C Yellow No. 5 and tartrazine. The labeling for over-the-counter and prescription drug products shall bear a statement such as "Contains FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) as a color additive" or "Contains color additives including FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine)". The labels of certain drug products subject to this labeling requirement that are also cosmetics, such as antibacterial mouthwashes and fluoride toothpastes, need not comply with this requirement provided they comply with the requirements of ยง 701.3 of this chapter.

(b) For prescription drugs for human use containing FD&C Yellow No. 5 that are administered orally, nasally, vaginally, or rectally, or for use in the area of the eye, the labeling required by ยง 201.100(d) shall bear the warning statement "This product contains FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) which may cause allergic-type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible persons. Although the overall incidence of FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity." This warning statement shall appear in the "Precautions" section of the labeling.

(c) The label for over-the-counter drug products intended for human use administered orally, nasally, rectally, or vaginally containing FD&C Yellow No. 6 shall specifically declare the presence of FD&C Yellow No. 6 by listing the color additive using the name FD&C Yellow No. 6. The labeling for over-the-counter and prescription drug products containing FD&C Yellow No. 6 shall declare the presence of FD&C Yellow No. 6. The labels of certain drug products subject to this labeling requirement that are also cosmetics, such as antibacterial mouthwashes and fluoride toothpastes, need not comply with this requirement provided they comply with the requirements of ยง 701.3 of this chapter.
