
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Labeling Provisions
###### ยง 201.25 Bar code label requirements.
####### Can a drug be exempted from the bar code requirement?

(d)(1) On our own initiative, or in response to a written request from a manufacturer, repacker, relabeler or private label distributor, we may exempt a drug product from the bar code label requirements set forth in this section. The exemption request must document why:

(i) compliance with the bar code requirement would adversely affect the safety, effectiveness, purity or potency of the drug or not be technologically feasible, and the concerns underlying the request could not reasonably be addressed by measures such as package redesign or use of overwraps; or

(ii) an alternative regulatory program or method of product use renders the bar code unnecessary for patient safety.

(2) Requests for an exemption should be sent to the Office of Compliance, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 51, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002 (requests involving a drug product or biological product regulated by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research) or to the Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002 (requests involving a biological product regulated by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research).
