
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart B - Labeling Requirements for Prescription Drugs and/or Insulin
###### ยง 201.56 Requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products.
####### Labeling requirements for new and more recently approved prescription drug products.

(d)This paragraph applies only to prescription drug products described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and must be implemented according to the schedule specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Prescription drug labeling described in ยง 201.100(d) must contain the specific information required under ยง 201.57(a), (b), and (c) under the following headings and subheadings and in the following order:

(2) Additional nonstandard subheadings that are used to enhance labeling organization, presentation, or ease of use (e.g., for individual warnings or precautions, or for each drug interaction) must be assigned a decimal number that corresponds to their placement in labeling. The decimal numbers must be consistent with the standardized identifying numbers listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (e.g., subheadings added to the "Warnings and Precautions" section must be numbered 5.1, 5.2, and so on).

(3) Any reference in Highlights to information appearing in the full prescribing information must be accompanied by the identifying number (in parentheses) corresponding to the location of the information in the full prescribing information.

(4) Omit clearly inapplicable sections, subsections, or specific information. If sections or subsections required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section are omitted from the full prescribing information, the heading "Full Prescribing Information: Contents" must be followed by an asterisk and the following statement must appear at the end of Contents: "* Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed."

(5) Any risk information that is required under ยง 201.57(c)(9)(iv) is considered "appropriate pediatric contraindications, warnings, or precautions" within the meaning of section 505A(l)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 355A(l)(2)), whether such information appears in the "Contraindications," "Warnings and Precautions," or "Use in Specific Populations" section of labeling.
