
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart B - Labeling Requirements for Prescription Drugs and/or Insulin
###### ยง 201.57 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products described in ยง 201.56(b)(1).
####### Risk summary.,i.e.,,1,2,Name of drug

(B)The Risk Summary must contain risk statement(s) based on data from all relevant sources (human, animal, and/or pharmacologic) that describe, for the drug, the risk of adverse developmental outcomes (structural abnormalities, embryo-fetal and/or infant mortality, functional impairment, alterations to growth). When multiple data sources are available, the statements must be presented in the following order: Human, animal, pharmacologic. The source(s) of the data must be stated. The labeling must state the percentage range of live births in the United States with a major birth defect and the percentage range of pregnancies in the United States that end in miscarriage, regardless of drug exposure. If such information is available for the population(s) for which the drug is labeled, it must also be included. When use of a drug is contraindicated during pregnancy, this information must be stated first in the Risk Summary. When applicable, risk statements as described in paragraphs (c)(9)(i)(B)() and () of this section must include a cross-reference to additional details in the relevant portion of the "Data" subheading in the "Pregnancy" subsection of the labeling. If data demonstrate that a drug is not systemically absorbed following a particular route of administration, the Risk Summary must contain only the following statement: "() is not absorbed systemically following (route of administration), and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug."
