
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart B - Labeling Requirements for Prescription Drugs and/or Insulin
###### ยง 201.57 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products described in ยง 201.56(b)(1).
####### i,Presence of drug in human milk.,are

()The Risk Summary must state whether the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) are present in human milk. If there are no data to assess this, the Risk Summary must so state. If studies demonstrate that the drug and/or its active metabolite(s)not detectable in human milk, the Risk Summary must state the limits of the assay used. If studies demonstrate the presence of the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) in human milk, the Risk Summary must state the concentration of the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) in human milk and the actual or estimated daily dose for an infant fed exclusively with human milk. The actual or estimated amount of the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) ingested by the infant must be compared to the labeled infant or pediatric dose, if available, or to the maternal dose. If studies demonstrate the presence of the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) in human milk but the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) are not expected to be systemically bioavailable to the breast-fed child, the Risk Summary must describe the disposition of the drug and/or its active metabolite(s). If only animal lactation data are available, the Risk Summary must state only whether or not the drug and/or its active metabolite(s) were detected in animal milk and specify the animal species.
