
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart B - Labeling Requirements for Prescription Drugs and/or Insulin
###### ยง 201.57 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products described in ยง 201.56(b)(1).
####### 8.4 Pediatric use.,pediatric population(s),pediatric patient(s)

(iv)(A) Pediatric population(s)/pediatric patient(s): For the purposes of paragraphs (c)(9)(iv)(B) through (c)(9)(iv)(H) of this section, the termsandare defined as the pediatric age group, from birth to 16 years, including age groups often called neonates, infants, children, and adolescents.

(B) If there is a specific pediatric indication different from those approved for adults that is supported by adequate and well-controlled studies in the pediatric population, it must be described under the "Indications and Usage" section, and appropriate pediatric dosage information must be given under the "Dosage and Administration" section. The "Pediatric use" subsection must cite any limitations on the pediatric indication, need for specific monitoring, specific hazards associated with use of the drug in any subsets of the pediatric population (e.g., neonates), differences between pediatric and adult responses to the drug, and other information related to the safe and effective pediatric use of the drug. Data summarized in this subsection should be discussed in more detail, if appropriate, under the "Clinical Pharmacology" or "Clinical Studies" section. As appropriate, this information must also be contained in the "Contraindications" and/or "Warnings and Precautions" section(s).

(C) If there are specific statements on pediatric use of the drug for an indication also approved for adults that are based on adequate and well-controlled studies in the pediatric population, they must be summarized in the "Pediatric use" subsection and discussed in more detail, if appropriate, under the "Clinical Pharmacology" and "Clinical Studies" sections. Appropriate pediatric dosage must be given under the "Dosage and Administration" section. The "Pediatric use" subsection of the labeling must also cite any limitations on the pediatric use statement, need for specific monitoring, specific hazards associated with use of the drug in any subsets of the pediatric population (e.g., neonates), differences between pediatric and adult responses to the drug, and other information related to the safe and effective pediatric use of the drug. As appropriate, this information must also be contained in the "Contraindications" and/or "Warnings and Precautions" section(s).
