
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart B - Labeling Requirements for Prescription Drugs and/or Insulin
###### ยง 201.57 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products described in ยง 201.56(b)(1).
####### 8.5 Geriatric use.

(v)(A) A specific geriatric indication, if any, that is supported by adequate and well-controlled studies in the geriatric population must be described under the "Indications and Usage" section, and appropriate geriatric dosage must be stated under the "Dosage and Administration" section. The "Geriatric use" subsection must cite any limitations on the geriatric indication, need for specific monitoring, specific hazards associated with the geriatric indication, and other information related to the safe and effective use of the drug in the geriatric population. Unless otherwise noted, information contained in the "Geriatric use" subsection must pertain to use of the drug in persons 65 years of age and older. Data summarized in this subsection must be discussed in more detail, if appropriate, under "Clinical Pharmacology" or the "Clinical Studies" section. As appropriate, this information must also be contained in the "Warnings and Precautions" and/or "Contraindications" section(s).

(B) Specific statements on geriatric use of the drug for an indication approved for adults generally, as distinguished from a specific geriatric indication, must be contained in the "Geriatric use" subsection and must reflect all information available to the sponsor that is relevant to the appropriate use of the drug in elderly patients. This information includes detailed results from controlled studies that are available to the sponsor and pertinent information from well-documented studies obtained from a literature search. Controlled studies include those that are part of the marketing application and other relevant studies available to the sponsor that have not been previously submitted in the investigational new drug application, new drug application, biologics license application, or a supplement or amendment to one of these applications (e.g., postmarketing studies or adverse drug reaction reports). The "Geriatric use" subsection must contain the following statement(s) or reasonable alternative, as applicable, taking into account available information:
