
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### ยง 201.62 Declaration of net quantity of contents.
####### Provided,

(a) The label of an over-the-counter drug in package form shall bear a declaration of the net quantity of contents. This shall be expressed in the terms of weight, measure, numerical count, or a combination or numerical count and weight, measure, or size. The statement of quantity of drugs in tablet, capsule, ampule, or other unit form and the quantity of devices shall be expressed in terms of numerical count; the statement of quantity for drugs in other dosage forms shall be in terms of weight if the drug is solid, semisolid, or viscous, or in terms of fluid measure if the drug is liquid. The drug quantity statement shall be augmented when necessary to give accurate information as to the strength of such drug in the package; for example, to differentiate between several strengths of the same drug "100 tablets, 5 grains each" or "100 capsules, 125 milligrams each" or "100 capsules, 250 milligrams each":That:

(1) In the case of a firmly established, general consumer usage and trade custom of declaring the quantity of a drug in terms of linear measure or measure of area, such respective term may be used. Such term shall be augmented when necessary for accuracy of information by a statement of the weight, measure, or size of the individual units or of the entire drug; for example, the net quantity of adhesive tape in package form shall be expressed in terms of linear measure augmented by a statement of its width.

(2) Whenever the Commissioner determines for a specific packaged drug that an existing practice of declaring net quantity of contents by weight, measure, numerical count, or a combination of these does not facilitate value comparisons by consumers, he shall by regulation designate the appropriate term or terms to be used for such article.

(b) Statements of weight of the contents shall be expressed in terms of avoirdupois pound and ounce. A statement of liquid measure of the contents shall be expressed in terms of the U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches and quart, pint, and fluid-ounce subdivisions thereof, and shall express the volume at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C). See also paragraph (p) of this section.

(c) The declaration may contain common or decimal fractions. A common fraction shall be in terms of halves, quarters, eights, sixteenths, or thirty-seconds; except that if there exists a firmly established, general consumer usage and trade custom of employing different common fractions in the net quantity declaration of a particular commodity, they may be employed. A common fraction shall be reduced to its lowest terms; a decimal fraction shall not be carried out to more than two places. A statement that includes small fractions of an ounce shall be deemed to permit smaller variations than one which does not include such fractions.

(d) The declaration shall be located on the principal display panel of the label, and with respect to packages bearing alternate principal panels it shall be duplicated on each principal display panel.
