
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### ยง 201.62 Declaration of net quantity of contents.
####### net weight,net,net contents

(2) The declaration may appear in more than one line. The termshall be used when stating the net quantity of contents in terms of weight. Use of the termsorin terms of fluid measure or numerical count is optional. It is sufficient to distinguish avoirdupois ounce from fluid ounce through association of terms; for example, "Net wt. 6 oz" or "6 oz net wt.," and "6 fl oz" or "net contents 6 fl oz".

(j) On packages containing 4 pounds or 1 gallon or more and labeled in terms of weight or fluid measure, the declaration shall be expressed in pounds for weight units with any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pound; in the case of fluid measure, it shall be expressed in the largest whole unit (gallons, followed by common or decimal fractions of a gallon or by the next smaller whole unit or units (quarts or quarts and pints)) with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart; see paragraph (k)(5) of this section.

(k) Examples:

(1) A declaration of 1pounds weight shall be expressed as "Net wt. 24 oz (1 lb 8 oz)," or "Net wt. 24 oz (1lb)" or "Net wt. 24 oz (1.5 lb)".

(2) A declaration of three-fourths pound avoirdupois weight shall be expressed as "Net wt. 12 oz".

(3) A declaration of 1 quart liquid measure shall be expressed as "Net contents 32 fl oz (1 qt)" or "32 fl oz (1 qt)".

(4) A declaration of 1quarts liquid measure shall be expressed as "Net contents 56 fl oz (1 qt 1 pt 8 oz)" or "Net contents 56 fl oz (1 qt 1.5 pt)," but not in terms of quart and ounce such as "Net 56 fl oz (1 qt 24 oz)."

(5) A declaration of 2gallons liquid measure shall be expressed as "Net contents 2 gal 2 qt," "Net contents 2.5 gallons," or "Net contents 2gal" but not as "2 gal 4 pt".

(l) For quantities, the following abbreviations and none other may be employed. Periods and plural forms are optional:

(m) On packages labeled in terms of linear measure, the declaration shall be expressed both in terms of inches and, if applicable (1 foot or more), the largest whole units (yards, yards and feet, feet). The declaration in terms of the largest whole units shall be in parentheses following the declaration in terms of inches and any remainder shall be in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot or yard; if applicable, as in the case of adhesive tape, the initial declaration in linear inches shall be preceded by a statement of the width. Examples of linear measure are "86 inches (2 yd 1 ft 2 in)," "90 inches (2yd)," "30 inches (2.5 ft)," "inch by 36 in (1 yd)," etc.

(n) On packages labeled in terms of area measure, the declaration shall be expressed both in terms of square inches and, if applicable (1 square foot or more), the largest whole square unit (square yards, square yards and square feet, square feet). The declaration in terms of the largest whole units shall be in parentheses following the declaration in terms of square inches and any remainder shall be in terms of square inches or common or decimal fractions of the square foot or square yard; for example, "158 sq inches (1 sq ft 14 sq in)."

(o) Nothing in this section shall prohibit supplemental statements at locations other than the principal display panel(s) describing in nondeceptive terms the net quantity of contents, provided that such supplemental statements of net quantity of contents shall not include any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure, or count that tends to exaggerate the amount of the drug contained in the package; for example, "giant pint" and "full quart." Dual or combination declarations of net quantity of contents as provided for in paragraphs (a) and (i) of this section are not regarded as supplemental net quantity statements and shall be located on the principal display panel.

(p) A separate statement of net quantity of contents in terms of the metric system of weight or measure is not regarded as a supplemental statement and an accurate statement of the net quantity of contents in terms of the metric system of weight or measure may also appear on the principal display panel or on other panels.

(q) The declaration of net quantity of contents shall express an accurate statement of the quantity of contents of the package. Reasonable variations caused by loss or gain of moisture during the course of good distribution practice or by unavoidable deviations in good manufacturing practice will be recognized. Variations from stated quantity of contents shall not be unreasonably large.

(r) A drug shall be exempt from compliance with the net quantity declaration required by this section if it is an ointment labeled "sample," "physician's sample," or a substantially similar statement and the contents of the package do not exceed 8 grams.
