
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### ยง 201.63 Pregnancy/breast-feeding warning.

(a) The labeling for all over-the-counter (OTC) drug products that are intended for systemic absorption, unless specifically exempted, shall contain a general warning under the heading "Warning" (or "Warnings" if it appears with additional warning statements) as follows: "If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use." [first four words of this statement in bold type] In addition to the written warning, a symbol that conveys the intent of the warning may be used in labeling.

(b) Where a specific warning relating to use during pregnancy or while nursing has been established for a particular drug product in a new drug application (NDA) or for a product covered by an OTC drug final monograph in part 330 of this chapter, the specific warning shall be used in place of the warning in paragraph (a) of this section, unless otherwise stated in the NDA or in the final OTC drug monograph.

(c) The following OTC drugs are exempt from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Drugs that are intended to benefit the fetus or nursing infant during the period of pregnancy or nursing.

(2) Drugs that are labeled exclusively for pediatric use.

(d) The Food and Drug Administration will grant an exemption from paragraph (a) of this section where appropriate upon petition under the provisions of ยง 10.30 of this chapter. Decisions with respect to requests for exemptions shall be maintained in a permanent file for public review by the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.

(e) The labeling of orally or rectally administered OTC aspirin and aspirin-containing drug products must bear a warning that immediately follows the general warning identified in paragraph (a) of this section. The warning shall be as follows:
