
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### ยง 201.64 Sodium labeling.
####### sodium free, very low sodium,,low sodium

(h) The termsandshall be in print size and style no larger than the product's statement of identity and shall not be unduly prominent in print size or style compared to the statement of identity.

(i) Any product subject to this paragraph that contains sodium bicarbonate, sodium phosphate, or sodium biphosphate as an active ingredient for oral ingestion and that is not labeled as required by this paragraph and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after April 22, 1997, is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502 (a) and (f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act).

(j) Any product subject to paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section that is not labeled as required and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after the following dates is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502(a) and (f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(1) As of the date of approval of the application for any single entity and combination products subject to drug marketing applications approved on or after April 23, 2004.

(2) Septemeber 24, 2005, for all OTC drug products subject to any OTC drug monograph, not yet the subject of any OTC drug monograph, or subject to drug marketing applications approved before April 23, 2004.

(k) The labeling of OTC drug products intended for rectal administration containing dibasic sodium phosphate and/or monobasic sodium phosphate shall contain the sodium content per delivered dose if the sodium content is 5 milligrams or more. The sodium content shall be expressed in milligrams or grams. If less than 1 gram, milligrams should be used. The sodium content shall be rounded-off to the nearest whole number if expressed in milligrams (or nearest tenth of a gram if expressed in grams). The sodium content per delivered dose shall follow the heading "Other information" as stated in ยง 201.66(c)(7). Any product subject to this paragraph that contains dibasic sodium phosphate and/or monobasic sodium phosphate as an active ingredient intended for rectal administration and that is not labeled as required by this paragraph and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after November 29, 2005, is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502(a) and (f) of the act.
