
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### § 201.66 Format and content requirements for over-the-counter (OTC) drug product labeling.
####### Allergic reaction and asthma alert warnings.

(B)Allergic reaction warnings set forth in any applicable OTC drug monograph or approved drug application for any product that requires a separate allergy warning. This warning shall follow the subheading "Allergy alert:" The asthma alert warning set forth in §§ 341.76(c)(5) and 341.76(c)(6) of this chapter. This warning shall follow the subheading "Asthma alert:"

(C) Flammability warning, with appropriate flammability signal word(s) (e.g., §§ 341.74(c)(5)(iii), 344.52(c), 358.150(c), and 358.550(c) of this chapter). This warning shall follow a subheading containing the appropriate flammability signal word(s) described in an applicable OTC drug monograph or approved drug application.

(D) Water soluble gums warning set forth in § 201.319. This warning shall follow the subheading "Choking:"

(E) Liver warning set forth in § 201.326(a)(1)(iii) and/or stomach bleeding warning set forth in § 201.326(a)(2)(iii). The liver warning shall follow the subheading "Liver warning:" and the stomach bleeding warning shall follow the subheading "Stomach bleeding warning:"

(F) Sore throat warning set forth in § 201.315. This warning shall follow the subheading "Sore throat warning:"

(G) Warning for drug products containing sodium phosphates set forth in § 201.307(b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii). This warning shall follow the subheading "Dosage warning:"

(H) Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) warning for vaginal contraceptive and spermicide drug products containing nonoxynol 9 set forth in § 201.325(b)(2). This warning shall follow the subheading "Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert:"

(iii) "Do not use" [in bold type], followed by all contraindications for use with the product. These contraindications are absolute and are intended for situations in which consumers should not use the product unless a prior diagnosis has been established by a doctor or for situations in which certain consumers should not use the product under any circumstances regardless of whether a doctor or health professional is consulted.

(iv) "Ask a doctor before use if you have" [in bold type] or, for products labeled only for use in children under 12 years of age, "Ask a doctor before use if the child has" [in bold type], followed by all warnings for persons with certain preexisting conditions (excluding pregnancy) and all warnings for persons experiencing certain symptoms. The warnings under this heading are those intended only for situations in which consumers should not use the product until a doctor is consulted.

(v) "Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are" [in bold type] or, for products labeled only for use in children under 12 years of age, "Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is" [in bold type], followed by all drug-drug and drug-food interaction warnings.

(vi) "When using this product" [in bold type], followed by the side effects that the consumer may experience, and the substances (e.g., alcohol) or activities (e.g., operating machinery, driving a car, warnings set forth in § 369.21 of this chapter for drugs in dispensers pressurized by gaseous propellants) to avoid while using the product.

(vii) "Stop use and ask a doctor if" [in bold type], followed by any signs of toxicity or other reactions that would necessitate immediately discontinuing use of the product. For all OTC drug products under an approved drug application whose packaging does not include a toll-free number through which consumers can report complaints to the manufacturer or distributor of the drug product, the following text shall immediately follow the subheading: "[Bullet] side effects occur. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088." The telephone number must appear in a minimum 6-point bold letter height or type size.

(viii) Any required warnings in an applicable OTC drug monograph, other OTC drug regulations, or approved drug application that do not fit within one of the categories listed in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (c)(5)(vii), (c)(5)(ix), and (c)(5)(x) of this section.

(ix) The pregnancy/breast-feeding warning set forth in § 201.63(a); the third trimester warning set forth in § 201.63(e) for products containing aspirin or carbaspirin calcium; the third trimester warning set forth in approved drug applications for products containing ketoprofen, naproxen sodium, and ibuprofen (not intended exclusively for use in children).

(x) The "Keep out of reach of children" warning and the accidental overdose/ingestion warning set forth in § 330.1(g) of this chapter.

(6) "Directions", followed by the directions for use described in an applicable OTC drug monograph or approved drug application.

(7) "Other information", followed by additional information that is not included under paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(6), (c)(8), and (c)(9) of this section, but which is required by or is made optional under an applicable OTC drug monograph, other OTC drug regulation, or is included in the labeling of an approved drug application.

(i) Required information about certain ingredients in OTC drug products (e.g., sodium in § 201.64(b), calcium in § 201.70(b), magnesium in § 201.71(b), and potassium in § 201.72(b)) shall appear as follows: "each (insert appropriate dosage unit) contains:" [in bold type (insert name(s) of ingredient(s) (in alphabetical order) and the quantity of each ingredient). This information shall be the first statement under this heading.

(ii) The phenylalanine/aspartame content required by § 201.21(b), if applicable, shall appear as the next item of information.

(iii) Additional information that is authorized to appear under this heading shall appear as the next item(s) of information. There is no required order for this subsequent information.

(8) "Inactive ingredients", followed by a listing of the established name of each inactive ingredient. If the product is an OTC drug product that is not also a cosmetic product, then the inactive ingredients shall be listed in alphabetical order. If the product is an OTC drug product that is also a cosmetic product, then the inactive ingredients shall be listed as set forth in § 701.3(a) or (f) of this chapter, the names of cosmetic ingredients shall be determined in accordance with § 701.3(c) of this chapter, and the provisions in § 701.3(e), (g), (h), (l), (m), (n), and (o) of this chapter and § 720.8 of this chapter may also apply, as appropriate. If there is a difference in the labeling provisions in this § 201.66 and §§ 701.3 and 720.8 of this chapter, the labeling provisions in this § 201.66 shall be used.

(9) "Questions?" or "Questions or comments?", followed by the telephone number of a source to answer questions about the product. It is recommended that the days of the week and times of the day when a person is available to respond to questions also be included. A graphic of a telephone or telephone receiver may appear before the heading. The telephone number must appear in a minimum 6-point bold type.
