
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### § 201.80 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products; older drugs not described in § 201.56(b)(1).
####### Clinical Pharmacology.

(b)(1) Under this section heading, the labeling shall contain a concise factual summary of the clinical pharmacology and actions of the drug in humans. The summary may include information based on in vitro and/or animal data if the information is essential to a description of the biochemical and/or physiological mode of action of the drug or is otherwise pertinent to human therapeutics. Pharmacokinetic information that is important to safe and effective use of the drug is required, if known, e.g., degree and rate of absorption, pathways of biotransformation, percentage of dose as unchanged drug and metabolites, rate or half-time of elimination, concentration in body fluids associated with therapeutic and/or toxic effects, degree of binding to plasma proteins, degree of uptake by a particular organ or in the fetus, and passage across the blood brain barrier. Inclusion of pharmacokinetic information is restricted to that which relates to clinical use of the drug. If the pharmacological mode of action of the drug is unknown or if important metabolic or pharmacokinetic data in humans are unavailable, the labeling shall contain a statement about the lack of information.

(2) Data that demonstrate activity or effectiveness in in vitro or animal tests and that have not been shown by adequate and well-controlled clinical studies to be pertinent to clinical use may be included under this section of the labeling only under the following circumstances:

(i) In vitro data for anti-infective drugs may be included if the data are immediately preceded by the statement "The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown."

(ii) For other classes of drugs, in vitro and animal data that have not been shown by adequate and well-controlled clinical studies, as defined in § 314.126(b) of this chapter, to be pertinent to clinical use may be used only if a waiver is granted under § 201.58 or § 314.126(c) of this chapter.
