
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### § 201.80 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products; older drugs not described in § 201.56(b)(1).
####### Indications and Usage.

(c)(1) Under this section heading, the labeling shall state that:

(i) The drug is indicated in the treatment, prevention, or diagnosis of a recognized disease or condition, e.g., penicillin is indicated for the treatment of pneumonia due to susceptible pneumococci; and/or

(ii) The drug is indicated for the treatment, prevention, or diagnosis of an important manifestation of a disease or condition, e.g., chlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of edema in patients with congestive heart failure; and/or

(iii) The drug is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with a disease or syndrome, e.g., chlorpheniramine is indicated for the symptomatic relief of nasal congestion in patients with vasomotor rhinitis; and/or

(iv) The drug, if used for a particular indication only in conjuction with a primary mode of therapy, e.g., diet, surgery, or some other drug, is an adjunct to the mode of therapy.

(2)(i) For drug products other than biological products, all indications listed in this section must be supported by substantial evidence of effectiveness based on adequate and well-controlled studies as defined in § 314.126(b) of this chapter unless the requirement is waived under § 201.58 or § 314.126(c) of this chapter. Indications or uses must not be implied or suggested in other sections of labeling if not included in this section.

(ii) For biological products, all indications listed in this section must be supported by substantial evidence of effectiveness. Indications or uses must not be implied or suggested in other sections of labeling if not included in this section.

(3) This section of the labeling shall also contain the following additional information:

(i) If evidence is available to support the safety and effectiveness of the drug only in selected subgroups of the larger population with a disease, syndrome, or symptom under consideration, e.g., patients with mild disease or patients in a special age group, the labeling shall describe the available evidence and state the limitations of usefulness of the drug. The labeling shall also identify specific tests needed for selection or monitoring of the patients who need the drug, e.g., microbe susceptibility tests. Information on the approximate kind, degree, and duration of improvement to be anticipated shall be stated if available and shall be based on substantial evidence derived from adequate and well-controlled studies as defined in § 314.126(b) of this chapter unless the requirement is waived under § 201.58 or § 314.126(c) of this chapter. If the information is relevant to the recommended intervals between doses, the usual duration of treatment, or any modification of dosage, it shall be stated in the "Dosage and Administration" section of the labeling and referenced in this section.

(ii) If safety considerations are such that the drug should be reserved for certain situations, e.g., cases refractory to other drugs, this information shall be stated in this section.

(iii) If there are specific conditions that should be met before the drug is used on a long-term basis, e.g., demonstration of responsiveness to the drug in a short-term trial, the labeling shall identify the conditions; or, if the indications for long-term use are different from those for short-term use, the labeling shall identify the specific indications for each use.

(iv) If there is a common belief that the drug may be effective for a certain use or if there is a common use of the drug for a condition, but the preponderance of evidence related to the use or condition shows that the drug is ineffective, the Food and Drug Administration may require that the labeling state that there is a lack of evidence that the drug is effective for that use or condition.

(v) Any statements comparing the safety or effectiveness, either greater or less, of the drug with other agents for the same indication shall be supported by adequate and well-controlled studies as defined in § 314.126(b) of this chapter unless this requirement is waived under § 201.58 or § 314.126(c) of this chapter.
