
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### ยง 201.80 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products; older drugs not described in ยง 201.56(b)(1).
####### Pediatric use.,pediatric population(s),pediatric patient(s)

(9)(i) Pediatric population(s)/pediatric patient(s): For the purposes of paragraphs (f)(9)(ii) through (f)(9)(viii) of this section, the termsandare defined as the pediatric age group, from birth to 16 years, including age groups often called neonates, infants, children, and adolescents.

(ii) If there is a specific pediatric indication (i.e., an indication different from those approved for adults) that is supported by adequate and well-controlled studies in the pediatric population, it shall be described under the "Indications and Usage" section of the labeling, and appropriate pediatric dosage information shall be given under the "Dosage and Administration" section of the labeling. The "Pediatric use" subsection shall cite any limitations on the pediatric indication, need for specific monitoring, specific hazards associated with use of the drug in any subsets of the pediatric population (e.g., neonates), differences between pediatric and adult responses to the drug, and other information related to the safe and effective pediatric use of the drug. Data summarized in this subsection of the labeling should be discussed in more detail, if appropriate, under the "Clinical Pharmacology" or "Clinical Studies" section. As appropriate, this information shall also be contained in the "Contraindications," "Warnings," and elsewhere in the "Precautions" sections.

(iii) If there are specific statements on pediatric use of the drug for an indication also approved for adults that are based on adequate and well-controlled studies in the pediatric population, they shall be summarized in the "Pediatric use" subsection of the labeling and discussed in more detail, if appropriate, under the "Clinical Pharmacology" and "Clinical Studies" sections. Appropriate pediatric dosage shall be given under the "Dosage and Administration" section of the labeling. The "Pediatric use" subsection of the labeling shall also cite any limitations on the pediatric use statement, need for specific monitoring, specific hazards associated with use of the drug in any subsets of the pediatric population (e.g., neonates), differences between pediatric and adult responses to the drug, and other information related to the safe and effective pediatric use of the drug. As appropriate, this information shall also be contained in the "Contraindications," "Warnings," and elsewhere in the "Precautions" sections.
