
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### ยง 201.80 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products; older drugs not described in ยง 201.56(b)(1).
####### Overdosage.

(i)Under this section heading, the labeling shall describe the signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings of acute overdosage and the general principles of treatment. This section shall be based on human data, when available. If human data are unavailable, appropriate animal and in vitro data may be used. Specific information shall be provided about the following:

(1) Signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings associated with an overdosage of the drug.

(2) Complications that can occur with the drug (for example, organ toxicity or delayed acidosis).

(3) Oral LDof the drug in animals; concentrations of the drug in biologic fluids associated with toxicity and/or death; physiologic variables influencing excretion of the drug, such as urine pH; and factors that influence the dose response relationship of the drug, such as tolerance. The pharmacokinetic data given in the "Clinical Pharmacology" section also may be referenced here, if applicable to overdoses.

(4) The amount of the drug in a single dose that is ordinarily associated with symptoms of overdosage and the amount of the drug in a single dose that is likely to be life-threatening.

(5) Whether the drug is dialyzable.

(6) Recommended general treatment procedures and specific measures for support of vital functions, such as proven antidotes, gastric lavage, and forced diuresis. Unqualified recommendations for which data are lacking with the specific drug or class of drugs, especially treatment using another drug (for example, central nervous system stimulants, respiratory stimulants) may not be stated unless specific data or scientific rationale exists to support safe and effective use.
