
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart C - Labeling Requirements for Over-the-Counter Drugs
###### § 201.80 Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drug and biological products; older drugs not described in § 201.56(b)(1).
####### "Clinical Studies" and "References".

(m)These sections may appear in labeling in the place of a detailed discussion of a subject that is of limited interest but nonetheless important. A reference to a specific important clinical study may be made in any section of the format required under §§ 201.56 and 201.57 if the study is essential to an understandable presentation of the available information. References may appear in sections of the labeling format, other than the "Clinical Studies" or "References" section, in rare circumstances only. A clinical study or reference may be cited in prescription drug labeling only under the following conditions:

(1)(i) If the clinical study is cited in the labeling in place of a detailed discussion of data and information concerning an indication for use of the drug, the clinical study must constitute an adequate and well-controlled study as described in § 314.126(b) of this chapter, except for biological products, and must not imply or suggest indications or uses or dosing regimens not stated in the "Indications and Usage" or "Dosage and Administration" section.

(ii) When prescription drug labeling must summarize or otherwise rely on a recommendation by an authoritative scientific body, or on a standardized methodology, scale, or technique, because the information is important to prescribing decisions, the labeling may include a reference to the source of the information.

(2) If the clinical study or reference is cited in the labeling in the place of a detailed discussion of data and information concerning a risk or risks from the use of the drug, the risk or risks shall also be identified or discussed in the appropriate section of the labeling for the drug.
