
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart G - Specific Labeling Requirements for Specific Drug Products
###### ยง 201.325 Over-the-counter drugs for vaginal contraceptive and spermicide use containing nonoxynol 9 as the active ingredient; required warnings and labeling information.

(a) Studies indicate that use of vaginal contraceptive drug products containing nonoxynol 9 does not protect against infection from the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), or against the transmission of other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). Studies also indicate that use of vaginal contraceptive drug products containing nonoxynol 9 can increase vaginal irritation, such as the disruption of the vaginal epithelium, and also can cause epithelial disruption when used in the rectum. These effects may increase the risk of transmission of the AIDS virus (HIV) from an infected partner. Therefore, consumers should be warned that these products do not protect against the transmission of the AIDS virus (HIV) or other STDs, that use of these products can increase vaginal and rectal irritation, which may increase the risk of getting the AIDS virus (HIV) from an HIV infected partner, and that the products are not for rectal use. Consumers should also be warned that these products should not be used by persons who have HIV/AIDS or are at high risk for HIV/AIDS.

(b) The labeling of OTC vaginal contraceptive and spermicide drug products containing nonoxynol 9 as the active ingredient, whether subject to the ongoing OTC drug review or an approved drug application, must contain the following warnings under the heading "Warnings," in accordance with 21 CFR 201.66.

(1) "[bullet] For vaginal use only [bullet] Not for rectal (anal) use" [both warnings in bold type].

(2) "Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert [in bold type]: This product does not [word "not" in bold type] protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs and may increase the risk of getting HIV from an infected partner".

(3) "Do not use" [in bold type] if you or your sex partner has HIV/AIDS. If you do not know if you or your sex partner is infected, choose another form of birth control".

(4) "When using this product [in bold type] [optional, bullet] you may get vaginal irritation (burning, itching, or a rash)".

(5) "Stop use and ask a doctor if [in bold type] [optional, bullet] you or your partner get burning, itching, a rash, or other irritation of the vagina or penis".

(c) The labeling of this product states under the "Other information" section of the Drug Facts labeling in accordance with ยง 201.66(c)(7), "[bullet] when used correctly every time you have sex, latex condoms greatly reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

(d) The labeling of this product includes the following statements either on the outside container or wrapper of the retail package, under the "Other information" section of the Drug Facts labeling in accordance with ยง 201.66(c)(7), or in a package insert:

(1) "[bullet] studies have raised safety concerns that products containing the spermicide nonoxynol 9 can irritate the vagina and rectum. Sometimes this irritation has no symptoms. This irritation may increase the risk of getting HIV/AIDS from an infected partner".

(2) "[bullet] you can use nonoxynol 9 for birth control with or without a diaphragm or condom if you have sex with only one partner who is not infected with HIV and who has no other sexual partners or HIV risk factors".

(3) "[bullet] use a latex condom without nonoxynol 9 if you or your sex partner has HIV/AIDS, multiple sex partners, or other HIV risk factors".

(4) "[bullet] ask a health professional if you have questions about your best birth control and STD prevention methods".

(e) Any drug product subject to this section that is not labeled as required and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after June 19, 2008, is misbranded under section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 352), is a new drug under section 505 of the act (21 U.S.C. 355), and is subject to regulatory action.
