
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart G - Specific Labeling Requirements for Specific Drug Products
###### ยง 201.326 Over-the-counter drug products containing internal analgesic/antipyretic active ingredients; required warnings and other labeling.
####### For products labeled for adults only.

(iii)The labeling of the product states the following warnings under the heading "Warnings":

(A) The stomach bleeding warning states "Stomach bleeding warning [heading in bold type]: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you [bullet] are age 60 or older [bullet] have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems [bullet] take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug [bullet] take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) [bullet] have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product [bullet] take more or for a longer time than directed". This "Stomach bleeding" warning must appear after the "Reye's syndrome" and "Allergy alert" warnings in ยง 201.66(c)(5)(ii)(A) and (c)(5)(ii)(B). For products that contain both acetaminophen and aspirin, the acetaminophen "Liver" warning in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section must appear before the "Stomach bleeding" warning in this paragraph. If there is an outer and immediate container of a retail package, this warning must appear on both the outer and immediate containers. If the immediate container is a blister card, the warning must appear on the blister card and remain intact and readable when drug product is removed from the blister card. The warning is not required to be included on each blister unit.

(B) "Ask a doctor before use if [bullet] stomach bleeding warning applies to you [bullet] you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn [bullet] you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease [bullet] you are taking a diuretic".

(C) "Stop use and ask a doctor if [bullet] you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding:" [add the following as second level of statements: "[bullet] feel faint [bullet] vomit blood [bullet] have bloody or black stools [bullet] have stomach pain that does not get better"].
