
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 201 - LABELING
##### Subpart G - Specific Labeling Requirements for Specific Drug Products
###### ยง 201.326 Over-the-counter drug products containing internal analgesic/antipyretic active ingredients; required warnings and other labeling.
####### For products labeled for adults and children under 12 years of age.

(v)The labeling of the product states all of the warnings in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section with the following modifications:

(A) The Stomach bleeding warning states "Stomach bleeding warning [heading in bold type]: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if the user [bullet] has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems [bullet] takes a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug [bullet] takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) [bullet] takes more or for a longer time than directed [bullet] is age 60 or older [bullet] has 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product". The "Stomach bleeding" warning must appear after the "Reye's syndrome" and "Allergy alert" warnings in ยง 201.66(c)(5)(ii)(A) and (c)(5)(ii)(B). If there is an outer and immediate container of a retail package, this warning must appear on both the outer and immediate containers. If the immediate container is a blister card, the warning must appear on the blister card and remain intact and readable when drug product is removed from the blister card. The warning is not required to be included on each blister unit.

(B) The labeling states "Ask a doctor before use if [bullet] stomach bleeding warning applies to user [bullet] user has history of stomach problems, such as heartburn [bullet] user has high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease [bullet] user takes a diuretic [bullet] user has not been drinking fluids [bullet] user has lost a lot of fluid due to vomiting or diarrhea".

(C) The labeling states "Stop use and ask a doctor if [bullet] user experiences any of the following signs of stomach bleeding:" [add the following as second level of statements: [bullet] feels faint [bullet] vomits blood [bullet] has bloody or black stools [bullet] has stomach pain that does not get better"].
