
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 207 - REQUIREMENTS FOR FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION AND LISTING FOR HUMAN DRUGS, INCLUDING DRUGS THAT ARE REGULATED UNDER A BIOLOGICS LICENSE APPLICATION, AND ANIMAL DRUGS, AND THE NATIONAL DRUG CODE
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 207.9 Who does this part cover?

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to:

(1) Domestic manufacturers, domestic repackers, domestic relabelers and domestic salvagers, not exempt under section 510(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or § 207.13, regardless of whether their drugs enter interstate commerce;

(2) Foreign manufacturers, foreign repackers, foreign relabelers and foreign salvagers, not exempt under section 510(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or § 207.13;

(3) Private label distributors, because they must have labeler codes;

(4) Establishments engaged in the manufacture, repacking, relabeling, or salvaging of human drugs regulated under a biologics license application (BLA). These establishments are subject to the requirements of this part unless they are required to register and list such drugs as human blood or blood products under part 607 of this chapter and do not engage in activities that would otherwise require them to register and list under this part.

(5) Establishments engaged in the manufacture (as defined in § 1271.3(e) of this chapter) of human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products (HCT/Ps) (as defined in § 1271.3(d) of this chapter) that, under § 1271.20 of this chapter, are also drugs regulated under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act or section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. These establishments must register and list those HCT/Ps following the procedures described in this part.

(b) This part does not apply to owners and operators of establishments that collect or process human whole blood and blood products unless the establishment also manufactures, repacks, or relabels other drugs. For purposes of this paragraph (b), human whole blood and blood products do not include plasma derivatives such as albumin, Immune Globulin, Factor VIII and Factor IX, and recombinant versions of plasma derivatives or animal derived plasma derivatives, or bulk product substances such as fractionation intermediates or pastes. Establishments that collect or process human whole blood and blood products as well as establishments involved in testing of human whole blood and blood products must register and list under part 607 of this chapter. Manufacturers of licensed devices and manufacturers of licensed biological products used in a licensed device must register and list under part 607 of this chapter.

(c) This part does not apply to establishments that solely manufacture, prepare, propagate, compound, assemble, or process medical devices. Registration and listing regulations for such establishments are codified in part 807 of this chapter.
