
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 207 - REQUIREMENTS FOR FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION AND LISTING FOR HUMAN DRUGS, INCLUDING DRUGS THAT ARE REGULATED UNDER A BIOLOGICS LICENSE APPLICATION, AND ANIMAL DRUGS, AND THE NATIONAL DRUG CODE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 207.13 Who is exempt from the registration and listing requirements?
####### et seq.

(h) Any manufacturer, repacker, relabeler, or salvager of a virus, serum, toxin, or analogous product intended for the treatment of domestic animals who holds an unsuspended and unrevoked license issued by the Secretary of Agriculture under the animal virus-serum-toxin law of March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 832 (21 U.S.C. 151)), provided that this exemption from registration applies only to the manufacturer, repacker, relabeler, or salvager of that animal virus, serum, toxin, or analogous product.

(i) Carriers, in their receipt, carriage, holding, or delivery of drugs in the usual course of business as carriers.

(j) Foreign establishments whose drugs are imported or offered for import into the United States must comply with the establishment registration and listing requirements of this part unless exempt under this section or unless:

(1) Their drugs enter a foreign trade zone and are re-exported without having entered U.S. commerce, or

(2) Their drugs are imported in conformance with section 801(d)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(k) Entities that are registered with FDA as outsourcing facilities and that compound drugs in conformance with section 503B of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(l) The exemptions provided in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section do not apply to such persons if they:

(1) Manufacture (as defined in ยง 207.1), repack, relabel, or salvage compounded positron emission tomography drugs as defined in section 201(ii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;

(2) Manufacture (as defined in ยง 600.3(u) of this chapter) a human biological product subject to licensing under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act; or

(3) Engage in activities that would otherwise require them to register under this part.
