
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 207 - REQUIREMENTS FOR FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION AND LISTING FOR HUMAN DRUGS, INCLUDING DRUGS THAT ARE REGULATED UNDER A BIOLOGICS LICENSE APPLICATION, AND ANIMAL DRUGS, AND THE NATIONAL DRUG CODE
##### Subpart C - National Drug Code
###### ยง 207.33 What is the National Drug Code (NDC), how is it assigned, and what are its requirements?
####### What is the format of an NDC

(b)? (1) Except as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the NDC must consist of 10 or 11 digits, divided into three segments as follows:

(i) The first segment of the NDC is the labeler code and consists of 4, 5, or 6 digits. The labeler code is assigned by FDA.

(ii) The second segment of the NDC is the product code and consists of 3 or 4 digits, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.

(iii) The third segment of the NDC is the package code and consists of 1 or 2 digits as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. The package code identifies the package size and type of the drug and differentiates between different quantitative and qualitative attributes of the product packaging.

(2) The following combinations of labeler code, product code and package code character lengths are permissible:

(i) If a labeler code is either 5 or 6 digits in length, it may be combined with:

(A) A product code consisting of 4 digits and a package code consisting of 1 digit for a total NDC length of 10 or 11 digits (5-4-1 or 6-4-1), or

(B) A product code consisting of 3 digits and a package code consisting of 2 digits for a total NDC length of 10 or 11 digits (5-3-2 or 6-3-2).

(ii) If a labeler code is 4 digits in length, it may be combined only with a product code consisting of 4 digits and a package code consisting of 2 digits for a total NDC length of 10 digits (4-4-2).

(3) A registrant or private label distributor with a given labeler code must use only one Product-Package Code configuration (e.g., a 3-digit product code combined with a 2-digit package code or a 4-digit product code combined with a 1-digit package code). This single configuration must be used in all NDCs that include the given labeler code that are reserved in accordance with ยง 207.33(d)(3) or listed in accordance with ยง 207.49 or ยง 207.53.

(4) An alternatively formatted NDC that is approved for use by the relevant Center Director may be used for the following HCT/Ps if they are minimally manipulated: Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells derived from peripheral and cord blood, and lymphocytes collected from peripheral blood.
