
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 207 - REQUIREMENTS FOR FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION AND LISTING FOR HUMAN DRUGS, INCLUDING DRUGS THAT ARE REGULATED UNDER A BIOLOGICS LICENSE APPLICATION, AND ANIMAL DRUGS, AND THE NATIONAL DRUG CODE
##### Subpart C - National Drug Code
###### § 207.33 What is the National Drug Code (NDC), how is it assigned, and what are its requirements?
####### How is an NDC proposed for assignment by FDA, when is an NDC assigned by FDA, and how can a proposed NDC be reserved

(d)? (1) An NDC is proposed for assignment by FDA when it is submitted for the first time with listing information in accordance with § 207.49 or § 207.53, as applicable.

(i) Each manufacturer, repacker, or relabeler must propose for assignment by FDA an NDC that includes its own labeler code for each package size and type of drug that it manufactures, repacks, or relabels for commercial distribution.

(ii) In addition, if a drug is distributed under the trade name or label of a private label distributor, the manufacturer, repacker, or relabeler must also propose for assignment by FDA an NDC that includes the labeler code of the private label distributor under whose trade name or label the drug is distributed, for each package size and type so distributed.

(2) If a proposed NDC conforms to the requirements of this section and is not reserved for a different drug or was not previously assigned to a different drug, FDA will assign the NDC to a drug when it receives listing information required for that drug under § 207.49 or § 207.53.

(3) A manufacturer, repacker, relabeler, or private label distributor may voluntarily reserve a proposed NDC for a drug, before the drug is listed, by submitting the following information:

(i) A proposed NDC that conforms to the requirements of this section;

(ii) The established name of the active ingredient(s) and the strength of each active ingredient in the drug; and

(iii) In the case of a finished drug product, the dosage form, and route of administration.

(4) If the required information is submitted and the proposed NDC is properly formatted and not already assigned or reserved, FDA will reserve the proposed NDC for a period of 2 years from the date of submission. If the drug for which the proposed NDC is reserved is not listed in accordance with § 207.49 or § 207.53 during such 2-year period, the reservation of the proposed NDC will lapse. FDA may also cancel the reservation of a proposed NDC at any time on the request of the person whose labeler code is included in the proposed NDC.
