
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 225 - CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE FOR MEDICATED FEEDS
##### Subpart E - Records and Reports
###### ยง 225.102 Master record file and production records.

(a) The Master Record File provides the complete procedure for manufacturing a specific product, setting forth the formulation, theoretical yield, manufacturing procedures, assay requirements, and labeling of batches or production runs. The production record(s) includes the complete history of a batch or production run. This record includes the amounts of drugs used, the amount of medicated feed manufactured, and provides a check for the daily inventory record of drug components.

(b) The Master Record File and production records shall comply with the following provisions:

(1) A Master Record File shall be prepared, checked, dated, and signed or initialed by a qualified person and shall be retained for not less than 1 year after production of the last batch or production run of medicated feed to which it pertains. The Master Record File or card shall include at least the following:

(i) The name of the medicated feed.

(ii) The name and weight percentage or measure of each drug or drug combination and each nondrug ingredient to be used in manufacturing a stated weight of the medicated feed.

(iii) A copy or description of the label or labeling that will accompany the medicated feed.

(iv) Manufacturing instructions or reference thereto that have been determined to yield a properly mixed medicated feed of the specified formula for each medicated feed produced on a batch or continuous operation basis, including mixing steps, mixing times and, in the case of medicated feeds produced by continuous production run, any additional manufacturing directions including, when indicated, the settings of equipment.

(v) Appropriate control directions or reference thereto, including the manner and frequency of collecting the required number of samples for specified laboratory assay.

(2) The original production record or copy thereof shall be prepared by qualified personnel for each batch or run of medicated feed produced and shall be retained on the premises for not less than 1 year. The production record shall include at least the following:

(i) Product identification, date of production, and a written endorsement in the form of a signature or initials by a responsible individual.

(ii) The quantity and name of drug components used.

(iii) The theoretical quantity of medicated feed to be produced.

(iv) The actual quantity of medicated feed produced. In those instances where the finished feed is stored in bulk and actual yield cannot be accurately determined, the firm shall estimate the quantity produced and provide the basis for such estimate in the Master Record File.

(3) In the case of a custom formula feed made to the specifications of a customer, the Master Record File and production records required by this section shall consist either of such records or of copies of the customer's purchase orders and the manufacturer's invoices bearing the information required by this section. When a custom order is received by telephone, the manufacturer shall prepare the required production records.

(4) Batch production records shall be checked by a responsible individual at the end of the working day in which the product was manufactured to determine whether all required production steps have been performed. If significant discrepancies are noted, an investigation shall be instituted immediately, and the production record shall describe the corrective action taken.

(5) Each batch or production run of medicated feed shall be identified with its own individual batch or production run number, code, date, or other suitable identification applied to the label, package, invoice or shipping document. This identification shall permit the tracing of the complete and accurate manufacturing history of the product by the manufacturer.
