
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 250 - SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC HUMAN DRUGS
##### Subpart A - Drugs Regarded as Misbranded
###### ยง 250.12 Stramonium preparations labeled with directions for use in self-medication regarded as misbranded.

(a) Stramonium products for inhalation have been offered for use in the therapy of the acute attacks of bronchial asthma for many years although their reliability and effectiveness are questionable. Recently, a significantly increased number of reports have come to the attention of the Food and Drug Administration showing that such products have been subject to abuse and misuse on a fairly large scale, mostly by young people, through oral ingestion for the purpose of producing hallucinations. Reports of such use have been received from physicians and police and other law enforcement authorities. Reports have also appeared in the public press and in medical journals.

(b) Labeling these products with a warning that they are not for oral ingestion has not been effective in protecting the public. Misuse of stramonium preparations can cause serious toxic effects including toxic delirium, visual disturbances, fever, and coma. A number of serious reactions have already occurred from the oral ingestion of such products.

(c) On the basis of this information, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs has concluded that such articles have a potentiality for harmful effect through misuse and are not safe for use except under the supervision of a physician. In the interest of public health protection, therefore, the Food and Drug Administration adopts the following policy:

(1) Preparations containing stramonium supplied from the leaves, seeds, or any other part of the plant in the form of a powder, pipe mixture, cigarette, or any other form, with or without admixture of other ingredients, will be regarded as misbranded if they are labeled with directions for use in self-medication.

(2) The Food and Drug Administration will, on request, furnish comment on proposed labeling limiting any such preparation to prescription sale.

(d) The labeling or dispensing of stramonium preparations contrary to this statement after 60 days following the date of its publication in themay be made the subject of regulatory proceedings.
