
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 251 - SECTION 804 IMPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Section 804 Importation Program Proposals and Pre-Import Requests
###### ยง 251.4 Review and authorization of importation program proposals.

Based on a review of a SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal submitted under this part, FDA may authorize a SIP, modify a SIP, or extend the authorization period of a SIP, that meets the requirements of this part. FDA may use a phased review process to review a SIP Proposal that does not identify a Foreign Seller in an initial submission, under which FDA may notify the Sponsor of such a SIP Proposal whether the Sponsor's SIP Proposal otherwise meets the requirements of this part. In such a case, the required information regarding importers, relabelers, and repackagers still must be included in the initial submission of the SIP Proposal, and the SIP Proposal will be denied if a Foreign Seller is not identified within 6 months of the initial submission date of the SIP Proposal.

(a) FDA may deny a request for authorization, modification, or extension of a SIP, including if a SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal does not meet the requirements of this part. When a SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal meets the requirements of this part, FDA may nonetheless decide not to authorize the SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal. For example, FDA may decide not to authorize a SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal because of potential safety concerns with the SIP; because a Foreign Seller is not identified within 6 months of the initial submission of the SIP Proposal; because of the degree of uncertainty that the SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal would adequately ensure the protection of public health; because of, based on the recommendation of another Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) component as directed by the Secretary, the relative likelihood that the SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal would not result in significant cost savings to the American consumer; because of the potential for conflicts of interest; or in order to limit the number of authorized SIPs so FDA can effectively and efficiently carry out its responsibilities under section 804 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in light of the amount of resources allocated to carrying out such responsibilities.

(b) FDA will notify a SIP Sponsor in writing when FDA receives the SIP Sponsor's SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal.

(c) FDA will make a reasonable effort to promptly communicate to a SIP Sponsor about any information required by ยง 251.3 that was not submitted in a SIP Proposal.

(1) FDA may notify a SIP Sponsor if FDA believes additional information would help FDA's review of a SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal.

(2) FDA will notify a SIP Sponsor in writing whether FDA has decided to authorize or not to authorize the SIP Sponsor's SIP Proposal or supplemental proposal.
