
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Drugs: General
#### PART 251 - SECTION 804 IMPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Certain Requirements for Section 804 Importation Programs
###### ยง 251.18 Post-importation requirements.
####### Drug recalls.

(e)(1) The SIP Sponsor must establish a procedure to track the public announcements of the manufacturer of each drug it imports under section 804 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and the SIP Sponsor must also monitor FDA's recall website for recall or market withdrawal information relevant to the drugs that it imports under section 804.

(2) If FDA, the SIP Sponsor, the Foreign Seller, the Importer, or the manufacturer determines that a recall is warranted, the SIP Sponsor must effectuate the recall in accordance with its written recall plan under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(3) A SIP must have a written recall plan that describes the procedures to perform a recall of the product and specifies who will be responsible for performing the procedures. The recall plan must cover recalls mandated or requested by FDA and recalls initiated by the SIP Sponsor, the Foreign Seller, the Importer, or the manufacturer. The recall plan must include sufficient procedures for the SIP Sponsor to:

(i) Immediately cease distribution of the drugs affected by the recall;

(ii) Directly notify consignees of the drug(s) included in the recall, including how to return or dispose of the recalled drugs;

(iii) Specify the depth to which the recall will extend (e.g., wholesale, intermediate wholesale, retail or consumer level) if not specified by FDA;

(iv) Notify the public about any hazard(s) presented by the recalled drug when appropriate to protect the public health;

(v) Conduct effectiveness checks to verify that all consignees at the specified recall depth have received notification about the recall and have taken appropriate action;

(vi) Appropriately dispose of recalled product; and

(vii) Notify FDA of the recall.

(4) In the event of a recall, the Importer must, upon request by FDA, provide transaction history, information, and statement (as these terms are defined in sections 581(25), 581(26), and 581(27) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act), in accordance with applicable requirements under sections 582(c)(1)(C) and 582(d)(1)(D).

(i) The Importer must also provide to FDA, upon request, information given by the manufacturer under ยง 251.14(a)(6), including transaction documents that were provided from the manufacturer to the Foreign Seller.

(ii) The Foreign Seller must provide to FDA, upon request, information about its transactions of the recalled drug with the manufacturer and the Importer.

(5) The Foreign Seller and Importer must cooperate with any recalls, including recalls initiated by the SIP Sponsor, FDA, the Foreign Seller, the Importer, or the drug's manufacturer.
