
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart C - New Drugs Exempted From Prescription-Dispensing Requirements
###### ยง 310.201 Exemption for certain drugs limited by new-drug applications to prescription sale.
####### N,p

(vi) The dosages of-acetyl--aminophenol recommended or suggested in the labeling do not exceed: For adults, 0.65 gram (10 grains) per dose or 2.6 grams (40 grains) per 24-hour period: for children 6 to 12 years of age, one-half of the maximum adult dose or dosage; for children 3 to 6 years of age, one-fifth of the maximum adult dose or dosage.

(vii) The labeling bears, in juxtaposition with the dosage recommendations, a clear warning statement against administration of the drug to children under 3 years of age and against use of the drug for more than 10 days, unless such uses are directed by a physician.

(viii) If the article is offered for use in arthritis or rheumatism, the labeling prominently bears a statement that the beneficial effects claimed are limited to the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of arthritis and rheumatism and, in juxtaposition with directions for use in such conditions, a conspicuous warning statement, such as "Caution: If pain persists for more than 10 days, or redness is present, or in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age, consult a physician immediately".

(2) Sodium gentisate (sodium-2, 5-dihydroxybenzoate) preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The sodium gentisate is prepared, with or without other drugs, in tablet or other dosage form suitable for oral use in self-medication, and containing no drug limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act.

(ii) The sodium gentisate and all other components of the preparation meet their professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iii) If the preparation is a new drug, an application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for it.

(iv) The preparation contains not more than 0.5 gram (7.7 grains) of anhydrous sodium gentisate per dosage unit.

(v) The preparation is labeled with adequate directions for use in minor conditions as a simple analgesic.

(vi) The dosages of sodium gentisate recommended or suggested in the labeling do not exceed: For adults, 0.5 gram (7.7 grains) per dose of 2.0 grams (31 grains) per 24-hour period; for children 6 to 12 years of age, one-half of the maximum adult dose or dosage.

(vii) The labeling bears, in juxtaposition with the dosage recommendations, a clear warning statement against administration of the drug to children under 6 years of age and against use of the drug for a prolonged period, except as such uses may be directed by a physician.
