
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart C - New Drugs Exempted From Prescription-Dispensing Requirements
###### ยง 310.201 Exemption for certain drugs limited by new-drug applications to prescription sale.
####### b

() Spraying the preparation in the vicinity of eyes, mouth, nose, or ears.

(12) Sulfur dioxide preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The sulfur dioxide is prepared with or without other drugs, in an aqueous solution packaged in a hermetic container suitable for use in self-medication by external application to the skin, and containing no drug limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act.

(ii) The sulfur dioxide and all other components of the preparation meet their professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iii) If the preparation is a new drug, an application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for it.

(iv) The preparation contains not more than 5 grams of sulfur dioxide per 100 milliliters of solution.

(v) The preparation is labeled with adequate directions for use by external application to the smooth skin in the prevention or treatment of minor conditions in which it is indicated.

(vi) The directions for use recommend or suggest not more than two applications a day for not more than 1 week, except as directed by a physician.

(13)-(15) [Reserved]

(16) Tuaminoheptane sulfate (2-aminoheptane sulfate) preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The tuaminoheptane sulfate is prepared, with or without other drugs, in an aqueous vehicle suitable for administration in self-medication as nose drops, and containing no drug limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act.

(ii) The preparation is packaged with a style of container or assembly suited to self-medication by the recommended route of administration, and delivering not more than 0.1 milliliter of the preparation per drop.

(iii) The tuaminoheptane sulfate and all other components of the preparation meet their professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iv) If the preparation is a new drug, an application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for it.

(v) The tuaminoheptane sulfate content of the preparation does not exceed 10 milligrams per milliliter.

(vi) The preparation is labeled with adequate directions for use in the temporary relief of nasal congestion.

(vii) The dosages recommended or suggested in the directions for use do not exceed the equivalent: For adults, 5 drops of a 1 percent solution per nostril per dose, and 5 doses in a 24-hour period; for children 1 to 6 years of age, 3 drops of a 1 percent solution per nostril per dose, and 5 doses in a 24-hour period; for infants under 1 year of age, 2 drops of a 1 percent solution per nostril per dose, and 5 doses in a 24-hour period.

(viii) The labeling bears, in juxtaposition with the dosage recommendations:
