
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart C - New Drugs Exempted From Prescription-Dispensing Requirements
###### ยง 310.201 Exemption for certain drugs limited by new-drug applications to prescription sale.
####### d

() Use in the eyes or nose.

(20) [Reserved]

(21) Pamabrom (2-amino-2-methylpropanol-1-8-bromotheophyllinate) preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The pamabrom is prepared with appropriate amounts of a suitable analgesic and with or without other drugs, in tablet or other dosage form suitable for oral use in self-medication, and containing no drug limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act.

(ii) The pamabrom and all other components of the preparation meet their professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iii) If the preparation is a new drug, an application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for it.

(iv) The preparation contains not more than 50 milligrams of pamabrom per dosage unit.

(v) The preparation is labeled with adequate directions for use in the temporary relief of the minor pains and discomforts that may occur a few days before and during the menstrual period.

(vi) The dosages recommended or suggested in the labeling do not exceed 50 milligrams of pamabrom per dose or 200 milligrams per 24-hour period.

(22) Diphemanil methylsulfate (4-diphenylmethylene-1,1-dimethyl-piperidinium methylsulfate) preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The diphemanil methylsulfate is prepared, with or without other drugs, in a dosage form suitable for use in self-medication by external application to the skin, and containing no drug limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act.

(ii) The diphemanil methylsulfate and all other components of the preparation meet their professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iii) If the preparation is a new drug, an application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for it.

(iv) The preparation contains not more than 2.0 percent of diphemanil methylsulfate.

(v) The preparation is labeled with adequate directions for use by external application to the skin for the relief of symptoms of mild poison ivy, oak, and sumac and other minor irritations and itching of the skin.

(vi) The directions for use recommend or suggest not more than four applications of the preparation per day, unless directed by a physician.

(vii) The labeling bears, in juxtaposition with the directions for use, a clear warning statement, such as: "Caution: If redness, irritation, swelling, or pain persists or increases, discontinue use and consult physician."
