
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart C - New Drugs Exempted From Prescription-Dispensing Requirements
###### ยง 310.201 Exemption for certain drugs limited by new-drug applications to prescription sale.
####### c

() A clear warning statement against use of the drug in the presence of high fever or if cough persists, since persistent cough as well as high fever may indicate the presence of a serious condition.

(27) Biphenamine hydrochloride (&#x3B2;-diethylaminoethyl-3-phenyl-2-hydroxybenzoate hydrochloride) preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The biphenamine hydrochloride is prepared in a form suitable for use as a shampoo and contains no drug limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act.

(ii) The biphenamine hydrochloride meets its professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iii) If the preparation is a new drug, an application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for it.

(iv) The preparation contains not more than 1 percent of biphenamine hydrochloride.

(v) The preparation is labeled with adequate directions for use for the temporary relief of itching and scaling due to dandruff.

(vi) The label bears a conspicuous warning to keep the drug out of the reach of children.

(28) Tyloxapol (an alkylarylpolyether alcohol) and benzalkonium chloride ophthalmic preparations meeting all the following conditions:

(i) The tyloxapol and benzalkonium chloride are prepared, with other appropriate ingredients which are not drugs limited to prescription sale under the provisions of section 503(b)(1) of the act, as a sterile, isotonic aqueous solution suitable for use in self-medication on eye prostheses.

(ii) The preparation is so packaged as to volume and type of container as to afford adequate protection and be suitable for self-medication with a minimum risk of contamination of the solution during use. Any dispensing unit is sterile and so packaged as to maintain sterility until the package is opened.

(iii) The tyloxapol, benzalkonium chloride, and other ingredients used to prepare the isotonic aqueous solution meet their professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.

(iv) An application pursuant to section 505(b) of the act is approved for the drug.

(v) The preparation contains 0.25 percent of tyloxapol and 0.02 percent of benzalkonium chloride.

(vi) The label bears a conspicuous warning to keep the drug out of the reach of children and the labeling bears, in juxtaposition with the dosage recommendations, a clear warning that if irritation occurs, persists, or increases, use of the drug should be discontinued and a physician consulted. The labeling includes a statement that the dropper or other dispensing tip should not touch any surface, since this may contaminate the solution.

(29) [Reserved]

(b) [Reserved]
