
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Specific New Drugs or Devices
###### ยง 310.501 Patient package inserts for oral contraceptives.
####### Contents of patient package insert.

(c)A patient package insert for an oral contraceptive drug product is required to contain the following:

(1) The name of the drug.

(2) A summary including a statement concerning the effectiveness of oral contraceptives in preventing pregnancy, the contraindications to the drug's use, and a statement of the risks and benefits associated with the drug's use.

(3) A statement comparing the effectiveness of oral contraceptives to other methods of contraception.

(4) A boxed warning concerning the increased risks associated with cigarette smoking and oral contraceptive use.

(5) A discussion of the contraindications to use, including information that the patient should provide to the prescriber before taking the drug.

(6) A statement of medical conditions that are not contraindications to use but deserve special consideration in connection with oral contraceptive use and about which the patient should inform the prescriber.

(7) A warning regarding the most serious side effects of oral contraceptives.

(8) A statement of other serious adverse reactions and potential safety hazards that may result from the use of oral contraceptives.

(9) A statement concerning common, but less serious side effects which may help the patient evaluate the benefits and risks from the use of oral contraceptives.

(10) Information on precautions the patients should observe while taking oral contraceptives, including the following:

(i) A statement of risks to the mother and unborn child from the use of oral contraceptives before or during early pregnancy;

(ii) A statement concerning excretion of the drug in human milk and associated risks to the nursing infant;

(iii) A statement about laboratory tests which may be affected by oral contraceptives; and

(iv) A statement that identifies activities and drugs, foods, or other substances the patient should avoid because of their interactions with oral contraceptives.

(11) Information about how to take oral contraceptives properly, including information about what to do if the patient forgets to take the product, information about becoming pregnant after discontinuing use of the drug, a statement that the drug product has been prescribed for the use of the patient and should not be used for other conditions or given to others, and a statement that the patient's pharmacist or practitioner has a more technical leaflet about the drug product that the patient may ask to review.

(12) A statement of the possible benefits associated with oral contraceptive use.

(13) The following information about the drug product and the patient package insert:

(i) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor, or the name and place of business of the dispenser of the product.

(ii) The date, identified as such, of the most recent revision of the patient package insert placed prominently immediately after the last section of the labeling.
