
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Specific New Drugs or Devices
###### ยง 310.502 Certain drugs accorded new drug status through rulemaking procedures.

(a) The drugs listed in this paragraph (a) have been determined by rulemaking procedures to be new drugs within the meaning of section 201(p) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. An approved new drug application under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and part 314 of this chapter is required for marketing the following drugs:

(1) Aerosol drug products for human use containing 1,1,1-trichloroethane.

(2) Aerosol drug products containing zirconium.

(3) Amphetamines (amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, and their salts, and levamfetamine and its salts) for human use.

(4) Camphorated oil drug products.

(5) Certain halogenated salicylanilides (tribromsalan (TBS, 3,4&#x2032;,5-tribromosalicylanilide), dibromsalan (DBS, 4&#x2032;, 5-dibromosalicylanilide), metabromsalan (MBS, 3, 5-dibromosalicylanilide), and 3,3&#x2032;, 4,5&#x2032;-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TC-SA)) as an ingredient in drug products.

(6) Chloroform used as an ingredient (active or inactive) in drug products.

(7) Cobalt preparations intended for use by man.

(8) Intrauterine devices for human use for the purpose of contraception that incorporate heavy metals, drugs, or other active substances.

(9) Oral prenatal drugs containing fluorides intended for human use.

(10) Parenteral drug products in plastic containers.

(11) [Reserved]

(12) Sweet spirits of nitre drug products.

(13) Thorium dioxide for drug use.

(14) Timed release dosage forms.

(15) Vinyl chloride as an ingredient, including propellant, in aerosol drug products.

(b) [Reserved]
