
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 310 - NEW DRUGS
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Specific New Drugs or Devices
###### ยง 310.545 Drug products containing certain active ingredients offered over-the-counter (OTC) for certain uses.
####### Sunscreen drug products.,Ingredients.

(29)(i)

(ii) Any ingredients labeled with any of the following or similar claims. Instant protection or protection immediately upon application.

Claims for "all-day" protection or extended wear claims citing a specific number of hours of protection that is inconsistent with the directions for application in 21 CFR 201.327.

(30) [Reserved]

(b) Any OTC drug product that is labeled, represented, or promoted for the uses specified and containing any active ingredient(s) as specified in paragraph (a) of this section is regarded as a new drug within the meaning of section 210(p) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act), for which an approved new drug application under section 505 of the Act and part 314 of this chapter is required for marketing. In the absence of an approved new drug application, such product is also misbranded under section 502 of the Act.

(c) Clinical investigations designed to obtain evidence that any drug product labeled, represented, or promoted for the OTC uses and containing any active ingredient(s) as specified in paragraph (a) of this section is safe and effective for the purpose intended must comply with the requirements and procedures governing the use of investigational new drugs set forth in part 312 of this chapter.

(d) Any OTC drug product that is not in compliance with this section is subject to regulatory action if initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after the dates specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(42) of this section.

(1) May 7, 1991, for products subject to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(i), (a)(4)(i), (a)(6)(i)(A), (a)(6)(ii)(A), (a)(7) (except as covered by paragraph (d)(3) of this section), (a)(8)(i), (a)(10)(i) through (a)(10)(iii), (a)(12)(i)(A), (a)(12)(ii) through (a)(12)(iv)(A), (a)(14) through (a)(15)(i), (a)(16) through (a)(18)(i)(A), (a)(18)(ii) (except as covered by paragraph (d)(22) of this section), (a)(18)(iii), (a)(18)(iv), (a)(18)(v)(A), and (a)(18)(vi)(A) of this section.

(2) February 10, 1992, for products subject to paragraph (a)(20) of this section.

(3) December 4, 1992, for products subject to paragraph (a)(7) of this section that contain menthol as an antipruritic in combination with the antidandruff ingredient coal tar identified in ยง 358.710(a)(1) of this chapter. This section does not apply to products allowed by ยง 358.720(b) of this chapter after April 5, 2007.

(4) February 28, 1990, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section, except those that contain ipecac.

(5) September 14, 1993, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section that contain ipecac.

(6) December 9, 1993, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(i)(B) of this section.

(7) March 6, 1989, for products subject to paragraph (a)(21) of this section, except those that contain ophthalmic anti-infective ingredients listed in paragraph (a)(21)(ii).

(8) June 18, 1993, for products subject to paragraph (a)(21) of this section that contain ophthalmic anti-infective ingredients.

(9) June 18, 1993, for products subject to paragraph (a)(10)(iv) of this section.

(10) June 18, 1993, for products subject to paragraph (a)(22)(i) of this section.

(11) November 10, 1993, for products subject to paragraphs (a)(8)(ii), (a)(10)(v) through (a)(10)(vii), (a)(18)(ii) (except products that contain ferric subsulfate as covered by paragraph (d)(22) of this section and except products that contain calcium acetate monohydrate as covered by paragraph (d)(39) of this section) through (a)(18)(v)(A), (a)(18)(vi)(A), (a)(22)(ii), (a)(23)(i), (a)(24)(i), and (a)(25) of this section.

(12) March 2, 1994, for products subject to paragraph (a)(22)(iii) of this section.

(13) August 5, 1991, for products subject to paragraph (a)(26) of this section, except for those that contain live yeast cell derivative and a combination of hydrocortisone and pramoxine hydrochloride.

(14) September 2, 1994, for products subject to paragraph (a)(26)(vii) and (a)(26)(x) of this section that contain live yeast cell derivative.

(15) September 23, 1994, for products subject to paragraph (a)(22)(iv) of this section.

(16) June 14, 1994, for products subject to paragraph (a)(25)(ii) of this section.

(17) April 19, 2004, for products subject to paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. April 18, 2005, for products with annual sales less than $25,000.

(18) August 15, 1995, for products subject to paragraph (a)(15)(ii) of this section.

(19) October 2, 1987, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(iv)(A) of this section.

(20) January 29, 1996, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(iv)(B) of this section.

(21) April 21, 1994, for products subject to paragraph (a)(8)(iii) of this section.

(22) April 21, 1993, for products subject to paragraph (a)(18)(ii) of this section that contain ferric subsulfate.

(23) August 23, 1995, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(B) of this section.

(24) October 7, 1996, for products subject to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(25) June 19, 1996, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(iv)(C) of this section.

(26) February 22, 1999, for products subject to paragraphs (a)(23)(ii) and (a)(24)(ii) of this section.

(27) [Reserved]

(28) October 22, 1998, for products subject to paragraphs (a)(27) and (a)(28)(i) of this section.

(29) January 29, 1999, for products subject to paragraph (a)(12)(iv)(B) of this section.

(30) November 5, 2002, for products subject to paragraph (a)(12)(iv)(C) of this section.

(31) December 31, 2002, for products subject to paragraph (a)(29)(i) of this section.

(32) June 4, 2004, for products subject to paragraphs (a)(18)(i)(B), (a)(18)(v)(B), and (a)(18)(vi)(B) of this section. June 6, 2005, for products with annual sales less than $25,000.

(33) October 29, 2001, for products subject to paragraph (a)(6)(iv)(D) of this section.

(34) December 9, 2004, for products subject to paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section. June 9, 2005, for products with annual sales less than $25,000.

(35) [Reserved]

(36) November 5, 2002, for products subject to paragraph (a)(28)(ii) of this section.

(37) September 25, 2003, for products subject to paragraph (a)(26)(xi) of this section.

(38) October 1, 2007, for products subject to paragraph (a)(12)(i)(B) of this section.

(39) September 6, 2010, for products subject to paragraph (a)(18)(ii) of this section that contain calcium acetate monohydrate, except as provided in ยง 347.20(b) of this chapter.

(40) December 17, 2012, for products subject to paragraph (a)(29)(ii) of this section. December 17, 2013, for products with annual sales less than $25,000.

(41) September 6, 2017, for products subject to paragraph (a)(27)(iii) or (iv) of this section.

(42) December 20, 2018, for products subject to paragraphs (a)(27)(vi) through (x) of this section.
