
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Imports and Exports
###### ยง 1.101 Notification and recordkeeping.
####### Notification requirements for drugs, biological products, and devices exported under section 802 of the act.

(d)(1) Persons exporting a human drug, biological product, or device under section 802 of the act, other than a drug, biological product, or device for investigational use exported under section 802(c) of the act, or a drug, biological product, or device exported in anticipation of marketing authorization under section 802(d) of the act, shall provide written notification to FDA. The notification shall identify:

(i) The product's trade name;

(ii) If the product is a drug or biological product, the product's abbreviated or proper name or, if the product is a device, the type of device;

(iii) If the product is a drug or biological product, a description of the product's strength and dosage form or, if the product is a device, the product's model number; and

(iv) If the export is to a country not listed in section 802(b)(1) of the act, the country that is to receive the exported article. The notification may, but is not required to, identify countries listed in section 802(b)(1) of the act or state that the export is intended for a listed country without identifying the listed country.

(2) The notification shall be sent to the following addresses:

(i) For biological products and devices regulated by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research-Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.

(ii) For human drug products, biological products, and devices regulated by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research-Office of Drug Security, Integrity and Response, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.

(iii) For devices-DRP2: Division of Establishment Support, Office of Regulatory Programs, Office of Product Evaluation and Quality, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 66, Rm. 1423, Silver Spring, MD 20993.
