
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 314 - APPLICATIONS FOR FDA APPROVAL TO MARKET A NEW DRUG
##### Subpart B - Applications
###### ยง 314.50 Content and format of an NDA.
####### Application form.

(a)The applicant must submit a completed and signed application form that contains the following:

(1) The name and address of the applicant; the date of the NDA; the NDA number if previously issued (for example, if the NDA is a resubmission or an amendment or supplement); the name of the drug product, including its established, proprietary, code, and chemical names; the dosage form and strength; the route of administration; the identification numbers of all INDs (as defined in ยง 312.3(b) of this chapter) that are referenced in the NDA; the identification numbers of all drug master files and other applications under this part that are referenced in the NDA; and the drug product's proposed indications for use.

(2) A statement whether the submission is an original submission, a 505(b)(2) application, a resubmission, or a supplement to an application under ยง 314.70.

(3) A statement whether the applicant proposes to market the drug product as a prescription or an over-the-counter product.

(4) A check-list identifying what enclosures required under this section the applicant is submitting.

(5) The applicant, or the applicant's attorney, agent, or other authorized official must sign the NDA. If the person signing the NDA does not reside or have a place of business within the United States, the NDA is required to contain the name and address of, and be countersigned by, an attorney, agent, or other authorized official who resides or maintains a place of business within the United States.
