
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 314 - APPLICATIONS FOR FDA APPROVAL TO MARKET A NEW DRUG
##### Subpart B - Applications
###### ยง 314.50 Content and format of an NDA.
####### Other.

(g)The following general requirements apply to the submission of information within the summary under paragraph (c) of this section and within the technical sections under paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) The applicant ordinarily is not required to resubmit information previously submitted, but may incorporate the information by reference. A reference to information submitted previously is required to identify the file by name, reference number, volume, and page number in the agency's records where the information can be found. A reference to information submitted to the agency by a person other than the applicant is required to contain a written statement that authorizes the reference and that is signed by the person who submitted the information.

(2) The applicant must submit an accurate and complete English translation of each part of the NDA that is not in English. The applicant must submit a copy of each original literature publication for which an English translation is submitted.

(3) If an applicant who submits an NDA under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act obtains a "right of reference or use," as defined under ยง 314.3(b), to an investigation described in clause (A) of section 505(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the applicant must include in its NDA a written statement signed by the owner of the data from each such investigation that the applicant may rely on in support of the approval of its NDA, and provide FDA access to, the underlying raw data that provide the basis for the report of the investigation submitted in its NDA.
