
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 314 - APPLICATIONS FOR FDA APPROVAL TO MARKET A NEW DRUG
##### Subpart B - Applications
###### ยง 314.52 Notice of certification of invalidity, unenforceability, or noninfringement of a patent.
####### Sending the notice.

(b)(1) Except as provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the applicant must send the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section on or after the date of filing described in ยง 314.101(a)(2) or (3), as applicable, but not later than 20 days after the date of the postmark on the paragraph IV acknowledgment letter. The 20-day clock described in this paragraph (b) begins on the day after the date of the postmark on the paragraph IV acknowledgment letter. When the 20th day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the 20th day will be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.

(2) Any notice required by paragraph (a) of this section is invalid if it is sent before the date of filing described in ยง 314.101(a)(2) or, if FDA notifies the applicant that FDA has refused to file the 505(b)(2) application, before the date described in ยง 314.101(a)(3) on which the 505(b)(2) application is filed. The applicant will not have complied with this paragraph (b) until it sends valid notice.

(3) The applicant must submit to FDA an amendment to its 505(b)(2) application that includes a statement certifying that the notice has been provided to each person identified under paragraph (a) of this section and that the notice met the content requirement under paragraph (c) of this section. A copy of the notice itself need not be submitted to the Agency.
