
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 314 - APPLICATIONS FOR FDA APPROVAL TO MARKET A NEW DRUG
##### Subpart B - Applications
###### ยง 314.52 Notice of certification of invalidity, unenforceability, or noninfringement of a patent.
####### Content of a notice.

(c)In the notice, the applicant must cite section 505(b)(3)(D) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the notice must include, but is not limited to, the following information:

(1) A statement that a 505(b)(2) application that contains any required bioavailability or bioequivalence studies has been submitted by the applicant and filed by FDA.

(2) The NDA number.

(3) The established name, if any, as defined in section 502(e)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, of the proposed drug product.

(4) The active ingredient, strength, and dosage form of the proposed drug product.

(5) The patent number and expiration date of each patent on the list alleged to be invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.

(6) A detailed statement of the factual and legal basis of the applicant's opinion that the patent is not valid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed. The applicant must include in the detailed statement:

(i) For each claim of a patent alleged not to be infringed, a full and detailed explanation of why the claim is not infringed.

(ii) For each claim of a patent alleged to be invalid or unenforceable, a full and detailed explanation of the grounds supporting the allegation.

(7) If the applicant alleges that the patent will not be infringed and the applicant seeks to preserve the option to later file a civil action for declaratory judgment in accordance with section 505(c)(3)(D) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, then the notice must be accompanied by an offer of confidential access to the 505(b)(2) application for the sole and limited purpose of evaluating possible infringement of the patent that is the subject of the paragraph IV certification.

(8) If the applicant does not reside or have a place of business in the United States, the name and address of an agent in the United States authorized to accept service of process for the applicant.
