
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.3 Disbursements for communications to the restricted class in connection with a Federal election.
###### Candidate and party appearances.

(2)(i) A corporation may allow a candidate, candidate's representative or party representative to address its restricted class at a meeting, convention or other function of the corporation, but is not required to do so. A labor organization may allow a candidate or party representative to address its restricted class at a meeting, convention, or other function of the labor organization, but is not required to do so. A corporation or labor organization may bar other candidates for the same office or a different office and their representatives, and representatives of other parties addressing the restricted class. A corporation or labor organization may allow the presence of employees outside the restricted class of the corporation or labor organization who are necessary to administer the meeting, other guests of the corporation or labor organization who are being honored or speaking or participating in the event, and representatives of the news media.

(ii) The candidate, candidate's representative or party representative may ask for contributions to his or her campaign or party, or ask that contributions to the separate segregated fund of the corporation or labor organization be designated for his or her campaign or party. The incidental solicitation of persons outside the corporation's or labor organization's restricted class who may be present at the meeting as permitted by this section will not be a violation of 11 CFR part 114. The candidate's representative or party representative (other than an officer, director or other representative of a corporation or official, member or employee of a labor organization) or the candidate, may accept contributions before, during or after the appearance at the meeting, convention or other function of the corporation or labor organization.

(iii) The corporation or labor organization may suggest that members of its restricted class contribute to the candidate or party committee, but the collection of contributions by any officer, director or other representative of the corporation or labor organization before, during, or after the appearance while at the meeting, is an example of a prohibited facilitation of contributions under 11 CFR 114.2(f).

(iv) If the corporation or labor organization permits more than one candidate for the same office, or more than one candidate's representative or party representative, to address its restricted class, and permits the news media to cover or carry an appearance by one candidate or candidate's representative or party representative, the corporation or labor organization shall also permit the news media to cover or carry the appearances by the other candidate(s) for that office, or the other candidates' representatives or party representatives. If the corporation or labor organization permits a representative of the news media to cover or carry a candidate or candidate's representative or party representative appearance, the corporation or labor organization shall provide all other representatives of the news media with equal access for covering or carrying that appearance. Equal access is provided by-

(A) Providing advance information regarding the appearance to the representatives of the news media whom the corporation or labor organization customarily contacts and other representatives of the news media upon request; and

(B) Allowing all representatives of the news media to cover or carry the appearance, through the use of pooling arrangements if necessary.
