
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.4 Disbursements for communications by corporations and labor organizations beyond the restricted class in connection with a Federal election.
###### General.,See also

(a)A corporation or labor organization may communicate beyond the restricted class in accordance with this section. Communications that a corporation or labor organization may make only to its employees (including its restricted class) and their families, but not to the general public, are set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Any communications that a corporation or labor organization may make to the general public under paragraph (c) of this section may also be made to the corporation's or labor organization's restricted class and to other employees and their families. Communications that a corporation or labor organization may make only to its restricted class are set forth at 11 CFR 114.3. The activities described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be coordinated with candidates and political committees only to the extent permitted by this section. For the otherwise applicable regulations regarding independent expenditures and coordination with candidates, see 11 CFR 100.16, 109.21, and 114.2(c). Voter registration and get-out-the-vote drives as described in paragraph (d) of this section must not include coordinated expenditures as defined in 11 CFR 109.20, coordinated communications as defined in 11 CFR 109.21, or contributions as defined in 11 CFR part 100, subpart B.note to 11 CFR 114.2(b), 114.10(a). Incorporated membership organizations, incorporated trade associations, incorporated cooperatives, and corporations without capital stock will be treated as corporations for the purpose of this section.
