
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.4 Disbursements for communications by corporations and labor organizations beyond the restricted class in connection with a Federal election.
###### Candidate and party appearances on labor organization premises or at a meeting, convention or other function.

(2)A labor organization may permit candidates, candidates' representatives or representatives of political parties on the labor organization's premises or at a meeting, convention, or other function of the labor organization to address or meet its restricted class and other employees of the labor organization, and their families, in accordance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (iii), (vi) through (viii), and paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. Other guests of the labor organization who are being honored or speaking or participating in the event and representatives of the news media may be present. A labor organization may bar all candidates, candidates' representatives and representatives of political parties from addressing or meeting its restricted class and other employees of the labor organization and their families on the labor organization's premises or at any meeting, convention or other function of the labor organization.

(i) The candidate's representative or party representative (other than an official, member or employee of a labor organization) or the candidate, may ask for contributions to his or her campaign or party, or ask that contributions to the separate segregated fund of the labor organization be designated for his or her campaign or party. The candidate, candidate's representative or party representative shall not accept contributions before, during or after the appearance while at the meeting, convention or other function of the labor organization, but may leave campaign materials or envelopes for members of the audience. No official, member, or employee of a labor organization or its separate segregated fund shall, either orally or in writing, solicit or direct or control contributions by members of the audience to any candidate or party representative under this section, and shall not facilitate the making of contributions to any such candidate or party. See 11 CFR 114.2(f).

(ii) A labor organization or its separate segregated fund shall not, in conjunction with any candidate or party representative appearance under this section, expressly advocate the election or defeat of any clearly identified candidate(s), and shall not promote or encourage express advocacy by its members or employees.
