
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.5 Separate segregated funds.
###### Voluntary contributions to a separate segregated fund.

(a)(1) A separate segregated fund is prohibited from making a contribution or expenditure by utilizing money or anything of value secured by physical force, job discrimination, financial reprisals, or the threat of force, job discrimination, or financial reprisal; or by dues, fees, or other monies required as a condition of membership in a labor organization or as a condition of employment or by monies obtained in any commercial transaction. For purposes of this section, fees or monies paid as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership or employment are monies required as a condition of membership or employment even though they are refundable upon request of the payor.

(2) A guideline for contributions may be suggested by a corporation or a labor organization, or the separate segregated fund of either, provided that the person soliciting or the solicitation informs the persons being solicited-

(i) That the guidelines are merely suggestions; and

(ii) That an individual is free to contribute more or less than the guidelines suggest and the corporation or labor organization will not favor or disadvantage anyone by reason of the amount of their contribution or their decision not to contribute.

(3) Any person soliciting an employee or member for a contribution to a separate segregated fund must inform such employee or member of the political purposes of the fund at the time of the solicitation.

(4) Any persons soliciting an employee or member for a contribution to a separate segregated fund must inform the employee or member at the time of such solicitation of his or her right to refuse to so contribute without any reprisal.

(5) Any written solicitation for a contribution to a separate segregated fund which is addressed to an employee or member must contain statements which comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) (3) and (4) of this section, and if a guideline is suggested, statements which comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
