
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.5 Separate segregated funds.
###### Use of treasury monies.

(b)Corporations, labor organizations, membership organizations, cooperatives, or corporations without capital stock may use general treasury monies, including monies obtained in commercial transactions and dues monies or membership fees, for the establishment, administration, and solicitation of contributions to its separate segregated fund. A corporation, labor organization, membership organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock may not use the establishment, administration, and solicitation process as a means of exchanging treasury monies for voluntary contributions.

(1) A contributor may not be paid for his or her contribution through a bonus, expense account, or other form of direct or indirect compensation.

(2) A corporation, labor organization, membership organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock may, subject to the provisions of 39 U.S.C. 3005 and chapter 61, title 18, United States Code, utilize a raffle or other fundraising device which involves a prize, so long as State law permits and the prize is not disproportionately valuable. Dances, parties, and other types of entertainment may also be used as fundraising devices. When using raffles or entertainment to raise funds, a reasonable practice to follow is for the separate segregated fund to reimburse the corporation or labor organization for costs which exceed one-third of the money contributed.

(3) If the separate segregated fund pays any solicitation or other administrative expense from its own account, which expense could be paid for as an administrative expense by the collecting agent, the collecting agent may reimburse the separate segregated fund no later than 30 calendar days after the expense was paid by the separate segregated fund.
