
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.5 Separate segregated funds.
###### Availability of methods.

(k)Any corporation, including its subsidiaries, branches, divisions, and affiliates, that uses a method of soliciting voluntary contributions or facilitating the making of voluntary contributions from its stockholders or executive or administrative personnel and their families, shall make that method available to a labor organization representing any members working for the corporation, its subsidiaries, branches, divisions, and affiliates for soliciting voluntary contributions or facilitating the making of voluntary contributions from its members and their families. Such method shall be made available on the written request of the labor organization and at a cost sufficient only to reimburse the corporation for the expenses incurred thereby. For example-

(1) If a corporation, including its subsidiaries, branches, divisions, or affiliates utilizes a payroll deduction plan, check-off system, or other plan which deducts contributions from the dividend or payroll checks of stockholders or executive or administrative personnel, the corporation shall, upon written request of the labor organization, make that method available to members of the labor organization working for the corporation, its subsidiaries, branches, divisions, or affiliates, who wish to contribute to the separate segregated fund of the labor organization representing any members working for the corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, branches, divisions, or affiliates. The corporation shall make the payroll deduction plan available to the labor organization at a cost sufficient only to reimburse the corporation for the actual expenses incurred thereby.

(2) If a corporation uses a computer for addressing envelopes or labels for a solicitation to its stockholders or executive or administrative personnel, the corporation shall, upon written request, program the computer to enable the labor organization to solicit its members. The corporation shall charge the labor organization a cost sufficient only to reimburse the corporation for the actual expenses incurred in programming the computers and the allocated cost of employee time relating to the work, and the materials used.

(3) If a corporation uses corporate facilities, such as a company dining room or cafeteria, for meetings of stockholders or executive or administrative personnel at which solicitations are made, the corporation shall upon written request of the labor organization allow that labor organization to use existing corporate facilities for meetings to solicit its members. The labor organization shall be required to reimburse the corporation for any actual expenses incurred thereby, such as any increase in the overhead to the corporation and any cost involved in setting up the facilities.

(4) If a corporation uses no method to solicit voluntary contributions or to facilitate the making of voluntary contributions from stockholders or executive or administrative personnel, it is not required by law to make any method available to the labor organization for its members. The corporation and the labor organization may agree upon making any lawful method available even though such agreement is not required by the Act.

(5) The availability of methods of twice yearly solicitations is subject to the provisions of ยง 114.6(e).
