
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.6 Twice yearly solicitations.
###### The custodial arrangement.

(d)In order to maintain the anonymity of persons who do not wish to contribute and of persons who wish to respond with a single contribution of $50 or less, or multiple contributions aggregating $200 or less in a calendar year, and to satisfy the recordkeeping provisions, the corporation, labor organization, or separate segregated fund of either shall establish a custodial arrangement for collecting the contributions under this section.

(1) The custodian for a separate segregated fund established by a corporation shall not be a stockholder, officer, executive or administrative personnel, or employee of the corporation, or an officer, or employee of its separate segregated fund. The custodian for a separate segregated fund established by a labor organization shall not be a member, officer or employee of the labor organization or its separate segregated fund.

(2) The custodian shall keep the records of contributions received in accordance with the requirements of part 102 and shall also-

(i) Establish a separate account and deposit contributions in accordance with the provisions of part 103;

(ii) Provide the fund with the identification of any person who makes a single contribution of more than $50 and the identification of any person who makes multiple contributions aggregating more than $200. The custodian must provide this information within a reasonable time prior to the reporting date of the fund under part 104;

(iii) Periodically forward all funds in the separate account, by check drawn on that account, to the separate segregated fund; and

(iv) Treat all funds which appear to be illegal in accordance with the provisions of ยง 103.3(b).

(3) The custodian shall not-

(i) Make the records of persons making a single contribution of $50 or less, or multiple contributions aggregating $200 or less, in a calendar year, available to any person other than representatives of the Federal Election Commission and law enforcement officials or judicial bodies.

(ii) Provide the corporation or labor organization or the separate segregated fund of either with any information pertaining to persons who, in a calendar year, make a single contribution of $50 or less or multiple contributions aggregating $200 or less except that the custodian may forward to the corporation, labor organization or separate segregated fund of either the total number of contributions received; or

(iii) Provide the corporation, labor organization, or the separate segregated fund of either with any information pertaining to persons who have not contributed.

(4) The corporation, labor organization, or the separate segregated fund of either shall provide the custodian with a list of all contributions, indicating the contributor's identification and amount contributed, which have been made directly to the separate segregated fund by any person within the group of persons solicited under this section.

(5) Notwithstanding the prohibitions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the custodian may be employed by the separate segregated fund as its treasurer and may handle all of its contributions, provided that the custodian preserves the anonymity of the contributors as required by this section. The custodian shall file the required reports with the Federal Election Commission. A custodian who serves as treasurer is subject to all of the duties, responsibilities, and liabilities of a treasurer under the Act, and may not participate in the decision making process whereby the separate segregated fund makes contributions and expenditures.
