
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.7 Membership organizations, cooperatives, or corporations without capital stock.

(a) Membership organizations, cooperatives, or corporations without capital stock, or separate segregated funds established by such persons may solicit contributions to the fund from members and executive or administrative personnel, and their families, of the organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock.

(b) Nothing in this section waives the prohibition on contributions to the separate segregated fund by corporations, national banks, or labor organizations which are members of a membership organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock.

(c) A trade association whose membership is made up in whole or in part of corporations is subject to the provisions of ยง 114.8 when soliciting any stockholders or executive or administrative personnel of member corporations. A trade association which is a membership organization may solicit its noncorporate members under the provisions of this section.

(d) The question of whether a professional organization is a corporation is determined by the law of the State in which the professional organization exists.

(e) There is no limitation upon the number of times an organization under this section may solicit its members and executive or administrative personnel, and their families.

(f) There is no limitation under this section on the method of solicitation or the method of facilitating the making of voluntary contributions which may be used.

(g) A membership organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock and the separate segregated funds of the organizations are subject to the provisions in ยง 114.5(a).

(h) A membership organization, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock may communicate with its members and executive or administrative personnel, and their families, under the provisions of ยง 114.3.

(i) A mutual life insurance company may solicit its policyholders if the policyholders are members within the organizational structure.

(j) A membership organization, including a trade association, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock or a separate segregated fund established by such organization may not solicit contributions from the separate segregated funds established by its members. The separate segregated fund established by a membership organization, including a trade association, cooperative, or corporation without capital stock may, however, accept unsolicited contributions from the separate segregated funds established by its members.

(k)(1) A federated cooperative as defined in the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1929, 12 U.S.C. 1141j, or a rural cooperative eligible for assistance under chapter 31 or title 7 of the United States Code, may solicit the members of the cooperative's regional, state or local affiliates, provided that all of the political committees established, financed, maintained or controlled by the cooperative and its regional, State or local affiliates are considered one political committee for the purposes of the limitations in 11 CFR 110.1 and 110.2.

(2) A cooperative as described in paragraph (k)(1) of this section may make communications to its members under the provisions of 11 CFR 114.3.
