
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.8 Trade associations.
###### Separate and specific approval.

(d)(1) The member corporation must knowingly and specifically approve any solicitation for a trade association, whether the solicitation is done by the trade association, its separate segregated fund, or the corporation or any of its personnel, for contributions to the trade association's separate segregated fund.

(2) A copy of each approved request received by a trade association or its separate segregated fund shall be maintained by the trade association or its fund for three years from the year for which the approval is given.

(3) The request for approval may contain a copy of solicitation materials which will be used if approval is granted. Such a mailing must specifically indicate the requirement of approval and the limitation of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and approval must be granted to the trade association or its separate segregated fund prior to the time any solicitation is made of the stockholders or executive or administrative personnel by the trade association, its separate segregated fund, or by the corporation for contributions to the separate segregated fund of the trade association. (The request for approval may be sent to the representatives of the corporation with whom the trade association normally conducts the association's activities.)

(4) A separate authorization specifically allowing a trade association to solicit its corporate member's stockholders, and executive or administrative personnel applies through the calendar year for which it is designated. A separate authorization by the corporate member must be designated for each year during which the solicitation is to occur. This authorization may be requested and may also be received prior to the calendar year in which the solicitation is to occur.

(5) In its request to a member corporation, a trade association may indicate that it intends to solicit, for example, a limited class of the executive or administrative personnel of the member corporation, or only the executive or administrative personnel but not the stockholders of the member corporation. Moreover, in its approval, a member corporation may similarly limit any solicitation by the trade association or its separate segregated fund. In any event, a member corporation, once it has approved any solicitation-even to a limited extent-of its personnel or stockholders by a trade association or its separate segregated fund, is precluded from approving any such solicitation by another trade association or its separate segregated fund and the corporation and its personnel are precluded from soliciting the corporation's executive or administrative personnel or stockholders on behalf of another trade association or its separate segregated fund.
