
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.8 Trade associations.
###### Solicitation.

(e)(1) After a trade association has obtained the approval required in paragraph (c) of this section, there is no limit on the number of times the trade association or its separate segregated fund may solicit the persons approved by the member corporation during the calendar year to which the approval applies. The member corporation may, however, in its approval limit the number of times solicitations may be made.

(2) A member corporation which grants permission to a trade association to solicit is in no way restricted in its rights under ยง 114.5(g) to solicit its stockholders or executive or administrative personnel and their families for contributions to the corporation's own separate segregated fund.

(3) There is no limitation on the method of soliciting voluntary contributions or the method of facilitating the making of voluntary contributions which a trade association may use.

(4) A corporation may provide incidental services to collect and forward contributions from its employee stockholders and executive and administrative personnel to the separate segregated fund of a trade association of which the corporation is a member, including a payroll deduction or check-off system, upon written request of the trade association. Any corporation that provides such incidental services, and the corporation's subsidiaries, branches, divisions, and affiliates, shall make those incidental services available to a labor organization representing any members working for the corporation or the corporation's subsidiaries, branches, divisions, or affiliates, upon written request of the labor organization and at a cost sufficient only to reimburse the corporation or the corporation's subsidiaries, branches, divisions, and affiliates, for the expenses incurred thereby.

(5) A trade association and/or its separate segregated fund is subject to the provisions of ยง 114.5(a).
