
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 114 - CORPORATE AND LABOR ORGANIZATION ACTIVITY
##### ยง 114.11 Employee participation plans.
###### i.e.,trustee plan

(a) A corporation may establish and administer an employee participation plan (, a) which is a political giving program in which a corporation pays the cost of establishing and administering separate bank accounts for any employee who wishes to participate. The cost of administering and establishing includes the payment of costs for a payroll deduction or check-off plan and the cost of maintaining the separate bank accounts.

(1) The employees must exercise complete control and discretion over the disbursement of the monies in their accounts.

(2) The trustee, bank, or other administrator shall not provide the corporation or its separate segregated fund any report of the source or recipient of any contribution(s) or donation(s) into or out of any account or of the amount any employee has in an account.

(3) The trustee, bank, or other administrator may provide the corporation or its separate segregated fund with a periodic report limited to information about the total number of employees in the program, the total number of funds in all the accounts combined, and the total amount of contributions made to all candidates and committees combined.

(4) No stockholder, director, or employee of the corporation or its separate segregated fund may exert pressure of any kind to induce participation in the program.

(5) No stockholder, director, or employee of the corporation or its separate segregated fund may exercise any direction or control, either oral or written, over contributions by participants in the program to any candidate, group of candidates, political party, or other person.

(b) An employee participation plan must be made available to all employees including members of a labor organization who are employees of the corporation. Communications about participation in the plan may be conducted by either the corporation or the labor organization or both.

(c) A labor organization may establish and administer an employee participation plan subject to the above provisions, except that the cost shall be borne by the labor organization.

(d) The method used to transmit employee or member contributions to the candidate or political committee may not in any manner identify the corporation or labor organization which established the employee particiption plan.
