
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 115 - FEDERAL CONTRACTORS
##### ยง 115.1 Definitions.
###### A Federal contractor

(a)means a person, as defined in 11 CFR 100.10 who-

(1) Enters into any contract with the United States or any department or agency thereof either for-

(i) The rendition of personal services; or

(ii) Furnishing any material, supplies, or equipment; or

(iii) Selling any land or buildings;

(2) If the payment for the performance of the contract or payment for the material, supplies, equipment, land, or building is to be made in whole or in part from funds appropriated by the Congress.

(b) The period during which a person is prohibited from making a contribution or expenditure is the time between the earlier of the commencement of negotiations or when the requests for proposals are sent out, and the later of-

(1) The completion of performance under; or

(2) The termination of negotiations for, the contract or furnishing of material, supplies, equipment, land, or buildings, or the rendition of personal services.

(c) For purposes of this part, a contract includes

(1) A sole source, negotiated, or advertised procurement conducted by the United States or any of its agencies;

(2) A written (except as otherwise authorized) contract, between any person and the United States or any of its departments or agencies, for the furnishing of personal property, real property, or personal services; and

(3) Any modification of a contract.

(d) The basic contractual relationship must be with the United States or any department or agency thereof. A person who contracts with a State or local jurisdiction or entity other than the United States or any department or agency thereof is not subject to this part, even if the State or local jurisdiction or entity is funded in whole or in part from funds appropriated by the Congress. The third party beneficiary of a Federal contract is not subject to the prohibitions of this part.

(e) The term labor organization has the meaning given it by ยง 114.1(a).
