
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### PART 1 - PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 1.4 Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests.

(a) After being informed by the Commission that a record system contains a record pertaining to him or her, an individual may request the Commission to disclose that record in the manner described in this section. Each request for the disclosure of a record or a copy of it shall be made at the Federal Election Commission at the street address identified in the definition of "Commission" in ยง 1.2, and to the system manager identified in the notice describing the systems of records, either in writing or in person. Requests may be made by specifically authorized agents or by parents or guardians of individuals.

(b) Each individual requesting the disclosure of a record or copy of a record shall furnish the following information with his or her request:

(1) The name of the record system containing the record;

(2) Proof as described in paragraph (c) of this section that he or she is the individual to whom the requested record relates;

(3) Any other information required by the notice describing the record system.

(c) Proof of identity as required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be provided as described in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section. Requests made by an agent, parent, or guardian, shall be in accordance with the procedures described in ยง 1.10.

(1) Requests made in writing shall include a statement, signed by the individual and either notarized or witnessed by two persons (including witnesses' addresses). If the individual appears before a notary, he or she shall submit adequate proof of identification in the form of a drivers license, birth certificate, passport or other identification acceptable to the notary. If the statement is witnessed, it shall include a sentence above the witnesses' signatures that they personally know the individual or that the individual has submitted proof of his or her identification to their satisfaction. In any case in which, because of the extreme sensitivity of the record sought to be seen or copied, the Commission determines that the identification is not adequate, it may request the individual to submit additional proof of identification.

(2) If the request is made in person, the requestor shall submit proof of identification similar to that described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, acceptable to the Commission. The individual may have a person of his or her own choosing accompany him or her when the record is disclosed.
