
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter C - Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 - (BCRA) Regulations
#### PART 300 - NON-FEDERAL FUNDS
##### Subpart B - State, District, and Local Party Committees and Organizations
###### ยง 300.30 Accounts.
####### Allocation accounts.

(4)At the discretion of the party committee or organization, separate allocation accounts may be established for purposes of making allocable expenditures and disbursements.

(i) Only funds from the party organization's or committee's Federal and non-Federal accounts may be deposited into an allocation account used to make allocable expenditures and disbursements for activities in connection with Federal and non-Federal elections.

(ii) Only funds from the party organization's or committee's Federal account and Levin funds from its non-Federal or Levin account(s) may be deposited into an allocation account used to make allocable expenditures and disbursements for activities undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32(b).

(iii) Once a party organization or committee has established a separate allocation account for activities in connection with Federal and non-Federal elections and a separate account for activities undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32(b), all allocable expenses must be paid from the appropriate allocation account for as long as that account is maintained.

(iv) The party organization or committee must transfer to the appropriate allocation account funds from its Federal and non-Federal or Levin accounts in amounts proportionate to the Federal, non-Federal and Levin shares of each allocable expense pursuant to 11 CFR 106.7 and 11 CFR 300.33. The transfers must be made pursuant to 11 CFR 300.33 and 300.34.

(v) No funds contained in an allocation account may be transferred to any other account maintained by the party committee or organization.

(vi) For reporting purposes, all allocation accounts must be treated as Federal accounts.
