
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter C - Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 - (BCRA) Regulations
#### PART 300 - NON-FEDERAL FUNDS
##### Subpart B - State, District, and Local Party Committees and Organizations
###### ยง 300.30 Accounts.
####### Required account or accounts.

(c)Each State, district, and local party organization or committee that has receipts or makes disbursements for Federal election activity must establish its accounts in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1), or (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section.

(1) One or more Federal accounts in a campaign depository, in accordance with 11 CFR part 103, which must be treated as a separate political committee and be required to comply with the requirements of the Act including the registration and reporting requirements of 11 CFR part 102 and part 104. State, district, and local party organizations or committees may choose to make non-Federal disbursements, subject to State law, and disbursements for Federal election activity from a Federal account provided that such disbursements are reported pursuant to 11 CFR 104.17 and 11 CFR 300.36, and provided that contributors of the Federal funds so used were notified that their contributions were subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act.

(2) Establish at least three separate accounts in depositories as follows-

(i) One or more Federal accounts;

(ii) One or more Levin accounts; and

(iii) One or more Non-Federal accounts.

(3) Establish two separate accounts in depositories as follows:

(i) One or more Federal accounts, and;

(ii) An account that must function as both a Non-Federal account and a Levin account. If such an account is used, the State, district, and local party must demonstrate through a reasonable accounting method approved by the Commission (including any method embedded in software provided or approved by the Commission) that whenever such organization makes a disbursement for activities undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32(b), that organization had received sufficient contributions or Levin funds to make such disbursement.
