
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter C - Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 - (BCRA) Regulations
#### PART 300 - NON-FEDERAL FUNDS
##### Subpart B - State, District, and Local Party Committees and Organizations
###### ยง 300.32 Expenditures and disbursements.
####### Federal funds.

(a)(1) An association or similar group of candidates for State or local office, or an association or similar group of individuals holding State or local office, must make any expenditures or disbursements for Federal election activity solely with Federal funds.

(2) Except as provided in this part, a State, district, or local committee of a political party that makes expenditures or disbursements for Federal election activity must use Federal funds for that purposes, subject to the provisions of this chapter.

(3) State, district, and local party committees that raise Federal funds through an activity where only Federal funds are raised, must pay the direct costs of such fundraising only with Federal funds. State, district, and local party committees that raise Federal funds and non-Federal funds through a joint fundraising activity under 11 CFR 106.7(d)(4) or a joint fundraiser under 11 CFR 102.17, where the Federal funds are to be used, in whole or in part, for Federal election activities, must either pay the direct costs of such fundraising only with Federal funds or allocate the direct costs in accordance with the funds received method described in 11 CFR 106.7(d)(4). The direct costs of a fundraising program or event include expenses for the solicitation of funds and for the planning and administration of actual fundraising programs and events.

(4) State, district, and local party committees that raise Levin funds to be used, in whole or in part, for Federal election activity must pay the direct costs of such fundraising with either Federal or Levin funds. The direct costs of a fundraising program or event include expenses for the solicitation of funds and for the planning and administration of actual fundraising programs and events.
