
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter C - Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 - (BCRA) Regulations
#### PART 300 - NON-FEDERAL FUNDS
##### ยง 300.1 Scope and effective date, and organization.
###### Organization of part.

(c)Part 300, which generally addresses non-Federal funds and closely related topics, is organized into five subparts. Each subpart is oriented to the perspective of a category of persons facing issues related to non-Federal funds.

(1) Subpart A of this part prescribes rules pertaining to national party committees, including general non-Federal funds prohibitions, fundraising, and donation prohibitions with regard to certain tax-exempt organizations, and reporting.

(2) Subpart B of this part pertains to State, district, and local political party committees and organizations. Subpart B of this part focuses on "Levin Amendment" to BCRA; office buildings; and fundraising and donation prohibitions with regard to certain tax-exempt organizations.

(3) Subpart C of this part addresses non-Federal funds from the perspective of tax-exempt organizations, setting out rules about prohibited fundraising for certain tax-exempt organizations by national party committees, State, district, and local party committees, and Federal candidates and officeholders.

(4) Subpart D of this part includes regulations pertaining to soliciting non-Federal funds from the perspective of Federal candidates and officeholders in Federal and non-Federal elections; including exceptions for those who are also State candidates and exemptions for those attending, speaking, and appearing as featured guests at fundraising events, or who solicit for certain tax-exempt organizations.

(5) Subpart E of this part focuses on State and local candidates, including regulations about using Federal funds for certain public communications, and exceptions for entirely non-Federal communications.

(6) For rules pertaining to convention and host committees, see 11 CFR part 9008.
