
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9003 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9003.1 Candidate and committee agreements.
###### Conditions.

(b)The candidates shall:

(1) Agree that they have the burden of proving that disbursements made by them or any authorized committee(s) or agent(s) thereof are qualified campaign expenses as defined in 11 CFR 9002.11.

(2) Agree that they and their authorized committee(s) shall comply with the documentation requirements set forth at 11 CFR 9003.5.

(3) Agree that they and their authorized committee(s) shall provide an explanation, in addition to complying with the documentation requirements, of the connection between any disbursements made by the candidates or the authorized committee(s) of the candidates and the campaign if requested by the Commission.

(4) Agree that they and their authorized committee(s) will keep and furnish to the Commission all documentation relating to receipts and disbursements including any books, records (including bank records for all accounts), all documentation required by this subchapter (including those required to be maintained under 11 CFR 9003.5), and other information that the Commission may request. If the candidate or the candidate's authorized committee maintains or uses computerized information containing any of the categories of data listed in 11 CFR 9003.6(a), the committee will provide computerized magnetic media, such as magnetic tapes or magnetic diskettes, containing the computerized information that meets the requirements of 11 CFR 9003.6(b) at the times specified in 11 CFR 9007.1(b)(1). Upon request, documentation explaining the computer system's software capabilities shall be provided, and such personnel as are necessary to explain the operation of the computer system's software and the computerized information prepared or maintained by the committee shall also be made available.

(5) Agree that they and their authorized committee(s) shall obtain and furnish to the Commission upon request all documentation relating to funds received and disbursements made on the candidate's behalf by other political committees and organizations associated with the candidate.

(6) Agree that they and their authorized committee(s) shall permit an audit and examination pursuant to 11 CFR part 9007 of all receipts and disbursements including those made by the candidate, all authorized committees and any agent or person authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the candidate or committee(s). The candidate and authorized committee(s) shall facilitate the audit by making available in one central location, office space, records and such personnel as are necessary to conduct the audit and examination, and shall pay any amounts required to be repaid under 11 CFR part 9007.

(7) Submit the name and mailing address of the person who is entitled to receive payments from the Fund on behalf of the candidates; the name and address of the depository designated by the candidates as required by 11 CFR part 103 and 11 CFR 9005.2; and the name under which each account is held at the depository at which the payments from the Fund are to be deposited.
