
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9003 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9003.2 Candidate certifications.
###### personal funds,personal funds of his or her immediate family

(3) For purposes of this section, the termsandmean:

(i) Any assets which, under applicable state law, at the time he or she became a candidate, the candidate had legal right of access to or control over, and with respect to which the candidate had either:

(A) Legal and rightful title, or

(B) An equitable interest.

(ii) Salary and other earned income from bona fide employment; dividends and proceeds from the sale of the candidate's stocks or other investments; bequests to the candidate; income from trusts established before candidacy; income from trusts established by bequest after candidacy of which the candidate is a beneficiary; gifts of a personal nature which had been customarily received prior to candidacy; proceeds from lotteries and similar legal games of chance.

(iii) A candidate may use a portion of assets jointly owned with his or her spouse as personal funds. The portion of the jointly owned assets that shall be considered as personal funds of the candidate shall be that portion which is the candidate's share under the instrument(s) of conveyance or ownership. If no specific share is indicated by any instrument of conveyance or ownership, the value of one-half of the property used shall be considered as personal funds of the candidate.

(4) For purposes of this section, expenditures from personal funds made by a candidate of a political party for the office of Vice President shall be considered to be expenditures made by the candidate of such party for the office of President.

(5) Contributions made by members of a candidate's family from funds which do not meet the definition of personal funds under 11 CFR 9003.2(c)(3) shall not count against such candidate's $50,000 expenditure limitation under 11 CFR 9003.2(c).

(6) Personal funds expended pursuant to this section shall be first deposited in an account established in accordance with 11 CFR 9003.3 (b) or (c).

(7) The provisions of this section shall not operate to limit the candidate's liability for, nor the candidate's ability to pay, any repayments required under 11 CFR part 9007. If the candidate or his or her committee knowingly incurs expenditures in excess of the limitations of 11 CFR 110.8(a), the Commission may seek civil penalties under 11 CFR part 111 in addition to any repayment determinations made on the basis of such excessive expenditures.

(8) Expenditures made using a credit card for which the candidate is jointly or solely liable will count against the limits of this section to the extent that the full amount due, including any finance charge, is not paid by the committee within 60 days after the closing date of the billing statement on which the charges first appear. For purposes of this section, the "closing date" shall be the date indicated on the billing statement which serves as the cutoff date for determining which charges are included on that billing statement.
