
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9003 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9003.3 Allowable contributions; General election legal and accounting compliance fund.
###### Legal and accounting compliance fund-major party candidates,Sources.

(a)-(1)(i) A major party candidate, or an individual who is seeking the nomination of a major party, may accept contributions to a legal and accounting compliance fund if such contributions are received and disbursed in accordance with this section. A general election legal and accounting compliance fund ("GELAC") may be established by such individual prior to being nominated or selected as the candidate of a political party for the office of President or Vice President of the United States. Before April 1 of the calendar year in which a Presidential general election is held, contributions may only be deposited in the GELAC if they are made for the primary and exceed the contributor's contribution limits for the primary and are lawfully redesignated for the GELAC pursuant to 11 CFR 110.1.

(A) All solicitations for contributions to the GELAC shall clearly state that Federal law prohibits private contributions from being used for the candidate's election and that contributions will be used solely for legal and accounting services to ensure compliance with Federal law, and shall clearly state how contribution checks should be made payable. Contributions shall not be solicited for the GELAC before April 1 of the calendar year in which a Presidential general election is held. If the candidate does not become the nominee, all contributions accepted for the GELAC, including redesignated contributions, shall be refunded within sixty (60) days after the candidate's date of ineligibility.

(B) Contributions to the GELAC shall be subject to the limitations and prohibitions of 11 CFR parts 110, 114, and 115.

(C) Contributions shall be deposited in the GELAC only if they are designated in writing for the GELAC, or transferred pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of this section. Any contribution which otherwise could be matched pursuant to 11 CFR 9034.2 shall not be considered designated in writing for the GELAC unless the contributor specifically redesignates it for the GELAC or unless it is accompanied by a proper designation for the GELAC. Any contribution that is designated in writing or redesignated for the GELAC shall not be matched pursuant to 11 CFR 9034.2.

(ii)(A) Contributions made during the matching payment period that do not exceed the contributor's limit for the primary election may be redesignated for the GELAC and subsequently transferred to the GELAC before the nomination only if-
