
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9003 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9003.3 Allowable contributions; General election legal and accounting compliance fund.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(I) To defray winding down expenses for legal and accounting compliance activities incurred after the end of the expenditure report period by either the candidate's primary election committee, general election committee, or both committees. For purposes of this section, 100% of salary, overhead and computer expenses incurred after the end of the expenditure report period shall be considered winding down expenses for legal and accounting compliance activities payable from GELAC funds, and will be presumed to be solely to ensure compliance with 52 U.S.C. 30101and 26 U.S.C. 9001

(ii)(A) Expenditures for payroll (including payroll taxes), overhead and computer services, a portion of which are related to ensuring compliance with Title 52 of the United States Code and Chapter 95 of Title 26 of the United States Code, shall be initially paid from the candidate's Federal fund account under 11 CFR 9005.2 and may be later reimbursed by the compliance fund. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, a candidate may use contributions to the GELAC to reimburse his or her Federal fund account an amount equal to 10% of the payroll and overhead expenditures of his or her national campaign headquarters and state offices.

(B) Overhead expenditures include, but are not limited to rent, utilities, office equipment, furniture, supplies and all telephone charges except for telephone charges related to a special use such as voter registration and get out the vote efforts.

(C) If the candidate wishes to claim a larger compliance exemption for payroll or overhead expenditures, the candidate shall establish allocation percentages for each individual who spends all or a portion of his or her time to perform duties which are considered necessary to ensure compliance with Title 52 of the United States Code or chapter 95 of title 26 of the United States Code. The candidate shall keep detailed records to support the derivation of each percentage. Such records shall indicate which duties are considered compliance and the percentage of time each person spends on such activity.

(D) In addition, a candidate may use contributions to the GELAC to reimburse his or her Federal fund account an amount equal to 50% of the costs (other than payroll) associated with computer services. Such costs include but are not limited to rental and maintenance of computer equipment, data entry services not performed by committee personnel, and related supplies.
