
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9003 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9003.3 Allowable contributions; General election legal and accounting compliance fund.
###### et seq.,,et seq.

(E) If the candidate wishes to claim a larger compliance exemption for costs associated with computer services, the candidate shall establish allocation percentages for each computer function that is considered necessary, in whole or in part, to ensure compliance with 52 U.S.C. 30101and 26 U.S.C. 9001The allocation shall be based on a reasonable estimate of the costs associated with each computer function, such as the costs for data entry services performed by persons other than committee personnel and processing time. The candidate shall keep detailed records to support such calculations. The records shall indicate which computer functions are considered compliance-related and shall reflect which costs are associated with each computer function.

(F) The Commission's Financial Control and Compliance Manual for General Election Candidates Receiving Public Funding contains some accepted alternative allocation methods for determining the amount of salaries and overhead expenditures that may be considered exempt compliance costs.

(G) Reimbursement from the GELAC may be made to the separate account maintained for federal funds under 11 CFR 9005.2 for legal and accounting compliance services disbursements that are initially paid from the separate federal funds account. Such reimbursement must be made prior to any repayment determination by the Commission pursuant to 11 CFR 9007.2. Any amounts so reimbursed to the Federal funds account may not subsequently be transferred back to the GELAC.
