
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9003 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9003.3 Allowable contributions; General election legal and accounting compliance fund.
###### Contributions to defray qualified campaign expenses-major party candidates.

(b)(1) A major party candidate or his or her authorized committee(s) may solicit contributions to defray qualified campaign expenses to the extent necessary to make up any deficiency in payments received from the Fund due to the application of 11 CFR 9005.2(b).

(2) Such contributions may be deposited in a separate account or may be deposited with federal funds received under 11 CFR 9005.2. Disbursements from this account shall be made only to defray qualified campaign expenses and to defray the cost of soliciting contributions to such account. All disbursements from this account shall be documented in accordance with 11 CFR 9003.5 and shall be reported in accordance with 11 CFR 9006.1.

(3) A candidate may make transfers to this account from his or her GELAC, or from the candidate's primary election account in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.

(4) The contributions received under this section shall be subject to the limitations and prohibitions of 11 CFR parts 110, 114 and 115 and shall be aggregated with all contributions made by the same persons to the candidate's GELAC under paragraph (a) of this section for the purposes of such limitations.

(5) Any costs incurred for soliciting contributions to this account shall not be considered expenditures to the extent that the aggregate of such costs does not exceed 20 percent of the expenditure limitation under 11 CFR 9003.2(a)(1). These costs shall, however, be reported as disbursements in accordance with 11 CFR part 104 and 11 CFR 9006.1. For purposes of this section, a candidate may exclude from the expenditure limitation an amount equal to 10% of the payroll (including payroll taxes) and overhead expenditures of his or her national campaign headquarters and state offices as exempt fundraising costs. The candidate may claim a larger fundraising exemption by establishing allocation percentages for employees using the method described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.
