
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9004 - ENTITLEMENT OF ELIGIBLE CANDIDATES TO PAYMENTS; USE OF PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9004.7 Allocation of travel expenditures.

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of 11 CFR 106.3, expenditures for travel relating to a Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate's campaign by any individual, including a candidate, shall, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, be qualified campaign expenses and be reported by the candidate's authorized committee(s) as expenditures.

(b)(1) For a trip which is entirely campaign-related, the total cost of the trip shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure.

(2) For a trip which includes campaign-related and non-campaign related stops, that portion of the cost of the trip allocable to campaign activity shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure. Such portion shall be determined by calculating what the trip would have cost from the point of origin of the trip to the first campaign-related stop and from the stop through each subsequent campaign-related stop to the point of origin. If any campaign activity, other than incidental contacts, is conducted at a stop, that stop shall be considered campaign-related. Campaign activity includes soliciting, making, or accepting contributions, and expressly advocating the election or defeat of the candidate. Other factors, including the setting, timing and statements or expressions of the purpose of an event, and the substance of the remarks or speech made, will also be considered in determining whether a stop is campaign-related.

(3) For each trip, an itinerary shall be prepared and such itinerary shall be made available by the committee for Commission inspection. The itinerary shall show the time of arrival and departure and the type of events held.

(4) For trips by government conveyance or by charter, a list of all passengers on such trip, along with a designation of which passengers are and which are not campaign-related, shall be made available for Commission inspection. When required to be created, a copy of the government's or charter company's official manifest shall also be maintained and made available by the committee.

(5)(i) If any individual, including a candidate, uses a government aircraft for campaign-related travel, the candidate's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to the applicable rate set forth in 11 CFR 100.93(e).

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) If any individual, including a candidate, uses a government conveyance, other than an aircraft, for campaign-related travel, the candidate's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to the amount required under 11 CFR 100.93(d).

(iv) If any individual, including a candidate, uses accommodations, including lodging and meeting rooms, during campaign-related travel, and the accommodations are paid for by a government entity, the candidate's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to the usual and normal charge for the accommodations, and shall maintain documentation supporting the amount paid.

(v) For travel by aircraft, the committee shall maintain documentation as required by 11 CFR 100.93(j)(1) in addition to any other documentation required in this section. For travel by other conveyances, the committee shall maintain documentation of the commercial rental rate as required by 11 CFR 100.93(j)(3) in addition to any other documentation required in this section.

(6) Travel expenses of a candidate's spouse and family when accompanying the candidate on campaign-related travel may be treated as qualified campaign expenses and reportable expenditures. If the spouse or family members conduct campaign-related activities, their travel expenses shall be qualified campaign expenses and reportable expenditures.

(7) If any individual, including a candidate, incurs expenses for campaign-related travel, other than by use of government conveyance or accommodations, an amount equal to that portion of the actual cost of the conveyance or accommodations which is allocable to all passengers, including the candidate, who are traveling for campaign purposes shall be a qualified campaign expense and shall be reported by the committee as an expenditure.

(i) If the trip is by charter, the actual cost for each passenger shall be determined by dividing the total operating cost for the charter by the total number of passengers transported. The amount which is a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure shall be calculated in accordance with the formula set forth at 11 CFR 9004.7(b)(2) on the basis of the actual cost per passenger multiplied by the number of passengers traveling for campaign purposes.

(ii) If the trip is by non-charter commercial transportation, the actual cost shall be calculated in accordance with the formula set forth at 11 CFR 9004.7(b)(2) on the basis of the commercial fare. Such actual cost shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure.

(8) Non-commercial travel, as defined in 11 CFR 100.93(a)(3)(v), on aircraft, and travel on other means of transportation not operated for commercial passenger service, is governed by 11 CFR 100.93.
