
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9004 - ENTITLEMENT OF ELIGIBLE CANDIDATES TO PAYMENTS; USE OF PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9004.9 Net outstanding qualified campaign expenses.
###### Candidates receiving post-election funding.

(a)A candidate who is eligible to receive post-election payments under 11 CFR 9004.3 shall file, no later than 20 calendar days after the date of the election, a preliminary statement of that candidate's net outstanding qualified campaign expenses. The candidate's net outstanding qualified campaign expenses under this section equal the difference between 11 CFR 9004.9(a) (1) and (2).

(1) The total of:

(i) All outstanding obligations for qualified campaign expenses as of the date of the election; plus

(ii) An estimate of the amount of qualified campaign expenses that will be incurred by the end of the expenditure report period; plus

(iii) An estimate of the necessary winding down costs, as defined under 11 CFR 9004.4(a)(4), submitted in the format required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section; less

(2) The total of:

(i) Cash on hand as of the close of business on the day of the election, including: All contributions dated on or before that date; currency; balances on deposit in banks, savings and loan institutions, and other depository institutions; traveler's checks; certificates of deposit; treasury bills; and any other committee investments valued at fair market value;

(ii) The fair market value of capital assets and other assets on hand; and

(iii) Amounts owed to the candidate's authorized committee(s) in the form of credits, refunds of deposits, returns, receivables, or rebates of qualified campaign expenses; or a commercially reasonable amount based on the collectibility of those credits, returns, receivables or rebates.

(3) The amount submitted as the total of outstanding campaign obligations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not include any accounts payable for non-qualified campaign expenses nor any amounts determined or anticipated to be required as a repayment under 11 CFR part 9007 or any amounts paid to secure a surety bond under 11 CFR 9007.5(c).

(4) The amount submitted as an estimate of necessary winding down costs under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall be broken down by expense category and quarterly or monthly time period. This breakdown shall include estimated costs for office space rental, staff salaries, legal expenses, accounting expenses, office supplies, equipment rental, telephone expenses, postage and other mailing costs, printing and storage. The breakdown shall estimate the costs that will be incurred in each category from the time the statement is submitted until the expected termination of the committee's political activity.
