
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9004 - ENTITLEMENT OF ELIGIBLE CANDIDATES TO PAYMENTS; USE OF PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9004.9 Net outstanding qualified campaign expenses.
###### Capital assets and assets purchased from the primary election committee.,capital asset

(d)(1)(i) For purposes of this section, the termmeans any property used in the operation of the campaign whose purchase price exceeded $2000 when acquired by the committee. Property that must be valued as capital assets under this section includes, but is not limited to, office equipment, furniture, vehicles and fixtures acquired for use in the operation of the candidate's campaign, but does not include property defined as "other assets" under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Capital assets include items such as computer systems and telecommunications systems, if the equipment is used together and if the total cost of all components that are used together exceeds $2000. A list of all capital assets shall be maintained by the committee in accordance with 11 CFR 9003.5(d)(1). The fair market value of capital assets shall be considered to be 60% of the total original cost of such items when acquired, except that items received after the end of the expenditure report period must be valued at their fair market value on the date acquired. A candidate may claim a lower fair market value for a capital asset by listing that capital asset on the statement separately and demonstrating, through documentation, the lower fair market value.

(ii) If capital assets are obtained from the candidate's primary election committee, the purchase price shall be considered to be 60% of the original cost of such assets to the candidate's primary election committee. For purposes of the statement of net outstanding qualified campaign expenses filed after the end of the expenditure report period, the fair market value of capital assets obtained from the candidate's primary election committee shall be considered to be 20% of the original cost of such assets to the candidate's primary election committee.

(iii) Items purchased from the primary election committee that are not capital assets, and also are not other assets under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, shall be listed on an inventory that states their valuation.
