
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9005 - CERTIFICATION BY COMMISSION
##### ยง 9005.1 Certification of payments for candidates.
###### Certification of pre-election payments for minor and new party candidates.

(b)(1) Not later than 10 days after a minor or new party candidate has met all applicable conditions for eligibility to receive payments under 11 CFR 9003.1, 9003.2 and 9004.2, the Commission will make an initial determination of the amount, if any, to which the candidate is entitled. The Commission will base its determination on the percentage of votes received in the official vote count certified in each State. In notifying the candidate, the Commission will give the legal and factual reasons for its determination and advise the candidate of the evidence on which the determination is based.

(2) The candidate may submit, within 15 days after the Commission's initial determination, written legal or factual materials to demonstrate that a redetermination is appropriate. Such materials may be submitted by counsel if the candidate so desires.

(3) The Commission will consider any written legal or factual materials timely submitted by the candidate in making its final determination. A final determination of certification by the Commission will be accompanied by a written statement of reasons for the Commission's action. This statement will explain the reasons underlying the Commission's determination and will summarize the results of any investigation on which the determination is based.
