
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9005 - CERTIFICATION BY COMMISSION
##### ยง 9005.1 Certification of payments for candidates.
###### Certification of minor and new party candidates for post-election payments.

(c)(1) Not later than 30 days after the general election, the Commission will determine whether a minor or new party candidate is eligible for post-election payments.

(2) The Commission's determination of eligibility will be based on the following factors:

(i) The candidate has received at least 5% or more of the total popular vote based on unofficial vote results in each State;

(ii) The candidate has filed a preliminary statement of his or her net outstanding qualified campaign expenses pursuant to 11 CFR 9004.9(a); and

(iii) The candidate has met all applicable conditions for eligibility under 11 CFR 9003.1 and 9003.2.

(3) The Commission will notify the candidate of its initial determination of the amount, if any, to which the candidate is entitled, give the legal and factual reasons for its determination and advise the candidate of the evidence on which the determination is based. The Commission will also notify the candidate that it will deduct a percentage of the amount to which the candidate is entitled based on the unofficial vote results when the Commission certifies an amount for payment to the Secretary. This deduction will be based on the average percentage differential between the unofficial and official vote results for all candidates who received public funds in the preceding Presidential general election.

(4) The candidate may submit within 15 days after the Commission's initial determination written legal or factual materials to demonstrate that a redetermination is appropriate. Such materials may be submitted by counsel if the candidate so desires.

(5) The Commission will consider any written legal or factual materials timely submitted by the candidate in making its final determination. A final determination of certification by the Commission will be accompanied by a written statement of reasons for the Commission's action. This statement will explain the reasons underlying the Commission's determination and will summarize the results of any investigation on which the determination is based.

(d) All certifications made by the Commission pursuant to this section shall be final and conclusive, except to the extent that they are subject to examination and audit by the Commission under 11 CFR part 9007 and judicial review under 26 U.S.C. 9011.
