
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9008 - FEDERAL FINANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATING CONVENTIONS
##### Subpart A - Expenditures by National Committees and Convention Committees
###### ยง 9008.3 Eligibility for payments; registration and reporting.
####### Quarterly and post convention reports; content and time of filing.

(2)Each committee required to register under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall file reports as follows:

(i) The first quarterly report shall be filed on FEC Form 4 no later than 15 days following the end of the calendar quarter in which the committee either receives payment under 11 CFR 9008.6, or for parties which do not accept public funds, no later than 15 days after the calendar quarter in which the committee receives contributions or makes expenditures to defray convention expenses. The committee shall continue to file reports on a quarterly basis no later than the 15th day following the close of each calendar quarter, except that the report for the final calendar quarter of the year shall be filed on January 31 of the following calendar year. Quarterly reports shall be completed as of the close of the quarter and shall continue to be filed until the committee ceases activity in connection with that party's presidential nominating convention.

(ii) Any quarterly report due within 20 days before or after the convention shall be suspended and the committee shall in lieu of such quarterly report file a post convention report. The post convention report shall be filed on the earlier of: 60 days following the last day the convention is officially in session; or 20 days prior to the presidential general election. The post convention report shall be complete as of 15 days prior to the date on which the report must be filed.
