
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9008 - FEDERAL FINANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATING CONVENTIONS
##### Subpart A - Expenditures by National Committees and Convention Committees
###### ยง 9008.12 Repayments.
####### Unspent funds.

(5)(i) If any portion of the payment under 11 CFR 9008.4 remains unspent after all convention expenses have been paid, that portion shall be returned to the Secretary of the Treasury.

(ii) The national committee or convention committee shall make an interim repayment of unspent funds based on the financial position of the committee as of the end of the ninth month following the last day of the convention, allowing for a reasonable amount as determined by the Commission to be withheld for unanticipated contingencies. The interim repayment shall be made no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the ninth month following the last day of the convention. If, after written request by the national committee or convention committee, the Commission determines, upon review of evidence presented by either committee, that amounts previously refunded are needed to defray convention expenses, the Commission shall certify such amount for payment.

(iii) All unspent funds shall be repaid to the U.S. Treasury no later than 24 months after the last day of the convention, unless the national committee has been granted an extension of time. The Commission may grant any extension of time it deems appropriate upon request of the national committee.
