
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter E - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: General Election Financing
#### PART 9008 - FEDERAL FINANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATING CONVENTIONS
##### Subpart B - Host Committees and Municipal Funds Representing a Convention City
###### ยง 9008.51 Registration and reports.
####### Post-convention and quarterly reports by host committees and municipal funds; content and time of filing.

(b)(1) Each host committee or municipal fund required to register with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall file a post convention report on FEC Form 4. The report shall be filed on the earlier of: 60 days following the last day the convention is officially in session; or 20 days prior to the presidential general election. This report shall be complete as of 15 days prior to the date on which the report must be filed and shall disclose all the information required by 11 CFR part 104 with respect to all activities related to a presidential nominating convention.

(2) If such host committee or municipal fund has receipts or makes disbursements after the completion date of the post convention report, it shall begin to file quarterly reports no later than 15 days after the end of the following calendar quarter. This report shall disclose all transactions completed as of the close of that calendar quarter. Quarterly reports shall be filed thereafter until the host committee or municipal fund ceases all activity that must be reported under this section.

(3) Such host committee or municipal fund shall file a final report with the Commission not later than 10 days after it ceases activity that must be reported under this section, unless such status is reflected in either the post-convention report or a quarterly report.
