
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9032 - DEFINITIONS
##### ยง 9032.1 Authorized committee.
###### authorized committee,authorized committee

(a) Notwithstanding the definition at 11 CFR 100.5,means with respect to candidates (as defined at 11 CFR 9032.2) seeking the nomination of a political party for the office of President, any political committee that is authorized by a candidate to solicit or receive contributions or to incur expenditures on behalf of the candidate. The termincludes the candidate's principal campaign committee designated in accordance with 11 CFR 102.12, any political committee authorized in writing by the candidate in accordance with 11 CFR 102.13, and any political committee not disavowed by the candidate in writing pursuant to 11 CFR 100.3(a)(3).

(b) Any withdrawal of an authorization shall be in writing and shall be addressed and filed in the same manner provided for at 11 CFR 102.12 or 102.13.

(c) For the purposes of this subchapter, references to the "candidate" and his or her responsibilities under this subchapter shall also be deemed to refer to the candidate's authorized committee(s).

(d) An expenditure by an authorized committee on behalf of the candidate who authorized the committee cannot qualify as an independent expenditure.

(e) A delegate committee, as defined in 11 CFR 100.5(e)(5), is not an authorized committee of a candidate unless it also meets the requirements of 11 CFR 9032.1(a). Expenditures by delegate committees on behalf of a candidate may count against that candidate's expenditure limitation under the circumstances set forth in 11 CFR 110.14.
