
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9033 - ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS
##### ยง 9033.5 Determination of ineligibility date.
###### Insufficient votes.

(b)The ineligibility date shall be the 30th day following the date of the second consecutive primary election in which such individual receives less than 10 percent of the number of popular votes cast for all candidates of the same party for the same office in that primary election, if the candidate permitted or authorized his or her name to appear on the ballot, unless the candidate certifies to the Commission at least 25 business days prior to the primary that he or she will not be an active candidate in the primary involved.

(1) The Commission may refuse to accept the candidate's certification if it determines under 11 CFR 9033.7 that the candidate is an active candidate in the primary involved.

(2) For purposes of this paragraph, if the candidate is running in two primary elections in different States on the same date, the highest percentage of votes the candidate receives in any one State will govern. Separate primary elections held in more than one State on the same date are not deemed to be consecutive primaries. If two primary elections are held on the same date in the same State (e.g., a primary to select delegates to a national nominating convention and a primary for the expression of preference for the nomination of candidates for election to the office of President), the highest percentage of votes a candidate receives in either election will govern. If two or more primaries are held in the same State on different dates, the earliest primary will govern.

(3) If the candidate certifies that he or she will not be an active candidate in a particular primary, and the Commission accepts the candidate's certification, the primary involved shall not be counted in determining the candidate's date of ineligibility under paragraph (b) of this section, regardless of the percentage of popular votes cast for the candidate in that primary.
