
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.2 Matchable contributions.
###### signature

(c) The written instrument shall be: Payable on demand; and to the order of, or specifically endorsed without qualification to, the Presidential candidate, or his or her authorized committee. The written instrument shall contain: The full name and signature of the contributor(s); the amount and date of the contribution; and the mailing address of the contributor(s). For purposes of this section, the termmeans, in the case of a contribution by a credit card or debit card, either an actual signature by the cardholder who is the donor on a transaction slip or other writing, or in the case of such a contribution made over the Internet, the full name and card number of the cardholder who is the donor, entered and transmitted by the cardholder.

(1) In cases of a check drawn on a joint checking account, the contributor is considered to be the owner whose signature appears on the check.

(i) To be attributed equally to other joint tenants of the account, the check or other accompanying written document shall contain the signature(s) of the joint tenant(s). If a contribution on a joint account is to be attributed other than equally to the joint tenants, the check or other written documentation shall also indicate the amount to be attributed to each joint tenant.

(ii) In the case of a check for a contribution attributed to more than one person, where it is not apparent from the face of the check that each contributor is a joint tenant of the account, a written statement shall accompany the check stating that the contribution was made from each individual's personal funds in the amount so attributed and shall be signed by each contributor.

(iii) In the case of a contribution reattributed to a joint tenant of the account, the reattribution shall comply with the requirements of 11 CFR 110.1(k) and the documentation described in 11 CFR 110.1(l)(3), (5), and (6) shall accompany the reattributed contribution.

(2) Contributions in the form of checks drawn on an escrow or trust account are matchable contributions, provided that:

(i) The contributor has equitable ownership of the account; and

(ii) The check is accompanied by a statement, signed by each contributor to whom all or a portion of the contribution is being attributed, together with the check number, amount and date of contribution. This statement shall specify that the contributor has equitable ownership of the account and the account represents the personal funds of the contributor.

(3) Contributions in the form of checks written on partnership accounts or accounts of unincorporated associations or businesses are matchable contributions, so long as:

(i) The check is accompanied by a statement, signed by each contributor to whom all or a portion of the contribution is being attributed, together with the check number, amount and date of contribution. This statement shall specify that the contribution is made with the contributor's personal funds and that the account on which the contribution is drawn is not maintained or controlled by an incorporated entity; and

(ii) The aggregate amount of the contributions drawn on a partnership or unincorporated association or business does not exceed $1,000 to any one Presidential candidate seeking nomination.

(4) Contributions in the form of money orders, cashier's checks, or other similar negotiable instruments are matchable contributions, provided that:

(i) At the time it is initially submitted for matching, such instrument is signed by each contributor and is accompanied by a statement which specifies that the contribution was made in the form of a money order, cashier's check, traveler's check, or other similar negotiable instrument, with the contributor's personal funds;

(ii) Such statement identifies the date and amount of the contribution made by money order, cashier's check, traveler's check, or other similar negotiable instrument, the check or serial number, and the name of the issuer of the negotiable instrument; and

(iii) Such statement is signed by each contributor.
