
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.2 Matchable contributions.
###### i.e.

(5) Contributions in the form of the purchase price paid for the admission to any activity that primarily confers private benefits in the form of entertainment to the contributor (, concerts, motion pictures) are matchable. The promotional material and tickets for the event shall clearly indicate that the ticket purchase price represents a contribution to the Presidential candidate.

(6) Contributions in the form of a purchase price paid for admission to an activity that is essentially political are matchable. An "essentially political" activity is one the principal purpose of which is political speech or discussion, such as the traditional political dinner or reception.

(7) Contributions received from a joint fundraising activity conducted in accordance with 11 CFR 9034.8 are matchable, provided that such contributions are accompanied by a copy of the joint fundraising agreement when they are submitted for matching.

(8) Contributions by credit or debit card are matchable contributions, provided that:

(i) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section concerning a written instrument and of paragraph (c) of this section concerning a signature are satisfied. Contributions by credit card or debit card where the cardholder's name and card number are given to the recipient candidate or candidate's committee only orally are not matchable.

(ii) Evidence is submitted by the committee that the contributor has affirmed that the contribution is from personal funds and not from funds otherwise prohibited by law.
