
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.5 Net outstanding campaign obligations.
###### Capital assets.,capital assets

(c) (1)For purposes of this section, the termmeans any property used in the operation of the campaign whose purchase price exceeded $2000 when received by the committee. Property that must be valued as capital assets under this section includes, but is not limited to, office equipment, furniture, vehicles and fixtures acquired for use in the operation of the candidate's campaign, but does not include property defined as "other assets" under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Capital assets include items such as computer systems and telecommunications systems, if the equipment is used together and if the total cost of all components that are used together exceeds $2000. A list of all capital assets shall be maintained by the committee in accordance with 11 CFR 9033.11(d). The fair market value of capital assets shall be considered to be 60% of the total original cost of such items when acquired, except that items received after the date of ineligibility must be valued at their fair market value on the date received. A candidate may claim a lower fair market value for a capital asset by listing that capital asset on the statement separately and demonstrating, through documentation, the lower fair market value. If the candidate receives public funding for the general election, a lower fair market value shall not be claimed under this section for any capital assets transferred or sold to the candidate's general election committee.
