
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.5 Net outstanding campaign obligations.
###### Collectibility of accounts receivable.

(d)If the committee determines that an account receivable of $500 or more, including any credit, refund, return or rebate, is not collectible in whole or in part, the committee shall demonstrate through documentation that the determination was commercially reasonable. The documentation shall include records showing the original amount of the account receivable, copies of correspondence and memoranda of communications with the debtor showing attempts to collect the amount due, and an explanation of how the lesser amount or full writeoff was determined.

(e) Contributions received from joint fundraising activities conducted under 11 CFR 9034.8 may be used to pay a candidate's outstanding campaign obligations.

(1) Such contributions shall be deemed monies available to pay outstanding campaign obligations as of the date these funds are received by the fundraising representative committee and shall be included in the candidate's statement of net outstanding campaign obligations.

(2) The amount of money deemed available to pay a candidate's net outstanding campaign obligations will equal either-

(i) An amount calculated on the basis of the predetermined allocation formula, as adjusted for 52 U.S.C. 30116 limitations; or

(ii) If a candidate receives an amount greater than that calculated under 11 CFR 9034.5(e)(2)(i), the amount actually received.

(f)(1) With each submission for matching fund payments filed after the candidate's date of ineligibility, the candidate shall certify that, as of the close of business on the last business day preceding the date of submission for matching funds, his or her remaining net outstanding campaign obligations equal or exceed the amount submitted for matching.

(2) A candidate who makes a submission for matching fund payments after his or her date of ineligibility shall also submit a revised statement of net outstanding campaign obligations. This revised statement shall be due before the next regularly scheduled payment date, on a date to be determined and published by the Commission. This statement shall reflect the financial status of the campaign as of the close of business three business days before the due date of the statement. The revised statement shall also contain a brief explanation of each change in the committee's assets and obligations from the previous statement.

(3) After a candidate's date of ineligibility, if the candidate does not receive the entire amount of matching funds on a regularly scheduled payment date due to a shortfall in the matching payment account, the candidate shall also submit a revised statement of net outstanding campaign obligations. The revised statement shall be filed on a date to be determined and published by the commission, which will be before the next regularly scheduled payment date.

(g)(1) If the Commission receives information indicating that substantial assets of the candidate's authorized committee(s) have been undervalued or not included in the statement or that the amount of outstanding campaign obligations has been otherwise overstated in relation to committee assets, the Commission may decide to temporarily suspend further matching payments pending a final determination whether the candidate is entitled to receive all or a portion of the matching funds requested.

(2) In making a determination under 11 CFR 9034.5(g)(1), the Commission will follow the procedures for initial and final determinations under 11 CFR 9033.10 (b) and (c). The Commission will notify the candidate of its initial determination within 15 business days after receipt of the candidate's statement of net outstanding campaign obligations. Within 15 business days after service of the Commission's notice, the candidate may submit written legal or factual materials to demonstrate that he or she has net outstanding campaign obligations that entitle the campaign to further matching payments.

(3) If the candidate demonstrates that the amount of outstanding campaign obligations still exceeds committee assets, he or she may continue to receive matching payments.

(4) Following a final determination under this section, the candidate may file a petition for rehearing in accordance with 11 CFR 9038.5(a).
