
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.6 Expenditures for transportation and services made available to media personnel; reimbursements.
###### Reimbursement limits; billing.

(b)(1) The amount of reimbursement sought from a media representative under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not exceed 110% of the media representative's pro rata share (or a reasonable estimate of the media representative's pro rata share) of the actual cost of the transportation and services made available. Any reimbursement received in excess of this amount shall be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a media representative's pro rata share shall be calculated by dividing the total actual cost of the transportation and services provided by the total number of individuals to whom such transportation and services are made available. For purposes of this calculation, the total number of individuals shall include committee staff, media personnel, Secret Service personnel, national security staff and any other individuals to whom such transportation and services are made available, except that, when seeking reimbursement for transportation costs paid by the committee under 11 CFR 100.93 and 9034.7(b)(5)(i), the total number of individuals shall not include national security staff.

(3) No later than sixty (60) days of the campaign trip or event, the committee shall provide each media representative attending the event with an itemized bill that specifies the amounts charged for air and ground transportation for each segment of the trip, housing, meals, telephone service, and other billable items specified in the White House Press Corps Travel Policies and Procedures issued by the White House Travel Office. Payments shall be due sixty (60) days from the date of the bill, unless the media representative disputes the charges.
