
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.8 Joint fundraising.
###### Separate depository account.

(4)(i) The participants or the fundraising representative shall establish a separate depository account to be used solely for the receipt and disbursement of the joint fundraising proceeds. All contributions deposited into the separate depository account must be permissible under Title 52, United States Code. Each political committee shall amend its Statement of Organization to reflect the account as an additional depository.

(ii) The fundraising representative shall deposit all joint fundraising proceeds in the separate depository account within ten days of receipt as required by 11 CFR 103.3. The fundraising representative may delay distribution of the fundraising proceeds to the participants until all contributions are received and all expenses are paid.

(iii) For contribution reporting and limitation purposes, the date of receipt of a contribution by a participating political committee is the date that the contribution is received by the fundraising representative. The fundraising representative shall report contributions in the reporting period in which they are received. Participating political committees shall report joint fundraising proceeds in accordance with 11 CFR 9034.8(c)(9) when such funds are received from the fundraising representative.
