
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9034 - ENTITLEMENTS
##### ยง 9034.8 Joint fundraising.
###### Allocation of gross proceeds.

(7)(i) The fundraising representative shall allocate proceeds according to the formula stated in the fundraising agreement. Each contribution received shall be allocated among the participants in accordance with the allocation formula, unless the circumstances described in paragraphs (c)(7) (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section apply. Funds may not be distributed or reallocated so as to maximize the matchability of the contributions.

(ii) If distribution according to the allocation formula extinguishes the debts of one or more participants or if distribution under the formula results in a violation of the contribution limits of 11 CFR 110.1(b), the fundraising representative may reallocate the surplus funds. The fundraising representative shall not reallocate funds so as to allow candidates seeking to extinguish outstanding debts to rely on the receipt of matching funds to pay the remainder of their debts; rather, all funds to which a participant is entitled under the allocation formula shall be deemed funds available to pay the candidate's outstanding campaign obligations as provided in 11 CFR 9034.5(c).

(iii) Reallocation shall be based upon the remaining participant's proportionate shares under the allocation formula. If reallocation results in a violation of a contributor's limit under 11 CFR 110.1, the fundraising representative shall return to the contributor the amount of the contribution that exceeds the limit.

(iv) Earmarked contributions which exceed the contributor's limit to the designated participant under 11 CFR part 110 may not be reallocated by the fundraising representative without the prior written permission of the contributor. A written instrument made payable to one of the participants shall be considered an earmarked contribution unless a written statement by the contributor indicates that it is intended for inclusion in the general proceeds of the fundraising activity.
