
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9036 - REVIEW OF MATCHING FUND SUBMISSIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENTS BY COMMISSION
##### ยง 9036.1 Threshold submission.
###### Format for threshold submission.

(b)(1) For each State in which the candidate certifies that he or she has met the requirements of the certifications in 11 CFR 9033.2(b), the candidate shall submit an alphabetical list of contributors showing:

(i) Each contributor's full name and residential address;

(ii) The occupation and name of employer for individuals whose aggregate contributions exceed $200 in an election cycle;

(iii) The date of deposit of each contribution into the designated campaign depository;

(iv) The full dollar amount of each contribution submitted for matching purposes;

(v) The matchable portion of each contribution submitted for matching purposes;

(vi) The aggregate amount of all matchable contributions from that contributor submitted for matching purposes;

(vii) A notation indicating which contributions were received as a result of joint fundraising activities.

(2) For each list of contributors generated directly or indirectly from computerized files or computerized records, the candidate shall submit computerized magnetic media, such as magnetic tapes or magnetic diskettes, containing the information required by 11 CFR 9036.1(b)(1) in accordance with 11 CFR 9033.12.

(3) The candidate shall submit a full-size photocopy of each check or written instrument and of supporting documentation in accordance with 11 CFR 9034.2 for each contribution that the candidate submits to establish eligibility for matching funds. For purposes of the threshold submission, the photocopies shall be segregated alphabetically by contributor within each State, and shall be accompanied by and referenced to copies of the relevant deposit slips. In lieu of submitting photocopies, the candidate may submit digital images of checks and other materials in accordance with the procedures specified in 11 CFR 9036.2(b)(1)(vi). Digital images of contributions do not need to be segregated alphabetically by contributor within each State.

(4) The candidate shall submit bank documentation, such as bank-validated deposit slips or unvalidated deposit slips accompanied by the relevant bank statements, which indicate that the contributions submitted were deposited into a designated campaign depository.

(5) For each State in which the candidate certifies that he or she has met the requirements to establish eligibility, the candidate shall submit a listing, alphabetically by contributor, of all checks returned by the bank to date as unpaid (e.g., stop payments, non-sufficient funds) regardless of whether the contribution was submitted for matching. This listing shall be accompanied by a full-size photocopy of each unpaid check, and copies of the associated debit memo and bank statement.

(6) For each State in which the candidate certifies that he or she has met the requirements to establish eligibility, the candidate shall submit a listing, in alphabetical order by contributor, of all contributions that were refunded to the contributor, regardless of whether the contributions were submitted for matching. For each refunded contribution, the listing shall state the contributor's full name and address, the deposit date and batch number, an indication of which matching fund submission the contribution was included in, if any, and the amount and date of the refund. The listing shall be accompanied by a full-sized photocopy of each refunded contributor check.
