
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9036 - REVIEW OF MATCHING FUND SUBMISSIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENTS BY COMMISSION
##### ยง 9036.2 Additional submissions for matching fund payments.
###### Format for additional submissions.

(b)The candidate may obtain additional matching fund payments subsequent to the Commission's threshold certification and payment of primary matching funds to the candidate by filing an additional submission for payment. All additional submissions for payments filed by the candidate shall be made in accordance with the Federal Election Commission's Guideline for Presentation in Good Order.

(1) The first submission for matching funds following the candidate's threshold submission shall contain all the matchable contributions included in the threshold submission and any additional contributions to be submitted for matching in that submission. This submission shall contain all the information required for the threshold submission except that:

(i) The candidate is not required to resubmit the candidate agreement and certifications of 11 CFR 9033.1 and 9033.2;

(ii) The candidate is required to submit an alphabetical list of contributors (either solely in magnetic media from or in both printed and magnetic media forms), but not segregated by State as required in the threshold submission;

(iii) The candidate is required to submit a listing, alphabetical by contributor, of all checks returned unpaid, but not segregated by State as required in the threshold submission;

(iv) The candidate is required to submit a listing, in alphabetical order by contributor, of all contributions refunded to the contributor but not segregated by State as required in the threshold submission.

(v) The occupation and employer's name need not be disclosed on the contributor list for individuals whose aggregate contributions exceed $200 in the election cycle, but such information is subject to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of 52 U.S.C. 30102(c)(3), 30104(b)(3)(A) and 11 CFR 102.9(a)(2), 104.3(a)(4)(i); and

(vi) The photocopies of each check or written instrument and of supporting documentation shall either be alphabetized and referenced to copies of the relevant deposit slip, but not segregated by State as required in the threshold submission; or such photocopies may be batched in deposits of 50 contributions or less and cross-referenced by deposit number and sequence number within each deposit on the contributor list. In lieu of submitting photocopies, the candidate may submit digital images of checks, written instruments and deposit slips as specified in the Computerized Magnetic Media Requirements. The candidate may also submit digital images of contributor redesignations, reattributions and supporting statements and materials needed to verify the matchability of contributions. The candidate shall provide the computer equipment and software needed to retrieve and read the digital images, if necessary, at no cost to the Commission, and shall include digital images of every contribution received and imaged on or after the date of the previous matching fund request. Contributions and other documentation not imaged shall be submitted in photocopy form. The candidate shall maintain the originals of all contributor redesignations, reattributions and supporting statements and materials that are submitted for matching as digital images.
