
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9036 - REVIEW OF MATCHING FUND SUBMISSIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENTS BY COMMISSION
##### ยง 9036.4 Commission review of submissions.
###### Non-acceptance of submission for review of matchability.

(a)(1) The Commission will make an initial review of each submission made under 11 CFR part 9036 to determine if it substantially meets the format requirements of 11 CFR 9036.1(b) and 9036.2(b) and the Federal Election Commission's Guideline for Presentation in Good Order. If the Commission determines that a submission does not substantially meet these requirements, it will not review the matchability of the contributions contained therein.

(2) For submissions made in the year before the Presidential election year (other than submissions made on the last submission date in that year), and submissions made after the candidate's date of ineligibility, the Commission will stop reviewing the submission once the projected dollar value of nonmatchable contributions exceeds 15% of the amount requested, as provided in 11 CFR 9036.2 (c) or (d), as applicable.

(3) Under either paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, the Commission will return the submission to the candidate and request that it be corrected in accordance with the applicable requirements. If the candidate makes a corrected submission within 5 business days after the Commission's return of the original, the Commission will review the corrected submission prior to the next regularly scheduled submission date, and will certify to the Secretary the amount to which the candidate is entitled on the regularly scheduled certification date for the original submission. Corrected submissions made after this five-day period will be reviewed subsequent to the next regularly scheduled submission date, and the Commission will certify to the Secretary the amount to which the candidate is entitled on the next regularly scheduled certification date. Each corrected submission shall only contain contributions previously submitted for matching in the returned submission and no new or additional contributions.
