
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9036 - REVIEW OF MATCHING FUND SUBMISSIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENTS BY COMMISSION
##### ยง 9036.5 Resubmissions.
###### Format for resubmissions.

(c)All resubmissions filed by the candidate shall be made in accordance with the Federal Election Commission's Guideline for Presentation in Good Order. In making a presentation of resubmitted contributions, the candidate shall follow the format requirements as specified in 11 CFR 9036.2(b)(1), except that:

(1) The candidate need not provide photocopies of written instruments, supporting documentation and bank documentation unless it is necessary to supplement the original documentation.

(2) Each resubmitted contribution shall be referenced to the submission in which it was first presented.

(3) Each list of resubmitted contributions shall reflect the aggregate amount of contributions submitted for matching from each contributor as of the date of the original submission.

(4) Each list of resubmitted contributions shall reflect the aggregate amount of contributions submitted for matching from each contributor as of the date of the resubmission.

(5) Each list of resubmitted contributions shall only contain contributions previously submitted for matching and no new or additional contributions.

(6) Each resubmission shall be accompanied by a statement that the candidate has corrected his or her contributor records (including the data base for those candidates maintaining their contributor list on computer).
