
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9038 - EXAMINATIONS AND AUDITS
##### ยง 9038.1 Audit.
###### Conduct of fieldwork.

(b)(1) If the candidate or the candidate's authorized committee does not maintain or use any computerized information containing the data listed in 11 CFR 9033.12, the Commission will give the candidate's authorized committee at least two weeks' notice of the Commission's intention to commence fieldwork on the audit and examination. The fieldwork shall be conducted at a site provided by the committee. If the candidate or the candidate's authorized committee maintains or uses computerized information containing any of the data listed in 11 CFR 9033.12, the Commission generally will request such information prior to commencement of audit fieldwork. Such request will be made in writing. The committee shall produce the computerized information no later than 15 calendar days after service of such request. Upon receipt of the computerized information requested and compliance with the technical specifications of 11 CFR 9033.12(b), the Commission will give the candidate's authorized committee at least two weeks' notice of the Commission's intention to commence fieldwork on the audit and examination. The fieldwork shall be conducted at a site provided by the committee. During or after audit fieldwork, the Commission may request additional or updated computerized information which expands the coverage dates of computerized information previously provided, and which may be used for purposes including, but not limited to, updating a statement of net outstanding campaign obligations, or updating the amount chargeable to a state expenditure limit. During or after audit fieldwork, the Commission may also request additional computerized information which was created by or becomes available to the committee and that is of assistance in the Commission's audit. The committee shall produce the additional or updated computerized information no later than 15 calendar days after service of the Commission's request.
