
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9038 - EXAMINATIONS AND AUDITS
##### ยง 9038.1 Audit.
###### Failure to provide staff, records or office space.

(iii)If the candidate or his or her authorized committee(s) fail to provide adequate office space, personnel or committee records, the Commission may seek judicial intervention under 52 U.S.C. 30107 or 26 U.S.C. 9040(c) to enforce the candidate and committee agreement made under 11 CFR 9033.1(b). Before seeking judicial intervention, the Commission will notify the candidate of his or her failure to comply with the agreement and will recommend corrective action to bring the candidate into compliance. Upon receipt of the Commission's notification, the candidate will have 10 calendar days in which to take the corrective action indicated or to otherwise demonstrate to the Commission in writing that he or she is complying with the candidate and committee agreement.

(iv) If, in the course of the audit process, a dispute arises over the documentation sought or other requirements of the candidate agreement, the candidate may seek review by the Commission of the issues raised. To seek review, the candidate shall submit a written statement, within 10 calendar days after the disputed Commission staff request is made, describing the dispute and indicating the candidate's proposed alternative(s).

(v) If the candidate or his or her authorized committee fails to produce particular records, materials, evidence or other information requested by the Commission, the Commission may issue an order pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 30107(a)(1) or a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 30107(a)(3). The procedures set forth in 11 CFR 111.11 through 111.15, as appropriate, shall apply to the production of such records, materials, evidence or other information as specified in the order, subpoena or subpoena duces tecum.

(2) Fieldwork will include the following steps designed to keep the candidate and committee informed as to the progress of the audit and to expedite the process:
