
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9038 - EXAMINATIONS AND AUDITS
##### ยง 9038.1 Audit.
###### Approval and issuance of audit report.

(d)(1) Before voting on whether to issue and approve an audit report, the Commission will consider any written legal and factual materials timely submitted by the candidate or his or her authorized committee in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The Commission-approved audit report may address issues other than those contained in the Preliminary Audit Report. In addition, this report will contain a repayment determination made by the Commission pursuant to 11 CFR 9038.2(c)(1).

(2) The audit report may contain issues that warrant referral to the Office of General Counsel for possible enforcement proceedings under 52 U.S.C. 30109 and 11 CFR part 111.

(3) Addenda to the audit report may be approved and issued by the Commission from time to time as circumstances warrant and as additional information becomes available. Such addenda may be based on follow-up fieldwork conducted under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and/or information ascertained by the Commission in the normal course of carrying out its supervisory responsibilities. The procedures set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) (1) and (2) of this section will be followed in preparing such addenda. The addenda will be placed on the public record as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. Such addenda may also include additional repayment determination(s).
