
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9038 - EXAMINATIONS AND AUDITS
##### ยง 9038.2 Repayments.
###### General.

(a)(1) A candidate who has received payments from the matching payment account shall pay the United States Treasury any amounts which the Commission determines to be repayable under this section. In making repayment determinations under this section, the Commission may utilize information obtained from audits and examinations conducted pursuant to 11 CFR 9038.1 and part 9039 or otherwise obtained by the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under this subchapter.

(2) The Commission will notify the candidate of any repayment determinations made under this section as soon as possible, but not later than 3 years after the close of the matching payment period. The Commission's issuance of the audit report to the candidate under 11 CFR 9038.1(d) will constitute notification for purposes of this section.

(3) Once the candidate receives notice of the Commission's repayment determination under this section, the candidate should give preference to the repayment over all other outstanding obligations of his or her committee, except for any federal taxes owned by the committee.

(4) Repayments may be made only from the following sources: personal funds of the candidate (without regard to the limitations of 11 CFR 9035.2), contributions and federal funds in the committee's account(s), and any additional funds raised subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended.
