
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9038 - EXAMINATIONS AND AUDITS
##### ยง 9038.2 Repayments.
###### Repayment period.

(d)(1) Within 90 calendar days of service of the notice of the Commission's repayment determination(s), the candidate shall repay to the United States Treasury the amounts which the Commission has determined to be repayable. Upon application by the candidate, the Commission may grant an extension of up to 90 calendar days in which to make repayment.

(2) If the candidate requests an administrative review of the Commission's repayment determination(s) under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the time for repayment will be suspended until the Commission has concluded its administrative review of the repayment determination(s). Within 30 calendar days after service of the notice of the Commission's post-administrative review repayment determination(s), the candidate shall repay to the United States Treasury the amounts which the Commission has determined to be repayable. Upon application by the candidate, the Commission may grant an extension of up to 90 calendar days in which to make repayment.

(3) Interest shall be assessed on all repayments made after the initial 90-day repayment period established at paragraph (d)(1) of this section or the 30-day repayment period established at paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The amount of interest due shall be the greater of:

(i) An amount calculated in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1961 (a) and (b); or

(ii) The amount actually earned on the funds set aside under this section.
