
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9039 - REVIEW AND INVESTIGATION AUTHORITY
##### ยง 9039.3 Examination and audits; investigations.
###### General.

(a)(1) The Commission will consider information obtained in its continuing review under 11 CFR 9039.2 in making any certification, determination or finding under this subchapter. If the Commission decides by an affirmative vote of four of its members that additional information must be obtained in connection with any such certification, determination or finding, it will conduct a further inquiry. A decision to conduct an inquiry under this section may be based on information that is obtained under 11 CFR 9039.2, received by the Commission from outside sources, or otherwise ascertained by the Commission in carrying out its supervisory responsibilities under the Presidential Primary Matching Payment Account Act and the Federal Election Campaign Act.

(2) An inquiry conducted under this section may be used to obtain information relevant to candidate eligibility, matchability of contributions and repayments to the United States Treasury. Information obtained during such an inquiry may be used as the basis, or partial basis, for Commission certifications, determinations and findings under 11 CFR parts 9033, 9034, 9036 and 9038. Information thus obtained may also be the basis of, or be considered in connection with, an investigation under 52 U.S.C. 30109 and 11 CFR part 111.

(3) Before conducting an inquiry under this section, the Commission will attempt to obtain relevant information under the continuing review provisions of 11 CFR 9039.2. Matching payments will not be withheld pending the results of an inquiry under this section unless the Commission finds patent irregularities suggesting the possibility of fraud in materials submitted by, or in the activities of, the candidate or his or her authorized committee(s).
