
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter F - Presidential Election Campaign Fund: Presidential Primary Matching Fund
#### PART 9039 - REVIEW AND INVESTIGATION AUTHORITY
##### ยง 9039.3 Examination and audits; investigations.
###### Procedures.

(b)(1) The Commission will notify the candidate of its decision to conduct an inquiry under this section. The notice will summarize the legal and factual basis for the Commission's decision.

(2) The Commission's inquiry may include, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) A field audit of the candidate's books and records;

(ii) Field interviews of agents and representatives of the candidate and his or her authorized committee(s);

(iii) Verification of reported contributions by contacting reported contributors;

(iv) Verification of disbursement information by contacting reported vendors;

(v) Written questions under order;

(vi) Production of documents under subpoena;

(vii) Depositions.

(3) The provisions of 52 U.S.C. 30109 and 11 CFR part 111 will not apply to inquiries conducted under this section except that the provisions of 11 CFR 111.12 through 111.15 shall apply to any orders or subpoenas issued by the Commission.

(4) If, at the close of the inquiry, the Commission determines that no action or no further action is warranted, the Commission shall so notify the candidate. If the inquiry results in an adjustment to the amount of certified matching funds, the procedures set forth at 11 CFR 9036.5 or 9038.1 shall be followed, as appropriate. If the inquiry coincides with an audit undertaken pursuant to 11 CFR 9038.1, the information obtained in the inquiry will be utilized in making the repayment determination. If the inquiry results in an initial or additional repayment determination, the procedures set forth at 11 CFR 9038.2, 9038.4, and 9038.5 shall be followed.
