
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter II - Election Assistance Commission
### PART 9405 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 9405.4 Availability of records.

(a) The FOIA and its provisions apply only to existing Commission records; the FOIA does not require the creation of new records.

(b) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2), the Commission shall make the following materials available for public inspection and copying:

(1) Statements of policy and interpretation that have been adopted by the Commission but have not been published in the;

(2) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;

(3) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, that have been released to any person under this paragraph and that, because of their nature or subject matter, the Commission determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; and

(4) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(c) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3), the Commission shall make available, upon proper request, all non-exempt Commission records, or portions of records, not previously made public under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and (a)(2).

(d) The Commission shall maintain and make available current indexes and supplements providing identifying information regarding any matter issued, adopted, or promulgated after July 4, 1967. These indexes and supplements shall be published and made available on at least a quarterly basis for public distribution unless the Commission determines by Notice in thethat publication would be unnecessary, impracticable, or not feasible due to budgetary considerations. Nevertheless, copies of any index or supplement shall be made available upon request at a cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication.

(e) If documents or files contain both disclosable and non-disclosable information, the non-disclosable information will be deleted and the disclosable information released, unless the disclosable portions cannot be reasonably segregated from the other portions in a manner which will allow meaningful information to be disclosed.

(f) All records created in the process of implementing provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552 will be maintained by the Commission in accordance with the authority granted by the National Archives and Records Service of the General Services Administration.
