
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter II - Election Assistance Commission
### PART 9407 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
#### ยง 9407.4 Notice of meetings.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Commission shall make a public announcement at least seven days prior to a meeting.

(b) The public announcement shall include:

(1) The time and place of the meeting;

(2) The subject matter of the meeting;

(3) Whether the meeting is to be open, closed, or portions of a meeting will be closed;

(4) Whether public participation will be allowed; and

(5) The name and telephone number of the person who will respond to requests for information about the meeting.

(c) The public announcement requirement shall be implemented by:

(1) Publishing the announcement on the Commission's Web site; and

(2) Distributing the announcement to affected government entities and persons and organizations that the Executive Director determines may have an interest in the subject matter of the meeting.

(d) The announcement will be submitted for publication in theimmediately following the public posting and distribution noted in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) A meeting may be held with less than seven days notice if a majority of the Commission determines by recorded vote that the business of the Commission so requires. The Commission shall make a public announcement to this effect at the earliest practicable time. The announcement shall include the information required by paragraph (b) of this section and shall be issued in accordance with those procedures set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section that are practicable given the available period of time.

(f) The subject matter of an announced meeting or the determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting or portions of a meeting to public observation may be changed only if:

(1) A majority of the Commissioners determine by a recorded vote that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible,

(2) The Commission publicly announces the change and the vote of each Commissioner upon such change at the earliest practicable time.

(3) The announcement of the change noted in paragraph (f)(2) of this section is issued in accordance with those procedures set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section that are practicable given the available period of time.

(g) The time or place of an announced meeting may be changed only if a public announcement of the change is made at the earliest practicable time. The announcement shall be issued in accordance with those procedures set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section that are practicable given the available period of time.
