
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter II - Election Assistance Commission
### PART 9410 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 9410.4 Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests.

(a) After being informed by the Commission that a record system contains a record pertaining to him or her, an individual may request that the Commission disclose that record in the manner described in this section. Each request for the disclosure of a record or a copy of a record it shall be made in person or by written correspondence to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, 1335 East-West Highway, Suite 4300, Silver Spring, MD 20910 and to the person identified in the notice describing the systems of records. Requests can also be made by specifically authorized agents or by parents or guardians of individuals.

(b) Each individual requesting the disclosure of a record or copy of a record shall furnish the following information with his or her request:

(1) The name of the record system containing the record;

(2) Proof as described in paragraph (c) of this section that he or she is the individual to whom the requested record relates; and

(3) Any other information required by the notice describing the record system.

(c) Proof of identity as required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be provided as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. Requests made by an agent, parent, or guardian shall be in accordance with the procedures described in ยง 9410.9.

(1) Requests made in writing shall include a statement affirming the individual's identity, signed by the individual and either notarized or witnessed by two persons (including witnesses' addresses). If the individual appears before a notary, he or she shall submit adequate proof of identification in the form of a driver's license, birth certificate, passport, or other identification acceptable to the notary. If the statement is witnessed, it shall include a sentence above the witnesses' signatures that they personally know the individual or that the individual has submitted proof of his or her identification to their satisfaction. In cases involving records of extreme sensitivity, the Commission may determine that the identification is not adequate and may request the individual to submit additional proof of identification.

(2) If the request is made in person, the requester shall submit proof of identification similar to that described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, acceptable to the Commission.
