
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### PART 1 - PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 1.14 Specific exemptions.

(a) No individual, under the provisions of these regulations, shall be entitled to access to materials compiled in its systems of records identified as FEC audits and investigations (FEC 2) or FEC compliance actions (FEC 3). These exempted systems relate to the Commission's power to exercise exclusive civil jurisdiction over the enforcement of the Act under 52 U.S.C. 30107(a)(6) and (e); and to defend itself in actions filed against it under 52 U.S.C. 30107(a)(6). Further the Commission has a duty to investigate violations of the Act under 52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(2); to conduct audits and investigations pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 30111(b), 26 U.S.C. 9007 and 9038; and to refer apparent violations of the Act to the Attorney General or other law enforcement authorities under 52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(5) and 30107(a)(9). Information contained in FEC systems 2 and 3 contain the working papers of the Commission staff and form the basis for either civil and/or criminal proceedings pursuant to the exercise of the powers and duties of the Commission. These materials must be protected until such time as they are subject to public access under the provision of 52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(4)(B) or 5 U.S.C. 552, or other relevant statutes.

(b)(1) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), records contained in FEC 12, Office of Inspector General Investigative Files, are exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, except subsections (b), (c) (1) and (2), (e)(4) (A) through (F), (e) (6), (7), (9), (10), and (11) and (f) , and the corresponding provisions of 11 CFR part 1, to the extent this system of records relates in any way to the enforcement of criminal laws.

(2) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), FEC 12, Office of Inspector General Investigative Files, is exempt from 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f), and the corresponding provisions of 11 CFR part 1, to the extent the system of records consists of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, except for material that falls within the exemption included in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to the extent that application of the subsection would deny any individual any right, privilege or benefit to which he or she would otherwise be entitled to receive.
