
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 100 - SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS (52 U.S.C. 30101)
##### Subpart A - General Definitions
###### ยง 100.24 Federal election activity (52 U.S.C. 30101(20)).
####### Federal election activity

(b) As used in part 300 of this chapter,means any of the activities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.

(1) Voter registration activity during the period that begins on the date that is 120 calendar days before the date that a regularly scheduled Federal election is held and ends on the date of the election. For purposes of voter registration activity, the term "election" does not include any special election.

(2) The following activities conducted in connection with an election in which one or more candidates for Federal office appears on the ballot (regardless of whether one or more candidates for State or local office also appears on the ballot):

(i) Voter identification.

(ii) Generic campaign activity, as defined in 11 CFR 100.25.

(iii) Get-out-the-vote activity.

(3) A public communication that refers to a clearly identified candidate for Federal office, regardless of whether a candidate for State or local election is also mentioned or identified, and that promotes or supports, or attacks or opposes any candidate for Federal office. This paragraph applies whether or not the communication expressly advocates a vote for or against a Federal candidate.

(4) Services provided during any month by an employee of a State, district, or local committee of a political party who spends more than 25 percent of that individual's compensated time during that month on activities in connection with a Federal election.
