
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 100 - SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS (52 U.S.C. 30101)
##### Subpart A - General Definitions
###### ยง 100.24 Federal election activity (52 U.S.C. 30101(20)).
####### Exceptions. Federal election activity

(c)does not include any amount expended or disbursed by a State, district, or local committee of a political party for any of the following activities:

(1) A public communication that refers solely to one or more clearly identified candidates for State or local office and that does not promote or support, or attack or oppose a clearly identified candidate for Federal office; provided, however, that such a public communication shall be considered a Federal election activity if it constitutes voter registration activity, generic campaign activity, get-out-the-vote activity, or voter identification.

(2) A contribution to a candidate for State or local office, provided the contribution is not designated to pay for voter registration activity, voter identification, generic campaign activity, get-out-the-vote activity, a public communication, or employee services as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(3) The costs of a State, district, or local political convention, meeting or conference.

(4) The costs of grassroots campaign materials, including buttons, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures, posters, and yard signs, that name or depict only candidates for State or local office.

(5) Voter identification activity that is conducted solely in connection with a non-Federal election held on a date on which no Federal election is held, and which is not used in a subsequent election in which a Federal candidate appears on the ballot.

(6) Get-out-the-vote activity that is conducted solely in connection with a non-Federal election held on a date on which no Federal election is held, provided that any communications made as part of such activity refer exclusively to:

(i) Non-Federal candidates participating in the non-Federal election, if the non-Federal candidates are not also Federal candidates;

(ii) Ballot referenda or initiatives scheduled for the date of the non-Federal election; or

(iii) The date, polling hours, and locations of the non-Federal election.
