
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 100 - SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS (52 U.S.C. 30101)
##### Subpart B - Definition of Contribution (52 U.S.C. 30101(8))
###### ยง 100.52 Gift, subscription, loan, advance or deposit of money.
####### loan

(b) For purposes of this section, the termincludes a guarantee, endorsement, and any other form of security.

(1) A loan that exceeds the contribution limitations of 52 U.S.C. 30116 and 11 CFR part 110 shall be unlawful whether or not it is repaid.

(2) A loan is a contribution at the time it is made and is a contribution to the extent that it remains unpaid. The aggregate amount loaned to a candidate or committee by a contributor, when added to other contributions from that individual to that candidate or committee, shall not exceed the contribution limitations set forth at 11 CFR part 110. A loan, to the extent it is repaid, is no longer a contribution.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a loan is a contribution by each endorser or guarantor. Each endorser or guarantor shall be deemed to have contributed that portion of the total amount of the loan for which he or she agreed to be liable in a written agreement. Any reduction in the unpaid balance of the loan shall reduce proportionately the amount endorsed or guaranteed by each endorser or guarantor in such written agreement. In the event that such agreement does not stipulate the portion of the loan for which each endorser or guarantor is liable, the loan shall be considered a loan by each endorser or guarantor in the same proportion to the unpaid balance that each endorser or guarantor bears to the total number of endorsers or guarantors.

(4) A candidate may obtain a loan on which his or her spouse's signature is required when jointly owned assets are used as collateral or security for the loan. The spouse shall not be considered a contributor to the candidate's campaign if the value of the candidate's share of the property used as collateral equals or exceeds the amount of the loan that is used for the candidate's campaign.

(5) If a political committee makes a loan to any person, such loan shall be subject to the limitations of 11 CFR part 110. Repayment of the principal amount of such loan to such political committee shall not be a contribution by the debtor to the lender committee. Such repayment shall be made with funds that are subject to the prohibitions of 11 CFR 110.20 and part 114. The payment of interest to such committee by the debtor shall be a contribution only to the extent that the interest paid exceeds a commercially reasonable rate prevailing at the time the loan is made. All payments of interest shall be made from funds subject to the prohibitions of 11 CFR 110.20 and part 114.
