
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.5 Organizations financing political activity in connection with Federal and non-Federal elections, other than through transfers and joint fundraisers: Accounts and accounting.
###### Organizations that are not political committees under the Act.

(b)(1) Any organization that makes contributions, expenditures, and exempted payments under 11 CFR 100.80, 100.87 and 100.89 and 11 CFR 100.140, 100.147 and 100.149, but that does not qualify as a political committee under 11 CFR 100.5, must keep records of receipts and disbursements and, upon request, must make such records available for examination by the Commission. The organization must demonstrate through a reasonable accounting method that, whenever such an organization makes a contribution or expenditure, or payment, the organization has received sufficient funds subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act to make such contribution, expenditure, or payment.

(2) Any State, district, or local party organization that makes payments for certain Federal election activities under 11 CFR 300.32(b) must either:

(i) Establish one or more Levin accounts pursuant to 11 CFR 300.30(b) into which only funds solicited pursuant to 11 CFR 300.31 may be deposited and from which payments must be made pursuant to 11 CFR 300.32 and 300.33. See 11 CFR 300.30(c)(2)(i); or

(ii) Demonstrate through a reasonable accounting method approved by the Commission (including any method embedded in software provided or approved by the Commission) that whenever such organization makes a payment that organization has received sufficient funds subject to the limitations and prohibitions of the Act or the requirements of 11 CFR 300.31 to make such payment. Such organization shall keep records of amounts received or expended under this paragraph and, upon request, shall make such records available for examination by the Commission. See 11 CFR 300.30(c)(2)(ii).

(3) All such party organizations shall keep records of deposits to and disbursements from such Federal and Levin accounts, and upon request, shall make such records available for examination by the Commission.
