
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.9 Accounting for contributions and expenditures (52 U.S.C. 30102(c)).

The treasurer of a political committee or an agent authorized by the treasurer to receive contributions and make expenditures shall fulfill all recordkeeping duties as set forth at 11 CFR 102.9(a) through (f):

(a) An account shall be kept by any reasonable accounting procedure of all contributions received by or on behalf of the political committee.

(1) For contributions in excess of $50, such account shall include the name and address of the contributor and the date of receipt and amount of such contribution.

(2) For contributions from any person whose contributions aggregate more than $200 during a calendar year, such account shall include the identification of the person, and the date of receipt and amount of such contribution.

(3) For contributions from a political committee, such account shall include the identification of the political committee and the date of receipt and amount of such contribution.

(4) In addition to the account to be kept under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for contributions in excess of $50, the treasurer of a political committee or an agent authorized by the treasurer shall maintain:

(i) A full-size photocopy of each check or written instrument; or

(ii) A digital image of each check or written instrument. The political committee or other person shall provide the computer equipment and software needed to retrieve and read the digital images, if necessary, at no cost to the Commission.

(b)(1) An account shall be kept of all disbursements made by or on behalf of the political committee. Such account shall consist of a record of:

(i) The name and address of every person to whom any disbursement is made;

(ii) The date, amount, and purpose of the disbursement; and

(iii) If the disbursement is made for a candidate, the name and office (including State and congressional district, if any) sought by that candidate.
