
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.9 Accounting for contributions and expenditures (52 U.S.C. 30102(c)).
###### payee

(i)(A) For purposes of 11 CFR 102.9(b)(2),means the person who provides the goods or services to the committee or agent thereof in return for payment, except for an advance of $500 or less for travel and subsistence to an individual who will be the recipient of the goods or services.

(B) For any advance of $500 or less to an individual for travel and subsistence, the expense voucher or other expense account documentation and a cancelled check to the recipient of the advance shall be obtained and kept.

(ii) For any credit card transaction, documentation shall include a monthly billing statement or customer receipt for each transaction and the cancelled check used to pay the credit card account.

(iii) For purposes of 11 CFR 102.9(b)(2), a carbon copy of a share draft or check drawn on a credit union account may be used as a duplicate record of such draft or check provided that the monthly account statement showing that the share draft or check was paid by the credit union is also retained.

(c) The treasurer shall preserve all records and accounts required to be kept under 11 CFR 102.9 for 3 years after the report to which such records and accounts relate is filed.

(d) In performing recordkeeping duties, the treasurer or his or her authorized agent shall use his or her best efforts to obtain, maintain and submit the required information and shall keep a complete record of such efforts. If there is a showing that best efforts have been made, any records of a committee shall be deemed to be in compliance with this Act. With regard to the requirements of 11 CFR 102.9(b)(2) concerning receipts, invoices and cancelled checks, the treasurer will not be deemed to have exercised best efforts to obtain, maintain and submit the records unless he or she has made at least one written effort per transaction to obtain a duplicate copy of the invoice, receipt, or cancelled check.

(e)(1) If the candidate, or his or her authorized committee(s), receives contributions that are designated for use in connection with the general election pursuant to 11 CFR 110.1(b) prior to the date of the primary election, such candidate or such committee(s) shall use an acceptable accounting method to distinguish between contributions received for the primary election and contributions received for the general election. Acceptable accounting methods include, but are not limited to:

(i) The designation of separate accounts for each election, caucus or convention; or

(ii) The establishment of separate books and records for each election.

(2) Regardless of the method used under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, an authorized committee's records must demonstrate that, prior to the primary election, recorded cash on hand was at all times equal to or in excess of the sum of general election contributions received less the sum of general election disbursements made.

(3) If a candidate is not a candidate in the general election, any contributions made for the general election shall be refunded to the contributors, redesignated in accordance with 11 CFR 110.1(b)(5) or 110.2(b)(5), or reattributed in accordance with 11 CFR 110.1(k)(3), as appropriate.

(f) The treasurer shall maintain the documentation required by 11 CFR 110.1(l), concerning designations, redesignations, reattributions and the dates of contributions. If the treasurer does not maintain this documentation, 11 CFR 110.1(l)(5) shall apply.
