
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.14 Names of political committees (52 U.S.C. 30102(e)(4) and (5)).
###### delegate(s)

(b)(1) A delegate committee, as defined at 11 CFR 100.5(e)(5), shall include the wordin its name and may also include in its name the name of the presidential candidate which the delegate committee supports.

(2) A political committee established solely to draft an individual or to encourage him or her to become a candidate may include the name of such individual in the name of the committee provided the committee's name clearly indicates that it is a draft committee.

(3) An unauthorized political committee may include the name of a candidate in the title of a special project name or other communication if the title clearly and unambiguously shows opposition to the named candidate.

(c) The name of a separate segregated fund established pursuant to 11 CFR 102.1(c) shall include the full name of its connected organization. Such fund may also use a clearly recognized abbreviation or acronym by which the connected organization is commonly known. Both the full name and such abbreviation or acronym shall be included on the fund's Statement of Organization, on all reports filed by the fund, and in all notices required by 11 CFR 109.11 and 110.11. The fund may make contributions using its acronym or abbreviated name. A fund established by a corporation which has a number of subsidiaries need not include the name of each subsidiary in its name. Similarly, a separate segregated fund established by a subsidiary need not include in its name the name of its parent or another subsidiary of its parent.
