
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.17 Joint fundraising by committees other than separate segregated funds.
###### Separate depository account.

(3)(i) The participants or the fundraising representative shall establish a separate depository account to be used solely for the receipt and disbursement of the joint fundraising proceeds. All contributions deposited into the separate depository account must be permissible under the Act. Each political committee shall amend its Statement of Organization to reflect the account as an additional depository. If one or more participants can lawfully accept contributions that are prohibited under the Act, the participants may either establish a second depository account for contributions received from prohibited sources or they may forward such contributions directly to the nonfederal participants.

(ii) The fundraising representative shall deposit all joint fundraising proceeds in the separate depository account within ten days of receipt as required by 11 CFR 103.3. The fundraising representative may delay distribution of the fundraising proceeds to the participants until all contributions are received and all expenses are paid.

(iii) For contribution reporting and limitation purposes, the date of receipt of a contribution by a participating political committee is the date that the contribution is received by the fundraising representative. The fundraising representative shall report contributions in the reporting period in which they are received. Participating political committees shall report joint fundraising proceeds in accordance with 11 CFR 102.17(c)(8) when such funds are received from the fundraising representative.
