
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.17 Joint fundraising by committees other than separate segregated funds.
###### Allocation of gross proceeds.

(6)(i) The fundraising representative shall allocate proceeds according to the formula stated in the fundraising agreement. If distribution according to the allocation formula extinguishes the debts of one or more participants and results in a surplus for those participants or if distribution under the formula results in a violation of the contribution limits of 11 CFR 110.1(a), the fundraising representative may reallocate the excess funds. Reallocation shall be based upon the remaining participants' proportionate shares under the allocation formula. If reallocation results in a violation of a contributor's limit under 11 CFR 110.1, the fundraising representative shall return to the contributor the amount of the contribution that exceeds the limit.

(ii) Designated contributions which exceed the contributor's limit to the designated participant under 11 CFR part 110 may not be reallocated by the fundraising representative absent the prior written permission of the contributor.

(iii) If any participants can lawfully accept contributions from sources prohibited under the Act, any such contributions that are received are not required to be distributed according to the allocation formula.
