
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 102 - REGISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, AND RECORDKEEPING BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES (52 U.S.C. 30103)
##### ยง 102.17 Joint fundraising by committees other than separate segregated funds.
###### Allocation of expenses and distribution of net proceeds.

(7)(i) If participating committees are not affiliated as defined in 11 CFR 110.3 prior to the joint fundraising activity and are not committees of the same political party;

(A) After gross contributions are allocated among the participants under 11 CFR 102.17(c)(6), the fundraising representative shall calculate each participant's share of expenses based on the percentage of the total receipts each participant had been allocated. If contributions from sources prohibited under the Act have been received and distributed under 11 CFR 102.17(c)(6)(iii), those contributions need not be included in the total receipts for the purpose of allocating expenses under this section. To calculate each participant's net proceeds, the fundraising representative shall subtract the participant's share of expenses from the amount that participant has been allocated from gross proceeds.

(B) A participant may only pay expenses on behalf of another participant subject to the contribution limits of 11 CFR part 110.

(C) The expenses from a series of fundraising events or activities shall be allocated among the participants on a per-event basis regardless of whether the participants change or remain the same throughout the series.

(ii) If participating committees are affiliated as defined in 11 CFR 110.3 prior to the joint fundraising activity or if participants are party committees of the same political party, expenses need not be allocated among those participants. Payment of such expenses by an unregistered committee or organization on behalf of an affiliated political committee may cause the unregistered organization to become a political committee.

(iii) Payment of expenses may be made from gross proceeds by the fundraising representative.
