
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 104 - REPORTS BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES AND OTHER PERSONS (52 U.S.C. 30104)
##### ยง 104.3 Contents of reports (52 U.S.C. 30104(b), 30114).
###### Unitemized contributions from individual persons other than political committees.

(3) If a committee uses pseudonyms it shall subtract the total dollar amount of the fictitious contributions from the total amount listed as a memo entry on line 11(a) of the Detailed Summary page,Thus, the committee will, for this purpose only, be overstating the amount of itemized contributions received and understating the amount of unitemized contributions received.

(4) No authorized committee of a candidate shall attribute more than $1,000 in contributions to the same pseudonym for each election and no other political committee shall attribute more than $5,000 in contributions to the same pseudonym in any calendar year.

(5) A committee using pseudonyms shall send a list of such pseudonyms under separate cover directly to the Reports Analysis Division, Federal Election Commission, at the street address identified in the definition of "Commission" in ยง 1.2 of this chapter, on or before the date on which any report containing such pseudonyms is filed with the Commission. The Commission shall maintain the list, but shall exclude it from the public record. A committee shall not send any list of pseudonyms to any Secretary of State or equivalent state officer.

(6) A political committee shall not use pseudonyms for the purpose of circumventing the reporting requirements or the limitations and prohibitions of the Act.
