
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 104 - REPORTS BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES AND OTHER PERSONS (52 U.S.C. 30104)
##### ยง 104.5 Filing dates (52 U.S.C. 30104(a)(2)).
###### Election year reports.

(1)(i) If on January 1 of the election year, the committee has received or anticipates receiving contributions aggregating $100,000 or more, or has made or anticipates making expenditures aggregating $100,000 or more, it shall file monthly reports.

(A) Each report shall be filed no later than the 20th day after the last day of each month.

(B) The report shall be complete as of the last day of each month.

(C) In lieu of the monthly reports due in November and December, a pre-election report shall be filed as prescribed at paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a post-general election report shall be filed as prescribed at paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, and a year-end report shall be filed no later than January 31 of the following calendar year.

(ii) If on January 1 of the election year, the committee does not anticipate receiving and has not received contributions aggregating $100,000 and does not anticipate making and has not made expenditures aggregating $100,000, the committee shall file a preelection report or reports, a post general election report, and quarterly reports, as prescribed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(iii) If during the election year, a committee filing under 11 CFR 104.5(b)(1)(ii) receives contributions aggregating $100,000 or makes expenditures aggregating $100,000, the treasurer shall begin filing monthly reports at the next reporting period.
