
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 104 - REPORTS BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES AND OTHER PERSONS (52 U.S.C. 30104)
##### ยง 104.16 Audits (52 U.S.C. 30111(b)).

(a) The Commission may conduct audits of any political committee required to register under 11 CFR part 102 and to report under 11 CFR part 104. Prior to conducting any such audit or investigation, the Commission shall conduct an internal review of reports filed by selected committees to determine whether reports filed by a particular committee meet thresholds established by the Commission for substantial compliance with the Act. Such thresholds may vary according to the type of political committee being reviewed.

(b) The Commission may, upon affirmative vote of four members, conduct an audit and field investigation of any committee which meets the thresholds established pursuant to 11 CFR 104.16(a). All such audits and investigations shall commence within 30 days of such vote except that any audit or investigation of an authorized committee of a candidate shall be commenced within 6 months of the election for which such committee was authorized.

(c) The Commission may, upon affirmative vote of four members, conduct an audit and field investigation of any committee pursuant to 11 CFR 111.10.

(d) All audits and field investigations concerning the verification for and the receipt and use of payments under chapters 95 and 96 of title 26 shall be given priority over any audit or investigation of committees not receiving such payments.
