
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 104 - REPORTS BY POLITICAL COMMITTEES AND OTHER PERSONS (52 U.S.C. 30104)
##### ยง 104.17 Reporting of allocable expenses by party committees.
###### Expenses allocated among candidates.

(a)A national party committee making an expenditure on behalf of more than one clearly identified candidate for Federal office must report the allocation between or among the named candidates. A national party committee making expenditures and disbursements on behalf of one or more clearly identified Federal candidates and on behalf of one or more clearly identified non-Federal candidates must report the allocation among all named candidates. These payments shall be allocated among candidates pursuant to 11 CFR part 106, but only Federal funds may be used for such payments. A State, district, or local party committee making expenditures and disbursements for Federal election activity as defined at 11 CFR 100.24 on behalf of one or more clearly identified Federal and one or more clearly identified non-Federal candidates must make the payments from its Federal account and must report the allocation among all named candidates. A State, district, or local party committee making expenditures and disbursements on behalf of one or more clearly identified Federal and one or more clearly identified non-Federal candidates where the activity is not a Federal election activity may allocate the payments between its Federal and non-Federal account and must report the allocation among all named candidates. For allocated expenditures, the committee must report the amount of each in-kind contribution, independent expenditure, or coordinated expenditure attributed to each candidate. If a payment also includes amounts attributable to one or more non-Federal candidates, and is made by a State, district, or local party committee with separate Federal and non-Federal accounts, and is not for a Federal election activity, then the payment shall be made according to the procedures set forth in 11 CFR 106.7(f), but shall be reported pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, as follows:
