
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 106 - ALLOCATIONS OF CANDIDATE AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 106.1 Allocation of expenses between candidates.
###### General rule.

(a)(1) Expenditures, including in-kind contributions, independent expenditures, and coordinated expenditures made on behalf of more than one clearly identified Federal candidate shall be attributed to each such candidate according to the benefit reasonably expected to be derived. For example, in the case of a publication or broadcast communication, the attribution shall be determined by the proportion of space or time devoted to each candidate as compared to the total space or time devoted to all candidates. In the case of a fundraising program or event where funds are collected by one committee for more than one clearly identified candidate, the attribution shall be determined by the proportion of funds received by each candidate as compared to the total receipts by all candidates. In the case of a phone bank, the attribution shall be determined by the number of questions or statements devoted to each candidate as compared to the total number of questions or statements devoted to all candidates. These methods shall also be used to allocate payments involving both expenditures on behalf of one or more clearly identified Federal candidates and disbursements on behalf of one or more clearly identified non-Federal candidates.

(2) An expenditure made on behalf of more than one clearly identified Federal candidate shall be reported pursuant to 11 CFR 104.10(a) or 104.17(a), as appropriate. A payment that also includes amounts attributable to one or more non-Federal candidates, and that is made by a political committee with separate Federal and non-Federal accounts, shall be made according to the procedures set forth in 11 CFR 106.6(e) or 106.7(f), but shall be reported pursuant to 11 CFR 104.10(a) or 104.17(a). If a State, district, or local party committee's payment on behalf of both a Federal candidate and a non-Federal candidate is for a Federal election activity, only Federal funds may be used for the entire payment. For Federal election activities, the provisions of 11 CFR 300.33 and 104.17(a) will apply to payments attributable to candidates.

(b) An authorized expenditure made by a candidate or political committee on behalf of another candidate shall be reported as a contribution in-kind (transfer) to the candidate on whose behalf the expenditure was made, except that expenditures made by party committees pursuant to ยง 109.32 or 109.33 need only be reported as an expenditure.
