
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 106 - ALLOCATIONS OF CANDIDATE AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 106.3 Allocation of expenses between campaign and non-campaign related travel.

(a) This section applies to allocation for expenses between campaign and non-campaign related travel with respect to campaigns of candidates for Federal office, other than Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates who receive federal funds pursuant to 11 CFR part 9005 or 9036. (See 11 CFR 9004.7 and 9034.7) All expenditures for campaign-related travel paid for by a candidate from a campaign account or by his or her authorized committees or by any other political committee shall be reported.

(b)(1) Travel expenses paid for by a candidate from personal funds, or from a source other than a political committee, shall constitute reportable expenditures if the travel is campaign-related.

(2) Where a candidate's trip involves both campaign-related and non-campaign-related stops, the expenditures allocable for campaign purposes are reportable, and are calculated on the actual cost-per-mile of the means of transportation actually used, starting at the point of origin of the trip, via every campaign-related stop and ending at the point of origin.

(3) Where a candidate conducts any campaign-related activity in a stop, the stop is a campaign-related stop and travel expenditures made are reportable. Campaign-related activity shall not include any incidental contacts.

(c)(1) Where an individual, other than a candidate, conducts campaign-related activities on a trip, the portion of the trip attributed to each candidate shall be allocated on a reasonable basis.

(2) Travel expenses of a candidate's spouse and family are reportable as expenditures only if the spouse or family members conduct campaign-related activities.

(d) Costs incurred by a candidate for the United States Senate or House of Representatives for travel between Washington, DC, and the State or district in which he or she is a candidate need not be reported herein unless the costs are paid by a candidate's authorized committee(s), or by any other political committee(s).

(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the reportable expenditure for a candidate who uses government accommodations for travel that is campaign-related is the rate for comparable accommodations. The reportable expenditure for a candidate who uses a government conveyance for travel that is campaign-related is the applicable rate for a comparable commercial conveyance set forth in 11 CFR 100.93(e). In the case of a candidate authorized by law or required by national security to be accompanied by staff and equipment, the allocable expenditures are the costs of facilities sufficient to accommodate the party, less authorized or required personnel and equipment. If such a trip includes both campaign and noncampaign stops, equivalent costs are calculated in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
