
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 106 - ALLOCATIONS OF CANDIDATE AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 106.5 Allocation of expenses between federal and non-federal activities by national party committees.
###### Senate and House campaign committees of a national party; method and minimum Federal percentage for allocating administrative expenses and costs of generic voter drives,Method for allocating administrative expenses and costs of generic voter drives.

(c)-(1)Subject to the minimum percentage set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, each Senate or House campaign committee of a national party shall allocate its administrative expenses and costs of generic voter drives, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, according to the funds expended method, described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) as follows:

(i) Under this method, expenses shall be allocated based on the ratio of Federal expenditures to total Federal and non-Federal disbursements made by the committee during the two-year Federal election cycle. This ratio shall be estimated and reported at the beginning of each Federal election cycle, based upon the committee's Federal and non-Federal disbursements in a prior comparable Federal election cycle or upon the committee's reasonable prediction of its disbursements for the coming two years. In calculating its Federal expenditures, the committee shall include only amounts contributed to or otherwise spent on behalf of specific federal candidates. Calculation of total Federal and non-Federal disbursements shall also be limited to disbursements for specific candidates, and shall not include overhead or other generic costs.

(ii) On each of its periodic reports, the committee shall adjust its allocation ratio to reconcile it with the ratio of actual Federal and non-Federal disbursements made, to date. If the non-Federal account has paid more than its allocable share, the committee shall transfer funds from its Federal to its non-Federal account, as necessary, to reflect the adjusted allocation ratio. The committee shall make note of any such adjustments and transfers on its periodic reports, submitted pursuant to 11 CFR 104.5.
