
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 106 - ALLOCATIONS OF CANDIDATE AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 106.7 Allocation of expenses between Federal and non-Federal accounts by party committees, other than for Federal election activities.

(a) National party committees are prohibited from raising or spending non-Federal funds. Therefore, these committees shall not allocate expenditures and disbursements between Federal and non-Federal accounts. All disbursements by a national party committee must be made from a Federal account.

(b) State, district, and local party committees that make expenditures and disbursements in connection with both Federal and non-Federal elections for activities that are not Federal election activities pursuant to 11 CFR 100.24 may use only funds subject to the prohibitions and limitations of the Act, or they may allocate such expenditures and disbursements between their Federal and their non-Federal accounts. State, district, and local party committees that are political committees that have established separate Federal and non-Federal accounts under 11 CFR 102.5(a)(1)(i) shall allocate expenses between those accounts according to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Party organizations that are not political committees but have established separate Federal and non-Federal accounts, or that make Federal and non-Federal disbursements from a single account, shall also allocate their Federal and non-Federal expenses according to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. In lieu of establishing separate accounts, party organizations that are not political committees may choose to use a reasonable accounting method approved by the Commission (including any method embedded in software provided or approved by the Commission) pursuant to 11 CFR 102.5 and 300.30.
