
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 106 - ALLOCATIONS OF CANDIDATE AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 106.7 Allocation of expenses between Federal and non-Federal accounts by party committees, other than for Federal election activities.
###### Fundraising for Federal and non-Federal accounts.

(4)If Federal and non-Federal funds are collected by a State, district, or local party committee through a joint fundraising activity, that committee must allocate its direct fundraising costs using the funds received method and according to the following procedures:

(i) The committee must allocate its fundraising costs based on the ratio of funds received into its Federal account to its total receipts from each fundraising program or event. This ratio shall be estimated prior to each such program or event based upon the committee's reasonable prediction of its Federal and non-Federal revenue from that program or event, and must be noted in the committee's report for the period in which the first disbursement for such program or event occurred, submitted pursuant to 11 CFR 104.5. Any disbursements for fundraising costs made prior to the actual program or event must be allocated according to this estimated ratio.

(ii) No later than the date 60 days after each fundraising program or event from which both Federal and non-Federal funds are collected, the committee shall adjust the allocation ratio for that program or event to reflect the actual ratio of funds received. If the non-Federal account has paid more than its allocable share, the committee shall transfer funds from its Federal to its non-Federal account, as necessary, to reflect the adjusted allocation ratio. If the Federal account has paid more than its allocable share, the committee shall make any transfers of funds from its non-Federal to its Federal account to reflect the adjusted allocation ratio within the 60-day time period established by this paragraph. The committee shall make note of any such adjustments and transfers in its report for any period in which a transfer was made, and shall also report the date of the fundraising program or event that serves as the basis for the transfer. In the case of a telemarketing or direct mail campaign, the date for purposes of this paragraph is the last day of the telemarketing campaign, or the day on which the final direct mail solicitations are mailed.
