
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 109 - COORDINATED AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES (52 U.S.C. 30101(17), 30116(a) AND (d), AND PUB. L. 107-155 SEC. 214(C))
##### Subpart C - Coordination
###### ยง 109.21 What is a "coordinated communication"?
####### References to both political parties and clearly identified Federal candidates.

(iv)The public communication refers to a political party and a clearly identified Federal candidate, and is publicly distributed or otherwise publicly disseminated in a jurisdiction in which one or more candidates of that political party will appear on the ballot.

(A) When the public communication is coordinated with a candidate and it is publicly distributed or otherwise publicly disseminated in that candidate's jurisdiction, the time period in paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section that would apply to a communication containing a reference to that candidate applies;

(B) When the public communication is coordinated with a political party committee and it is publicly distributed or otherwise publicly disseminated in the clearly identified candidate's jurisdiction, the time period in paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section that would apply to a communication containing only a reference to that candidate applies;

(C) When the public communication is coordinated with a political party committee and it is publicly distributed or otherwise publicly disseminated outside the clearly identified candidate's jurisdiction, the time period in paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(B) or (C) of this section that would apply to a communication containing only a reference to a political party applies.

(5) A public communication, as defined in 11 CFR 100.26, that is the functional equivalent of express advocacy. For purposes of this section, a communication is the functional equivalent of express advocacy if it is susceptible of no reasonable interpretation other than as an appeal to vote for or against a clearly identified Federal candidate.
