
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 109 - COORDINATED AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES (52 U.S.C. 30101(17), 30116(a) AND (d), AND PUB. L. 107-155 SEC. 214(C))
##### Subpart D - Special Provisions for Political Party Committees
###### ยง 109.32 What are the coordinated party expenditure limits?
####### Coordinated party expenditures in Presidential elections.

(a)(1) The national committee of a political party may make coordinated party expenditures in connection with the general election campaign of any candidate for President of the United States affiliated with the party.

(2) The coordinated party expenditures shall not exceed an amount equal to two cents multiplied by the voting age population of the United States. See 11 CFR 110.18. This limitation shall be increased in accordance with 11 CFR 110.17.

(3) Any coordinated party expenditure under paragraph (a) of this section shall be in addition to-

(i) Any expenditure by a national committee of a political party serving as the principal campaign committee of a candidate for President of the United States; and

(ii) Any contribution by the national committee to the candidate permissible under 11 CFR 110.1 or 110.2.

(4) Any coordinated party expenditures made by the national committee of a political party pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or made by any other party committee under authority assigned by a national committee of a political party under 11 CFR 109.33, on behalf of that party's Presidential candidate shall not count against the candidate's expenditure limitations under 11 CFR 110.8.
