
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 109 - COORDINATED AND INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES (52 U.S.C. 30101(17), 30116(a) AND (d), AND PUB. L. 107-155 SEC. 214(C))
##### Subpart D - Special Provisions for Political Party Committees
###### ยง 109.32 What are the coordinated party expenditure limits?
####### Coordinated party expenditures in other Federal elections.

(b)(1) The national committee of a political party, and a State committee of a political party, including any subordinate committee of a State committee, may each make coordinated party expenditures in connection with the general election campaign of a candidate for Federal office in that State who is affiliated with the party.

(2) The coordinated party expenditures shall not exceed:

(i) In the case of a candidate for election to the office of Senator, or of Representative from a State which is entitled to only one Representative, the greater of-

(A) Two cents multiplied by the voting age population of the State (see 11 CFR 110.18); or

(B) Twenty thousand dollars.

(ii) In the case of a candidate for election to the office of Representative, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner in any other State, $10,000.

(3) The limitations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be increased in accordance with 11 CFR 110.17.

(4) Any coordinated party expenditure under paragraph (b) of this section shall be in addition to any contribution by a political party committee to the candidate permissible under 11 CFR 110.1 or 110.2.
