
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 110 - CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
##### ยง 110.1 Contributions by persons other than multicandidate political committees (52 U.S.C. 30116(a)(1)).
###### Supporting evidence.

(l)(1) If a political committee receives a contribution designated in writing for a particular election, the treasurer shall retain a copy of the written designation, as required by 11 CFR 110.1(b)(4) or 110.2(b)(4), as appropriate. If the written designation is made on a check or other written instrument, the treasurer shall retain a full-size photocopy of the check or written instrument.

(2) If a political committee receives a written redesignation of a contribution for a different election, the treasurer shall retain the written redesignation provided by the contributor, as required by 11 CFR 110.1(b)(5) or 110.2(b)(5), as appropriate.

(3) If a political committee receives a written reattribution of a contribution to a different contributor, the treasurer shall retain the written reattribution signed by each contributor, as required by 11 CFR 110.1(k).

(4)(i) If a political committee chooses to rely on a postmark as evidence of the date on which a contribution was made, the treasurer shall retain the envelope or a copy of the envelope containing the postmark and other identifying information; and

(ii) If a political committee chooses to rely on the redesignation presumption in 11 CFR 110.1(b)(5)(ii)(B) or (C) or the reattribution presumption in 11 CFR 110.1(k)(3)(ii)(B), the treasurer shall retain a full-size photocopy of the check or written instrument, of any signed writings that accompanied the contribution, and of the notices sent to the contributors as required by 11 CFR 110.1(b)(5)(ii)(B) and (k)(3)(ii)(B).

(5) If a political committee does not retain the written records concerning designation required under 11 CFR 110.1(l)(1), the contribution shall not be considered designated in writing for a particular election, and the provisions of 11 CFR 110.1(b)(2)(ii) or 11 CFR 110.2(b)(2)(ii) shall apply. If a political committee does not retain the written records concerning redesignation or reattribution required under 11 CFR 110.1(l)(2), (3), (4)(ii) or (6), including the contributor notices, the redesignation or reattribution shall not be effective, and the original designation or attribution shall control.

(6) For each written redesignation or written reattribution of a contribution described in paragraph (b)(5) or paragraph (k)(3) of this section, the political committee shall retain documentation demonstrating when the written redesignation or written reattribution was received. Such documentation shall consist of:

(i) A copy of the envelope bearing the postmark and the contributor's name, or return address or other identifying code; or

(ii) A copy of the written redesignation or written reattribution with a date stamp indicating the date of the committee's receipt; or

(iii) A copy of the written redesignation or written reattribution dated by the contributor.
