
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 110 - CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
##### ยง 110.11 Communications; advertising; disclaimers (52 U.S.C. 30120).
###### Specific requirements for internet public communications.,internet public communication

(5)(i) For purposes of this section,means any public communication over the internet that is placed for a fee on another person's website, digital device, application, or advertising platform.

(ii) An internet public communication must include a disclaimer that complies with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section. The disclaimer requirement under this paragraph applies to any person that pays to place an internet public communication, regardless of whether that person originally created, produced, or distributed the communication.

(iii) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section, a disclaimer required by paragraph (a) of this section that appears on an internet public communication must comply with the following:

(A) Except as provided by paragraph (g) of this section, an internet public communication with text or graphic components must include the written disclaimer required by this paragraph, such that the disclaimer can be viewed without taking any action.

(B) The disclaimer must be of sufficient type size to be clearly readable by the recipient of the communication. A disclaimer that appears in letters at least as large as the majority of other text in the communication satisfies this requirement.

(C) The disclaimer must be displayed with a reasonable degree of color contrast between the background and the disclaimer's text. A disclaimer satisfies this requirement if it is displayed in black text on a white background, or if the degree of color contrast is no less than the color contrast between the background and the largest text used in the communication.

(D) If the disclaimer is displayed within a video, the disclaimer must be visible for at least 4 seconds and appear without the recipient of the communication taking any action.

(E) An internet public communication with an audio component but without video, graphic, or text components must include a disclaimer that satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section within the audio component.
