
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 110 - CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
##### ยง 110.14 Contributions to and expenditures by delegates and delegate committees.
###### Use of public political advertising.

(2)A delegate committee may make expenditures to defray costs incurred in the use of broadcasting, newspapers, magazines, billboards, direct mail or similar types of general public communication or political advertising to advocate the selection of one or more delegates and also include information on or reference to a candidate for the office of President or any other public office. If such expenditures are in-kind contributions or independent expenditures under paragraphs (i) or (ii) below, the delegate committee shall allocate the portion of the expenditures relating to the delegate(s) and candidate(s) referred to in the communications between them and report the portion allocable to each.

(i) Such expenditures are in-kind contributions to a Federal candidate if they are coordinated communications under 11 CFR 109.21.

(A) The portion of the expenditure allocable to a Federal candidate is subject to the contribution limitations of 11 CFR 110.1. The delegate committee shall report the portion allocable to the Federal candidate as a contribution in-kind.

(B) The Federal candidate's authorized committee shall report the portion of the expenditure allocable to the candidate as a contribution pursuant to 11 CFR part 104.

(C) The portion of the expenditure allocable to a presidential candidate is chargeable to the presidential candidate's expenditure limitation under 11 CFR 110.8(a).

(ii) Such expenditures are independent expenditures under 11 CFR 100.16 if they are made for a communication expressly advocating the election or defeat of a clearly identified Federal candidate that is not a coordinated communication under 11 CFR 109.21.

(A) Such independent expenditures must be made in accordance with the requirements of 11 CFR part 100.16.

(B) The delegate committee shall report the portion of the expenditure allocable to the Federal candidate as an independent expenditure in accordance with 11 CFR 109.10.
