
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### PART 5 - ACCESS TO PUBLIC DISCLOSURE AND MEDIA RELATIONS DIVISION DOCUMENTS
#### ยง 5.4 Availability of records.

(a) In accordance with 52 U.S.C. 30111(a), the Commission shall make the following material available for public inspection and copying through the Commission's Public Disclosure and Media Relations Division:

(1) Reports of receipts and expenditures, designations of campaign depositories, statements of organization, candidate designations of campaign committees and the indices compiled from the filings therein.

(2) Requests for advisory opinions, written comments submitted in connection therewith, and responses issued by the Commission.

(3) With respect to enforcement matters, any conciliation agreement entered into between the Commission and any respondent.

(4) Opinions of Commissioners rendered in enforcement cases and General Counsel's Reports and non-exempt 52 U.S.C. 30109 investigatory materials shall be placed on the public record of the Agency no later than 30 days from the date on which all respondents are notified that the Commission has voted to close such an enforcement file.

(5) Letter requests for guidance and responses thereto.

(6) The minutes of Commission meetings.

(7) Material routinely prepared for public distribution, e.g. campaign guidelines, FEC Record, press releases, speeches, notices to candidates and committees.

(8) Audit reports (if discussed in open session).

(9) Agendas for Commission meetings.

(b) The provisions of this part apply only to existing records; nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the creation of new records.

(c) In order to ensure the integrity of the Commission records subject to the Act and the maximum availability of such records to the public, nothing herein shall be construed as permitting the physical removal of any Commission records from the public facilities maintained by the Public Disclosure and Media Relations Division other than copies of such records obtained in accordance with the provisions of this part.

(d) Release of records under this section is subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
