
# Title 11 - Federal Elections
## Chapter I - Federal Election Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 112 - ADVISORY OPINIONS (52 U.S.C. 30108)
##### ยง 112.4 Issuance of advisory opinions (52 U.S.C. 30108(a) and (b)).

(a) Within 60 calendar days after receiving an advisory opinion request that qualifies under 11 CFR 112.1, the Commission shall issue to the requesting person a written advisory opinion or shall issue a written response stating that the Commission was unable to approve an advisory opinion by the required affirmative vote of 4 members.

(b) The 60 calendar day period of 11 CFR 112.4(a) is reduced to 20 calendar days for an advisory opinion request qualified under 11 CFR 112.1 provided the request:

(1) Is submitted by any candidate, including any authorized committee of the candidate (or agent of either), within the 60 calendar days preceding the date of any election for Federal office in which the candidate is seeking nomination or election; and

(2) Presents a specific transaction or activity related to the election that may invoke the 20 day period if the connection is explained in the request.

(c) The 60 day and 20 day periods referred to in 11 CFR 112.4 (a) and (b) only apply when the Commission has received a qualified and complete advisory opinion request under 11 CFR 112.1, and when the 60th or 20th day occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the respective period ends at the close of the business day next following the weekend or holiday.

(d) The Commission may issue advisory opinions pertaining only to the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, chapters 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or rules or regulations duly prescribed under those statutes.

(e) Any rule of law which is not stated in the Act or in chapters 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or in a regulation duly prescribed by the Commission, may be initially proposed only as a rule or regulation pursuant to procedures established in 52 U.S.C. 30111(d) or 26 U.S.C. 9009(c) and 9039(c) as applicable.

(f) No opinion of an advisory nature may be issued by the Commission or any of its employees except in accordance with 11 CFR part 112; however, this limitation does not preclude distribution by the Commission of information consistent with the Act and chapters 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.

(g) When issued by the Commission, each advisory opinion or other response under 11 CFR 112.4(a) shall be made public and sent by mail, or personally delivered to the person who requested the opinion.
