
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### § 413.65 Requirements for a determination that a facility or an organization has provider-based status.
####### Scope and definitions.,Scope.

(a)(1)(i) This section applies to all facilities for which provider-based status is sought, including remote locations of hospitals, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and satellite facilities as defined in §§ 412.22(h)(1) and 412.25(e)(1) of this chapter, other than facilities described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The determinations of provider-based status for payment purposes described in this section are not made as to whether the following facilities are provider-based:

(A) Ambulatory surgical centers (ASCs).

(B) Comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facilities (CORFs).

(C) Home health agencies (HHAs).

(D) Skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) (determinations for SNFs are made in accordance with the criteria set forth in § 483.5 of this chapter).

(E) Hospices.

(F) Inpatient rehabilitation units that are excluded from the inpatient PPS for acute hospital services.

(G) Independent diagnostic testing facilities furnishing only services paid under a fee schedule, such as facilities that furnish only screening mammography services (as defined in section 1861(jj) of the Act), facilities that furnish only clinical diagnostic laboratory tests, other than those clinical diagnostic laboratories operating as parts of CAHs on or after October 1, 2010, or facilities that furnish only some combination of these services.

(H) Facilities, other than those operating as parts of CAHs, furnishing only physical, occupational, or speech therapy to ambulatory patients, throughout any period during which the annual financial cap amount on payment for coverage of physical, occupational, or speech therapy, as described in section 1833(g)(2) of the Act, is suspended by legislation.

(I) ESRD facilities (determinations for ESRD facilities are made under § 413.174 of this chapter).

(J) Departments of providers that perform functions necessary for the successful operation of the providers but do not furnish services of a type for which separate payment could be claimed under Medicare or Medicaid (for example, laundry or medical records departments).

(K) Ambulances.

(L) Rural health clinics (RHCs) affiliated with hospitals having 50 or more beds.
