
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### § 413.65 Requirements for a determination that a facility or an organization has provider-based status.
####### Obligations of hospital outpatient departments and hospital-based entities.

(g)To qualify for provider-based status in relation to a hospital, a facility or organization must comply with the following requirements:

(1) The following departments must comply with the antidumping rules of §§ 489.20(l), (m), (q), and (r) and 489.24 of this chapter:

(i) Any facility or organization that is located on the main hospital campus and is treated by Medicare under this section as a department of the hospital; and

(ii) Any facility or organization that is located off the main hospital campus that is treated by Medicare under this section as a department of the hospital and is a dedicated emergency department, as defined in § 489.24(b) of this chapter.

(2) Physician services furnished in hospital outpatient departments or hospital-based entities (other than RHCs) must be billed with the correct site-of-service so that appropriate physician and practitioner payment amounts can be determined under the rules of Part 414 of this chapter.

(3) Hospital outpatient departments must comply with all the terms of the hospital's provider agreement.

(4) Physicians who work in hospital outpatient departments or hospital-based entities are obligated to comply with the non-discrimination provisions in § 489.10(b) of this chapter.

(5) Hospital outpatient departments (other than RHCs) must treat all Medicare patients, for billing purposes, as hospital outpatients. The department must not treat some Medicare patients as hospital outpatients and others as physician office patients.

(6) In the case of a patient admitted to the hospital as an inpatient after receiving treatment in the hospital outpatient department or hospital-based entity, payments for services in the hospital outpatient department or hospital-based entity are subject to the payment window provisions applicable to PPS hospitals and to hospitals and units excluded from PPS set forth at § 412.2(c)(5) of this chapter and at § 413.40(c)(2), respectively.

(7) When a Medicare beneficiary is treated in a hospital outpatient department that is not located on the main provider's campus, the treatment is not required to be provided by the antidumping rules in § 489.24 of this chapter, and the beneficiary will incur a coinsurance liability for an outpatient visit to the hospital as well as for the physician service, the following requirements must be met:

(i) The hospital must provide written notice to the beneficiary, before the delivery of services, of-

(A) The amount of the beneficiary's potential financial liability; or

(B) If the exact type and extent of care needed are not known, an explanation that the beneficiary will incur a coinsurance liability to the hospital that he or she would not incur if the facility were not provider-based, an estimate based on typical or average charges for visits to the facility, and a statement that the patient's actual liability will depend upon the actual services furnished by the hospital.

(ii) The notice must be one that the beneficiary can read and understand.

(iii) If the beneficiary is unconscious, under great duress, or for any other reason unable to read a written notice and understand and act on his or her own rights, the notice must be provided, before the delivery of services, to the beneficiary's authorized representative.

(iv) In cases where a hospital outpatient department provides examination or treatment that is required to be provided by the antidumping rules of § 489.24 of this chapter, notice, as described in this paragraph (g)(7), must be given as soon as possible after the existence of an emergency has been ruled out or the emergency condition has been stabilized.

(8) Hospital outpatient departments must meet applicable hospital health and safety rules for Medicare-participating hospitals in part 482 of this chapter.
