
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### ยง 413.70 Payment for services of a CAH.
####### Exception for decertified EHR technology.

(iii)Beginning with the fiscal year 2018 payment adjustment year, the Secretary shall exempt a CAH that is not a qualifying CAH from the application of the payment adjustment under paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section if the Secretary determines that compliance with the requirement for being a meaningful EHR user is not possible because the certified EHR technology used by the CAH has been decertified under ONC's Health IT Certification Program. In order to be considered for an exception, a CAH must submit an application, in the manner specified by CMS, demonstrating that the certified EHR technology was decertified during the 12-month period preceding the applicable EHR reporting period for the payment adjustment year, or during the applicable EHR reporting period for the payment adjustment year, and that the CAH made a good faith effort to obtain another certified EHR technology for that EHR reporting period. Applications requesting this exception must be submitted by November 30 after the end of the applicable payment adjustment year, or a later date specified by CMS.

(iv) Exceptions granted under paragraphs (a)(6)(ii) and (iii) of this section are subject to annual renewal, but in no case may a CAH be granted such an exception for more than 5 years.

(7) There is no administrative or judicial review under section s1869 and 1878 of the Actor otherwise of the following:

(i) The methodology and standards for determining the amount of payment under paragraph (a)(5) of this section, including the calculation of reasonable costs under ยง 495.106(c) of this chapter.

(ii) The methodology and standards for determining the amount of payment adjustments made under paragraph (a)(6).

(iii) The methodology and standards for determining a CAH to be a qualifying CAH under ยง 495.106 of this chapter.

(iv) The methodology and standards for determining if the hardship exemption applies to a CAH under paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section.

(v) The specification of the cost reporting periods, payment years, or fiscal years as applied under this paragraph.
