
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### ยง 413.70 Payment for services of a CAH.
####### Payment for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests included as outpatient CAH services.

(7)(i) Payment for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests is not subject to the Medicare Part B deductible and coinsurance amounts.

(ii) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(7)(iii) through (b)(7)(vi) of this section, payment to a CAH for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests will be made at 101 percent of reasonable costs of the services as determined in accordance paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.

(iii) For services furnished before July 1, 2009, payment to a CAH for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests will be made under paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section only if the individual is an outpatient of the CAH, as defined in ยง 410.2 of this chapter, and is physically present in the CAH at the time the specimen is collected.

(iv) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(7)(iii) and (b)(7)(v) of this section, payment to a CAH for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests will be made under paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section only if the individual is an outpatient of the CAH, as defined in ยง 410.2 of this chapter, without regard to whether the individual is physically present in the CAH at the time the specimen is collected and at least one of the following conditions is met:

(A) The individual is receiving outpatient services in the CAH on the same day the specimen is collected; or

(B) The specimen is collected by an employee of the CAH.

(v) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of this section, payment for outpatient clinical diagnostic laboratory tests will not be made under paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section if the billing rules under ยง 411.15(p) of this chapter apply.

(vi) Payment for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests for which payment may not be made under paragraph (b)(7)(iii) or paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of this section will be made in accordance with the provisions of sections 1833(a)(1)(D) and 1833(a)(2)(D) of the Act.
