
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.75 Direct GME payments: General requirements.
####### Rural track Medicare GME affiliation agreement

means a written, signed, and dated agreement by responsible representatives of each respective hospital in a rural track Medicare GME affiliated group, as defined in this paragraph (b), that specifies all of the following:

(i) A statement attesting that each participating hospital's FTE counts and rural track FTE limitations in the agreement do not reflect FTE residents nor FTE caps associated with programs other than the rural track program.

(ii) The term of the rural track Medicare GME affiliation agreement (which, at a minimum is 1 year), beginning on July 1 of a year.

(iii) Each participating hospital's direct and indirect GME rural track FTE limitations in effect prior to the rural track Medicare GME affiliation.

(iv) The total adjustment to each hospital's rural track FTE limitations in each year that the rural track Medicare GME affiliation agreement is in effect, for both direct GME and indirect medical education (IME), that reflects a positive adjustment to one hospital's direct and indirect rural track FTE limitations that is offset by a negative adjustment to the other hospital's (or hospitals') direct and indirect rural track FTE limitations of at least the same amount.

(v) The adjustment to each participating hospital's FTE counts resulting from the FTE resident's (or residents') participation in a shared rotational arrangement at each hospital participating in the rural track Medicare GME affiliated group for each year the Medicare GME affiliation agreement is in effect. This adjustment to each participating hospital's FTE count is also reflected in the total adjustment to each hospital's rural track FTE limitations (in accordance with paragraph (iii) of this definition).

(vi) The names of the participating hospitals and their Medicare provider numbers.
