
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.75 Direct GME payments: General requirements.
####### Documentation requirements.

(d)To include a resident in the FTE count for a particular cost reporting period, the hospital must furnish the following information. The information must be certified by an official of the hospital and, if different, an official responsible for administering the residency program.

(1) The name and social security number of the resident.

(2) The type of residency program in which the individual participates and the number of years the resident has completed in all types of residency programs.

(3) The dates the resident is assigned to the hospital and any hospital-based providers.

(4) The dates the resident is assigned to other hospitals, or other freestanding providers, and any nonprovider setting during the cost reporting period, if any.

(5) The name of the medical, osteopathic, dental, or podiatric school from which the resident graduated and the date of graduation.

(6) If the resident is an FMG, documentation concerning whether the resident has satisfied the requirements of this section.

(7) The name of the employer paying the resident's salary.
