
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### § 413.77 Direct GME payments: Determination of per resident amounts.
####### Per resident amount for the base period.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the contractor determines a base-period per resident amount for each hospital as follows:

(i) Determine the allowable GME costs for the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1983 but before October 1, 1984. In determining these costs, GME costs allocated to the nursery cost center, research and other nonreimbursable cost centers, and hospital-based providers that are not participating in Medicare are excluded and GME costs allocated to distinct-part hospital units and hospital-based providers that participate in Medicare are included.

(ii) Divide the costs calculated in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section by the average number of FTE residents working in all areas of the hospital complex (including those areas whose costs were excluded under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section) for its cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1983 but before October 1, 1984.

(2) In determining the base-period per resident amount under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the contractor-

(i) Verifies the hospital's base-period GME costs and the hospital's average number of FTE residents;

(ii) Excludes from the base-period GME costs any nonallowable or misclassified costs, including those previously allowed under § 412.113(b)(3) of this chapter; and

(iii) Upon a hospital's request, includes GME costs that were misclassified as operating costs during the hospital's prospective payment base year and were not allowable under § 412.113(b)(3) of this chapter during the GME base period. These costs may be included only if the hospital requests an adjustment of its prospective payment hospital-specific rate or target amount as described in § 413.82(a) of this chapter.

(3) If the hospital's cost report for its GME base period is no longer subject to reopening under § 405.1885 of this chapter, the contractor may modify the hospital's base-period costs solely for purposes of computing the per resident amount.

(4) If the contractor modifies a hospital's base-period GME costs as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the hospital may request an adjustment of its prospective payment hospital-specific rate or target amount as described in § 413.82(a) of this chapter.

(5) The contractor notifies each hospital that either had direct GME costs or received indirect education payment in its cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1984, and before October 1, 1985, of its base-period average per resident amount. A hospital may appeal this amount within 180 days of the date of that notice.
