
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### § 413.78 Direct GME payments: Determination of the total number of FTE residents.

Subject to the weighting factors in §§ 413.79 and 413.80, and subject to the provisions of § 413.81, the count of FTE residents is determined as follows:

(a) Residents in an approved program working in all areas of the hospital complex may be counted.

(b) (1) No individual resident may be counted as more than one FTE based on the total time spent in training at all sites. A hospital cannot claim the time spent by residents training at another hospital, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section. Except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, if a resident spends time in more than one hospital or in a non-provider setting, the resident counts as partial FTE based on the proportion of time worked at the hospital to the total time worked. A part-time resident counts as a partial FTE based on the proportion of allowable time worked compared to the total time necessary to fill a full-time internship or residency slot.

(2) Effective for a cost reporting period beginning on or after December 27, 2020, a hospital must report FTE residents on its Medicare cost report for a cost reporting period if it does not participate in a Medicare GME affiliation agreement (as defined under § 413.75(b)), and the hospital trains at least 1.0 FTE in an approved program or programs, or, if the hospital trains less than 1.0 FTE residents in an approved program or programs and this training results from the hospital's participation in a Medicare GME affiliation agreement (as defined under § 413.75(b)).

(c) On or after July 1, 1987, and for portions of cost reporting periods occurring before January 1, 1999, the time residents spend in nonprovider settings such as freestanding clinics, nursing homes, and physicians' offices in connection with approved programs is not excluded in determining the number of FTE residents in the calculation of a hospital's resident count if the following conditions are met-

(1) The resident spends his or her time in patient care activities, as defined in § 413.75(b).

(2) There is a written agreement between the hospital and the outside entity that states that the resident's compensation for training time spent outside of the hospital setting is to be paid by the hospital.

(d) For portions of cost reporting periods occurring on or after January 1, 1999, and before October 1, 2004, the time residents spend in nonprovider settings such as freestanding clinics, nursing homes, and physicians' offices in connection with approved programs may be included in determining the number of FTE residents in the calculation of a hospital's resident count if the following conditions are met-

(1) The resident spends his or her time in patient care activities, as defined in § 413.75(b).

(2) The written agreement between the hospital and the nonhospital site must indicate that the hospital will incur the cost of the resident's salary and fringe benefits while the resident is training in the nonhospital site and the hospital is providing reasonable compensation to the nonhospital site for supervisory teaching activities. The agreement must indicate the compensation the hospital is providing to the nonhospital site for supervisory teaching activities.

(3) The hospital must incur all or substantially all of the costs for the training program in the nonhospital setting in accordance with the definition in § 413.75(b).

(4) The hospital is subject to the principles of community support and redistribution of costs as specified in § 413.81.

(e) For portions of cost reporting periods occurring on or after October 1, 2004, and for cost reporting periods beginning before July 1, 2007, the time residents spend in nonprovider settings such as freestanding clinics, nursing homes, and physicians' offices in connection with approved programs may be included in determining the number of FTE residents in the calculation of a hospital's resident count if the following conditions are met:

(1) The resident spends his or her time in patient care activities, as defined in § 413.75(b).

(2) The hospital must incur all or substantially all of the costs of the training program in a nonhospital setting(s) (in accordance with the definition under § 413.75(b)).

(3) The hospital must comply with one of the following:

(i) The hospital must pay all or substantially all of the costs of the training program in a nonhospital setting(s) attributable to training that occurs during a month by the end of the third month following the month in which the training in the nonhospital site occurred.

(ii) There is a written agreement between the hospital and the nonhospital site that states that the hospital will incur the cost of the resident's salary and fringe benefits while the resident is training in the nonhospital site and the hospital is providing reasonable compensation to the nonhospital site for supervisory teaching activities. The agreement must indicate the compensation the hospital is providing to the nonhospital site for supervisory teaching activities.

(iii) If the hospital has in place an emergency Medicare GME affiliation agreement in accordance with § 413.79(f)(6), during the period covered by the emergency Medicare GME affiliation agreement-

(A) The hospital must pay all or substantially all of the costs of the training program in a nonhospital setting(s) attributable to training that occurs during a month by the end of the sixth month following the month in which the training in the nonhospital site occurred. For the costs that would otherwise be required to be paid by the hospital during the period of August 29, 2005 through November 1, 2007, the participating hospital must pay the costs by April 29, 2008; or

(B) There is a written agreement that specifies that the hospital is incurring the cost of the resident's salary and fringe benefits while the resident is training in the nonhospital site and the hospital is providing reasonable compensation to the nonhospital site for supervisory teaching activities. The agreement must indicate the compensation the hospital is providing to the nonhospital site for supervisory teaching activities. The written agreement must be submitted to the contractor by 180 days after the training at the nonhospital site begins. For written agreements that would otherwise be required to be submitted prior to the date the resident(s) begin training at the nonhospital site during the period of August 29, 2005 through November 1, 2007, the written agreement must be submitted to the CMS contractor by April 29, 2008.

(4) The hospital is subject to the principles of community support and redistribution of costs as specified in § 413.81.

(f) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007, and before July 1, 2010, the time residents spend in nonprovider settings such as freestanding clinics, nursing homes, and physicians' offices in connection with approved programs may be included in determining the number of FTE residents in the calculation of a hospital's resident count if the following conditions are met-

(1) The resident spends his or her time in patient care activities as defined at § 413.75(b), except that for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2009, the time spent training in nonpatient care activities, such as didactic conferences and seminars, but excluding research not associated with the treatment or diagnosis of a particular patient, in a nonprovider setting that is primarily engaged in furnishing patient care activities, as defined at § 413.75(b), also may be counted.

(2) The hospital must incur all or substantially all of the costs for the training program in the nonhospital setting(s) (in accordance with the definition under § 413.75(b)).

(3) The hospital must comply with one of the following:

(i) The hospital must pay for all or substantially all of the costs for the training program in a nonhospital setting(s) attributable to training that occurs during a month by the end of the third month following the month in which the training in the nonhospital site occurred.

(ii) There is a written agreement in place between the hospital and the nonhospital site before the training begins that states that the hospital will incur at least 90 percent of the total of the costs of the resident's salary and fringe benefits (and travel and lodging where applicable) while the resident is training in the nonhospital site and the portion of the cost of the teaching physician's salary attributable to nonpatient care direct GME activities. The written agreement must specify the total cost of the training program at the nonhospital site, and the amount the hospital will incur (at least 90 percent of the total), and must indicate the portion of the amount the hospital will incur that reflects residents' salaries and fringe benefits (and travel and lodging where applicable), and the portion of this amount that reflects teaching physician compensation. Hospitals may modify the amounts specified in the written agreement by the end of the academic year (that is, June 30) to reflect that at least 90 percent of the costs of the training program in the nonhospital site has been incurred.

(iii) If the hospital has in place an emergency Medicare GME affiliation agreement in accordance with § 413.79(f)(6), during the period covered by the emergency Medicare GME affiliation agreement-

(A) The hospital must pay all or substantially all of the costs of the training program in a nonhospital setting(s) attributable to training that occurs during a month by the end of the sixth month after the month in which the training in the nonhospital site occurs. For the costs that would otherwise be required to be incurred by the hospital during the period of August 29, 2005 through November 1, 2007, the participating hospital must incur the costs by April 29, 2008; or

(B) There is a written agreement that specifies that the hospital will incur at least 90 percent of the total of the costs of the resident's salary and fringe benefits (and travel and lodging where applicable) while the resident is training in the nonhospital site and the portion of the cost of the teaching physician's salary attributable to nonpatient care direct GME activities. The written agreement must specify the total cost of the training program at the nonhospital site, and the amount the hospital will incur (at least 90 percent of the total), and must indicate the portion of the amount the hospital will incur that reflects residents' salaries and fringe benefits (and travel and lodging where applicable), and the portion of this amount that reflects teaching physician compensation. The written agreement must be submitted to the contractor by 180 days after the training at the nonhospital site begins. Hospitals may modify the amounts specified in the written agreement by the end of the academic year (that is, June 30) to reflect that at least 90 percent of the costs of the training program in the nonhospital site has been incurred. For written agreements that would otherwise be required to be submitted prior to the date the training begins in the nonhospital site during the period of August 29, 2005 through November 1, 2007, the hospital must submit the written agreement to its contractor by April 29, 2008.

(4) The hospital is subject to the principles of community support and redistribution of costs as specified in § 413.81.

(g) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2010, the time residents spend in nonprovider settings such as freestanding clinics, nursing homes, and physicians' offices in connection with approved programs may be included in determining the number of FTE residents in the calculation of a hospital's resident count if the following conditions are met-

(1) The resident spends his or her time-

(i) In patient care activities as defined at § 413.75(b); or

(ii) In nonpatient care activities, such as didactic conferences and seminars, but excluding research not associated with the treatment or diagnosis of a particular patient, in a nonprovider setting that is primarily engaged in furnishing patient care activities, as defined at § 413.75(b).

(2) The hospital or hospitals must incur the costs of the salaries and fringe benefits of the resident during the time the resident spends in the nonprovider setting. If more than one hospital incurs these costs, either directly or through a third party, the hospitals must count a proportional share of the time that residents train at the nonprovider setting(s) as recorded in a written agreement between the hospitals.

(i) Hospitals must have a reasonable basis for establishing that proportion of the cost and the FTE time that each will incur and count.

(ii) If hospitals already arrange payment to the nonprovider site via a written agreement as described in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section, the proportion may be recorded in that agreement.

(iii) If hospitals choose to pay the nonprovider site concurrently as described in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section, the hospitals must record the proportion of cost and FTE time they are incurring and counting in a written agreement between the hospitals.

(3) The hospital or hospitals must comply with one of the following:

(i) The hospital or hospitals must incur the costs of the salaries and fringe benefits of the resident during the time the resident spends in the nonprovider setting by the end of the third month following the month in which the training in the nonprovider site occurred.

(ii) There is a written agreement between the hospital or hospitals and the outside entity that states that the residents' salaries and fringe benefits (including travel and lodging where applicable) during the time the resident spends in the nonprovider setting is to be paid by the hospital(s). Hospitals may modify the amounts specified in the written agreement by the end of the academic year (that is, June 30) to reflect that the costs of the training program in the nonprovider site have been incurred.

(4) The hospital is subject to the principles of community support and redistribution of costs as specified in § 413.81.

(5) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2010, a hospital must maintain and make available records of the FTE count determined for direct GME purposes under this section that its residents spend in nonprovider sites, in order to compare that time to the time spent by its residents in nonprovider sites in the base year of cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2009, and before June 30, 2010. The hospital must supply the CMS contractor with the data for each of its primary care programs on a program-specific basis, and with data for its nonprimary care programs on an overall basis.

(6) The provisions of paragraphs (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2), (g)(3), and (g)(5) of this section shall not be applied in a manner that requires reopening of any settled cost reports as to which there is not a jurisdictionally proper appeal pending as of March 23, 2010, on direct GME or IME payments. Cost reporting periods beginning before July 1, 2010 are not governed by paragraph (g) of this section.

(h) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 1983, the time spent by a resident in an approved medical residency program on vacation, sick leave, or other approved leave that does not prolong the total time the resident is participating in the approved program beyond the normal duration of the program is countable. This provision cannot be applied in a manner that would require the reopening of settled cost reports, except those cost reports on which there is a jurisdictionally proper appeal pending on direct GME or IME payments as of March 23, 2010.

(i) For the time frame that the Public Health Emergency (as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter) associated with COVID-19 was in effect, a sending hospital can include FTE residents training at another hospital in its FTE count if all of the following conditions are met.

(1) The sending hospital sends the resident to the other hospital in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

(2) The time spent by the resident training at the other hospital is in lieu of time that would have been spent in approved training at the sending hospital.

(3) The time that the resident spent training immediately prior to and/or subsequent to the time frame that the Public Health Emergency (as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter) associated with COVID-19 was in effect is included in the FTE count for the sending hospital.
