
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### § 413.79 Direct GME payments: Determination of the weighted number of FTE residents.
####### Medicare GME affiliated group.

(f)A hospital may receive a temporary adjustment to its FTE cap, which is subject to the averaging rules under paragraph (d) of this section, to reflect residents added or subtracted because the hospital is participating in a Medicare GME affiliated group (as defined under § 413.75(b)). Under this provision-

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, each hospital in the Medicare GME affiliated group must submit the Medicare GME affiliation agreement, as defined under § 413.75(b) of this section, to the CMS contractor or MAC servicing the hospital and send a copy to the CMS Central Office no later than July 1 of the residency program year during which the Medicare GME affiliation agreement will be in effect.

(2) Each hospital in the Medicare GME affiliated group must have a shared rotational arrangement, as defined in § 413.75(b), with at least one other hospital within the Medicare GME affiliated group, and all of the hospitals within the Medicare GME affiliated group must be connected by a series of such shared rotational arrangements.

(3) During the shared rotational arrangements under a Medicare GME affiliation agreement, as defined in § 413.75(b), more than one of the hospitals in the Medicare GME affiliated group must count the proportionate amount of the time spent by the resident(s) in its FTE resident counts. No resident may be counted in the aggregate as more than one FTE.

(4) The net effect of the adjustments (positive or negative) on the Medicare GME affiliated hospitals' aggregate FTE cap for each Medicare GME affiliation agreement must not exceed zero.

(5) If the Medicare GME affiliation agreement terminates for any reason, the FTE cap of each hospital in the Medicare GME affiliated group will revert to the individual hospital's pre-affiliation FTE cap that is determined under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.

(6) Effective October 1, 2009, a hospital that is new after July 1 and begins training residents for the first time after the July 1 start date of an academic year may receive a temporary adjustment to its FTE resident cap to reflect its participation in an existing Medicare GME affiliated group by submitting the Medicare GME affiliation agreement, as defined under § 413.75(b), to the CMS contractor or MAC servicing the hospital and sending a copy to the CMS Central Office by the earlier of June 30 of the residency program year during which the Medicare GME affiliation agreement will be in effect or the end of the first cost reporting period during which the hospital begins training residents. The Medicare GME affiliation agreement must specify the effective period for the agreement, which may begin no earlier than the date the affiliation agreement is submitted to CMS. Each of the other hospitals participating in the Medicare GME affiliated group must submit an amended Medicare GME affiliation agreement that reflects the participation of the new hospital to the CMS contractor or MAC servicing the hospital and send a copy to the CMS Central Office no later than June 30 of the residency program year during which the Medicare GME affiliation agreement will be in effect. For purposes of this paragraph, a new hospital is one for which a new Medicare provider agreement takes effect in accordance with § 489.13 of this chapter.
