
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.79 Direct GME payments: Determination of the weighted number of FTE residents.
####### Consideration for members of Medicare GME affiliated groups.

(7)For a hospital that is a member of a Medicare GME affiliated group at any point during any of the hospital's three most recent cost reporting periods ending before March 23, 2010 for which a cost report has been settled or has been submitted to Medicare contractor by March 23, 2010, in determining whether a hospital's otherwise applicable resident FTE resident cap is reduced under paragraph (m) of this section, the Medicare contractor determines a hospital's reference cost reporting period by finding the cost reporting period that results in the smallest difference between the reference resident level and the otherwise applicable resident limit.

(i) If the reference resident level is less than the otherwise applicable resident limit in that reference cost reporting period, the Medicare contractor must then determine if the hospital was a member of a Medicare GME affiliated group as of the July 1 that occurs during that reference cost reporting period.

(ii) If the hospital was a member of a Medicare GME affiliated group as of the July 1 that occurs during that reference cost report, the Medicare contractor does all of the following:

(A) Treat the members of the Medicare GME affiliated group as a group for that reference cost reporting period, for the purpose of determining a reduction to the particular hospital's FTE resident cap.

(B) Determine for each hospital in the Medicare GME affiliated group respectively the FTE resident cap and FTE resident count (IME and direct GME separately).

(C) Add each hospital's FTE resident caps (IME and direct GME separately) to determine the aggregate FTE resident cap.

(D) Add each hospital's FTE resident count (IME and direct GME separately) to determine the aggregate FTE resident count.

(iii) If the aggregate FTE resident count is equal to or exceeds the aggregate FTE resident cap, then the Medicare contractor would make no reduction to the particular hospital's otherwise applicable FTE resident cap under paragraph (m) of this section, and no further steps are necessary for that hospital.

(iv) If the hospitals' aggregate FTE resident count is less than the aggregate FTE resident cap, then the Medicare contractor would determine on a hospital-specific basis whether the particular hospital's FTE resident count is less than its otherwise applicable FTE resident cap (as adjusted by affiliation agreement(s)) in the hospital's reference cost report.

(v) If the hospital's FTE resident count exceeds its otherwise applicable FTE resident cap, the hospital will not have its otherwise applicable FTE resident cap reduced under paragraph (m) of this section.

(vi) If the particular hospital's FTE resident count is less than its otherwise applicable FTE resident cap, the Medicare contractor determines a pro rata cap reduction amount that is equal, in total, to 65 percent of the difference between the aggregate FTE resident cap and the aggregate FTE resident count for the Medicare GME affiliated group.

(A) The pro rata cap reduction to the particular hospital's otherwise applicable FTE resident cap is calculated by dividing the difference between the hospital's otherwise applicable FTE resident cap and the hospital's FTE resident count, by the total amount by which all of the hospitals' individual FTE resident counts are below their affiliated FTE resident caps, multiplying the quotient by the difference between the aggregate FTE resident cap and the aggregate FTE resident counts for the Medicare GME affiliated group, and multiplying that result by 65 percent.

(B) The final reduction takes into account the hospital's FTE resident cap as reduced under the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
