
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### § 413.87 Payments for Medicare + Choice nursing and allied health education programs.
####### Qualifying conditions for payment.

(c)(1) For portions of cost reporting periods occurring on or after January 1, 2000 and before January 1, 2001, a hospital that operates and receives payment for a nursing or allied health education program under § 413.85 may receive an additional payment amount associated with Medicare + Choice utilization. The hospital may receive the additional payment amount, which is calculated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, if both of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section are met.

(i) The hospital must have received Medicare reasonable cost payment for an approved nursing or allied health education program under § 413.85 in its cost reporting period(s) ending in the fiscal year that is 2 years prior to the current calendar year. (For example, if the current year is calendar year 2000, the fiscal year that is 2 years prior to calendar year 2000 is FY 1998.) For a hospital that first establishes a nursing or allied health education program after FY 1998 and receives reasonable cost payment for the program as specified under § 413.85 after FY 1998, the hospital is eligible to receive an additional payment amount in a calendar year that is 2 years after the respective fiscal year so long as the hospital also meets the condition under paragraph (c)(1(ii) of this section.

(ii) The hospital must be receiving reasonable cost payment for an approved nursing or allied health education program under § 413.85 in the current calendar year.

(2) For portions of cost reporting periods occurring on or after January 1, 2001, in addition to meeting the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the hospital must have had a Medicare + Choice utilization greater than zero in its cost reporting period(s) ending in the fiscal year that is 2 years prior to the current calendar year.
