
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.89 Bad debts, charity, and courtesy allowances.
####### Normal accounting treatment: Reduction in revenue.

(c)(1) For cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 2020:

(i) Bad debts, charity, and courtesy allowances represent reductions in revenue. The failure to collect charges for services furnished does not add to the cost of providing the services as these costs have already been incurred in the production of the services.

(ii) Medicare bad debts must not be written off to a contractual allowance account but must be charged to an expense account for uncollectible accounts.

(2) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2020:

(i) Bad debts, also known as "implicit price concessions," charity, and courtesy allowances represent reductions in revenue. The failure to collect charges for services furnished does not add to the cost of providing the services as these costs have already been incurred in the production of the services.

(ii) Medicare bad debts must not be written off to a contractual allowance account but must be recorded as an implicit price concession that results in a reduction in revenue.
