
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.99 Qualified and Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plans.
####### Deferred Compensation for provider-based physicians services in a hospital or SNF.

(2)Costs incurred by a hospital or SNF to fund a Qualified or Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for a provider-based physician must meet the following requirements to be allowable under the program:

(i) The allocation of physician compensation costs required under ยง 415.60 of this chapter does not attribute the provider-based physician's Deferred Compensation entirely to one category of service and his current compensation to another.

(ii) Contributions or payments toward the Qualified or Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan do not include any cost excluded from the definition of physician compensation at ยง 415.60(a) of this chapter.

(iii) The amount of Deferred Compensation does not exceed the amount specified in the agreement required by ยง 415.60(g) of this chapter.

(iv) An arrangement between a physician and a provider of services under which the physician is reimbursed for patient charges, but the provider of services does the billing as a Deferred Compensation agreement, is not allowed.

(v) The costs incurred for physician guaranteed arrangements for hospital emergency room availability services, must meet the following additional requirements:

(A) The terms of both the guarantee arrangements and the Deferred Compensation Plan establish the amounts to be included at the beginning of the hospital's cost reporting period.

(B) The amount of Deferred Compensation is included in the guaranteed amount.

(C) The hospital contributes to the Deferred Compensation Plan from its own funds.

(D) The amount of Deferred Compensation that is allowable is limited to the amount by which the guarantee, including Deferred Compensation, exceeds the total billed by the hospital to all patients for the physician's patient care services.

(E) When the physician's charges to all patients equal or exceed the amount guaranteed by the hospital, the program does not recognize a Deferred Compensation contribution/payment.
