
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.99 Qualified and Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plans.
####### Additional documentation.

(2)The following additional documentation must be made available, upon request by the contractor or CMS, to substantiate the allowability of the payments/contributions by a provider of services to a Qualified or Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan:

(i) The plan document, the trust document and all amendments related to the current cost reporting period.

(ii) If applicable, any Form 5330, Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans, for the cost reporting period.

(iii)(A) Supporting documents for all plan assets and liabilities, such as broker's statements, bank statements, insurance contracts, loan documents, deeds, etc.

(B) Verification of how assets are valued.

(iv)(A) Trustee or administrator reports.

(B) Ledgers.

(C) Journals.

(D) Trustee, administrator, and investment committee minutes.

(E) Certified audit report and other financial reports for the trust.

(F) Any other financial reports, including receipt and disbursement statements, a detailed income statement, and a detailed balance sheet.

(v) For each covered QDBP, documentation of the certified premium information and payments to the PBGC.
