
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.99 Qualified and Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plans.
####### Required documentation.

(1)The provider of services must maintain and make available, upon request by the contractor or CMS, certain specified documentation, to substantiate the allowability of the contributions or payments to its Qualified or Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan(s), or both:

(i) Documentation that demonstrates that the provider of services is in compliance with 26 U.S.C. 409A and 409A(a), and, if applicable, 26 U.S.C. 457.

(ii) Ledger accounts/account statements for each plan participant noting current year deferrals, distributions and loans, including any deferral election forms completed by employees, any change requests, and the approval of such requests.

(iii) Documentation that demonstrates the amount(s) and date(s) of actual contributions or payments made to the Qualified or Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan during the current cost reporting period.

(iv) Schedule SB of Form 5500 (tri-agency form (Department of Labor (DOL), Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and PBGC) that plans file with the DOL's "EFAST" electronic filing system) for a QDBP for the current cost reporting period, or any applicable prior periods.

(v) In the case of a system-wide (multiple employer) plan, the home office shall identify the contributions attributed to each participating provider of services. If the costs included in the cost report for a period differ from the contributions made during the reporting period (that is, as a result of carry forward contributions), the provider of services must also have data available to track and reconcile the difference.
