
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart F - Specific Categories of Costs
###### ยง 413.100 Special treatment of certain accrued costs.
####### Sick pay.

(iii)(A) If sick leave is vested and funded in a deferred compensation plan, liabilities related to the contributions to the fund must be liquidated, generally within 1 year after the end of the cost reporting period in which the liability is incurred. If, within the 1-year time limit, the provider furnishes to the contractor sufficient written justification (based upon documented evidence) for nonpayment of the liability, the contractor may grant an extension for good cause. The extension may not exceed 3 years beyond the end of the cost reporting year in which the liability was incurred. Contributions to the deferred compensation plan must be reduced to reflect estimated forfeitures. Actual forfeitures above or below estimated forfeitures must be used to adjust annual contributions to the fund.

(B) If the sick leave plan grants employees the nonforfeitable right to demand cash payment for unused sick leave at the end of each year, sick pay is includable in allowable costs, without funding, in the cost reporting period in which it is earned.

(C) Sick pay paid on any basis other than that specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) (A) or (B) of this section can be claimed for Medicare payment only on a cash basis for the year in which the benefits are paid.
