
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 11 - CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION AND RESULTS INFORMATION SUBMISSION
##### Subpart D - Additional Submission of Clinical Trial Information
###### ยง 11.64 When must clinical trial information submitted to ClinicalTrials.gov be updated or corrected?
####### 2

() Expanded Access Type, under ยง 11.28(c)(1)(x), must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after a change in the type(s) of expanded access available for an investigational drug product (including a biological product) under section 561 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb).

(F) Overall Recruitment Status must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after any change in overall recruitment status. If, at any time, Overall Recruitment Status is changed to "suspended," "terminated," or "withdrawn," the responsible party must also submit the Why Study Stopped data element.

(G) Individual Site Status must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after a change in status for any individual site.

(H) Human Subjects Protection Review Board Status must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after a change in status.

(I) Primary Completion Date must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after the clinical trial reaches its actual primary completion date. At the time, the date is changed to "actual," and the Enrollment data element specifying the actual number of participants enrolled must be submitted.

(J) Study Completion Date must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after the clinical trial reaches its actual study completion date.

(K) Responsible Party, by Official Title must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after a change in the responsible party or the official title of the responsible party.

(L) Responsible Party Contact Information must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after a change in the responsible party or the contact information for the responsible party.

(M) Device Product Not Approved or Cleared by U.S. FDA must be updated not later than 15 calendar days after a change in approval or clearance status has occurred.

(N) Record Verification Date must be updated any time the responsible party reviews the complete set of submitted clinical trial information for accuracy and not less than every 12 months, even if no other updated information is submitted at that time.

(O) If a protocol is amended in such a manner that changes are communicated to human subjects in the clinical trial, updates to any relevant clinical trial registration information data elements must be submitted not later than 30 calendar days after the protocol amendment is approved by a human subjects protection review board.

(iii) In addition to the update requirements established in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section, clinical trial registration information must be updated at the time that clinical trial results information for that clinical trial is initially submitted.

(A) If the clinical trial was initiated before January 18, 2017, a responsible party must submit updates to the clinical trial registration information described in ยง 11.64(a)(1)(i).

(B) If the clinical trial was initiated on or after January 18, 2017, the responsible party must submit updates to the clinical trial registration information in accordance with ยง 11.64(a)(1)(ii).
