
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 11 - CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION AND RESULTS INFORMATION SUBMISSION
##### Subpart D - Additional Submission of Clinical Trial Information
###### § 11.64 When must clinical trial information submitted to ClinicalTrials.gov be updated or corrected?
####### Clinical trial results information.

(2)The responsible party for an applicable clinical trial, or for another clinical trial for which results information was voluntarily submitted pursuant to § 11.60(b) or (c), where the clinical trial has a Primary Completion Date on or after January 18, 2017, must submit updates in accordance with the following:

(i) In general, changes to required clinical trial results information, other than the protocol and statistical analysis plan specified in § 11.48(a)(5) and certain agreements specified in § 11.48(a)(6)(ii),must be updated not less than once every 12 months.

(ii) For applicable device clinical trials of unapproved or uncleared device products, the responsible party must update the following data elements, as defined in § 11.10(b), in accordance with the following:

(A) Intervention Name(s) must be updated to a non-proprietary name not later than 30 calendar days after a non-proprietary name is established for any intervention included in the Intervention Name(s) data element.

(B) Primary Completion Date must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after the clinical trial reaches its actual primary completion date. At the time the date is changed to "actual," the Enrollment data element specifying the actual number of participants enrolled must be submitted.

(C) Study Completion Date must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after the clinical trial reaches its actual study completion date.

(D) Overall Recruitment Status must be updated not later than 30 calendar days after any change in overall recruitment status. If, at any time, Overall Recruitment Status is changed to "suspended," "terminated," or "withdrawn," the responsible party must also submit the Why Study Stopped data element.

(E) Record Verification Date must be updated any time the responsible party reviews the complete set of submitted clinical trial information for accuracy and not less than every 12 months, even if no other updated information is submitted at that time.

(3) A responsible party's obligation to submit updates as specified in this section ends on the date on which all required clinical trial results information has been submitted as specified in sections 402(j)(3)(C) and 402(j)(3)(I) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282(j)(3)(C)) and 42 U.S.C. 282(j)(3)(I)) or as specified in § 11.48, as applicable, and corrections have been made or addressed in response to any electronic notice received under § 11.64(b)(1). If no clinical trial results information is required to be submitted, a responsible party's obligation to submit updates to clinical trial registration information ends on the date on which all required clinical trial registration information has been submitted as specified in section 402(j)(2)(A)(ii) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282(j)(2)(A)(ii) or § 11.28, as applicable, and corrections have been made or addressed in response to any electronic notice received under § 11.64(b)(1).
