
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### § 413.130 Introduction to capital-related costs.
####### General rule.

(a)Capital-related costs and an allowance for return on equity are limited to the following:

(1) Net depreciation expense as determined under §§ 413.134, 413.144, and 413.149, adjusted by gains and losses realized from the disposal of depreciable assets under § 413.134(f).

(2) Taxes on land or depreciable assets used for patient care.

(3) Leases and rentals, including license and royalty fees, for the use of depreciable assets or land, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) The costs of betterments and improvements as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) The costs of minor equipment that are capitalized, rather than expensed, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) Insurance expense on depreciable assets, as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(7) Interest expense as determined under § 413.153, subject to the qualifications of paragraph (f) of this section.

(8) For certain proprietary providers, return on equity capital, as determined under § 413.157.

(9) The capital-related costs of related organizations (as described in § 413.17), as determined in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(10) Debt issuance costs, debt discounts, and debt redemption costs, if the associated debt was incurred to acquire land or depreciable assets used for patient care or to refinance existing debt for which the original purpose was to acquire land or depreciable assets used for patient care.

(11) The apportionment of the capital-related costs of jointly owned assets among the owners must be on a basis that reflects the relative use by each owner, rather than the ownership share or the amount of time the asset is located at each owners site.
