
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.130 Introduction to capital-related costs.
####### Leases and rentals.,"leases","rentals of assets"

(b)(1) Subject to the qualifications of paragraphs (b) (2), (4), (5), and (8) of this section, leases and rentals, including licenses and royalty fees, are includable in capital-related costs if they relate to the use of assets that would be depreciable if the provider owned them outright or they relate to land, which is neither depreciable nor amortizable if owned outright. The termsandsignify that a provider has possession, use, and enjoyment of the assets.

(2) For sale and leaseback agreements for hospitals and SNFs entered into before October 23, 1992 and for sale and leaseback agreements for other providers entered into at any time, a provider may include incurred rental charges in its capital-related costs, as specified in a sale and leaseback agreement with a nonrelated purchaser (including shared service organizations not related within the meaning of ยง 413.17) involving plant facilities or equipment only if the following conditions are met:

(i) The rental charges are reasonable based on the following-

(A) Consideration of rental charges of comparable facilities and market conditions in the area;

(B) The type, expected life, condition, and value of the facilities or equipment rented; and

(C) Other provisions of the rental agreements.

(ii) Adequate alternative facilities or equipment that would serve the purpose are not or were not available at lower cost.

(iii) The leasing was based on economic and technical considerations.

(3) If the conditions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are not met, the amount a provider may include in its capital-related costs as rental or lease expense under a sale and leaseback agreement may not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in its capital-related costs had the provider retained legal title to the facilities or equipment, such as interest on mortgage, taxes, depreciation, and insurance costs.

(4) For sale and leaseback agreements for hospitals and SNFs entered into on or after October 23, 1992, the amount a provider may include in its capital-related costs as rental or lease expense may not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in its capital-related costs had the provider retained legal title to the facilities or equipment, such as interest expense on mortgages, taxes, depreciation, and insurance costs (the costs of ownership). This limitation applies both on an annual basis and over the useful life of the asset.

(i) If in the early years of the lease, the annual rental or lease costs are less than the annual costs of ownership, but in the later years of the lease the annual rental or lease costs are more than the annual costs of ownership, in the years that the annual rental or lease costs are more than the annual costs of ownership, the provider may include in capital-related costs annually the actual amount of rental or lease costs. The aggregate rental or lease costs included in capital-related costs may not exceed the aggregate costs of ownership that would have been included in capital-related costs over the useful life of the asset had the provider retained legal title to the asset.

(ii) If in the early years of the lease, the annual rental or lease costs exceed the annual costs of ownership, but in the later years of the lease the annual rental or lease costs are less than the annual costs of ownership, the provider may carry forward amounts of rental or lease costs that were not included in capital-related costs in the early years of the lease due to the costs of ownership limitation, and include these amounts in capital-related costs in the years of the lease when the annual rental or lease costs are less than the annual costs of ownership.

(iii) In any given year the amount of actual annual rental or lease costs plus the amount carried forward to that year may not exceed the amount of the costs of ownership for that year.

(iv) In the aggregate, the amount of rental or lease costs included in capital-related costs may not exceed the amount of the costs of ownership that the provider could have included in capital-related costs had the provider retained legal title to the asset.

(5) For lease purchase transactions entered into before October 23, 1992, a lease that meets the following conditions establishes a virtual purchase:

(i) The rental charge exceeds rental charges of comparable facilities or equipment in the area.

(ii) The term of the lease is less than the useful life of the facilities or equipment.

(iii) The provider has the option to renew the lease at a significantly reduced rental, or the provider has the right to purchase the facilities or equipment at a price that appears to be significantly less than what the fair market value of the facilities or equipment would be at the time acquisition by the provider is permitted.

(6)(i) If a lease is a virtual purchase under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the rental charge is includable in capital-related costs only to the extent that it does not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in capital-related costs if it had legal title to the asset (the cost of ownership), such as straight-line depreciation, insurance, and interest. A provider may not include in its capital-related costs accelerated depreciation in this situation.

(ii) The difference between the amount of rent paid and the amount of rent allowed as capital-related costs is considered a deferred charge and is capitalized as part of the historical cost of the asset when the asset is purchased.

(iii) If an asset is returned to the owner, instead of being purchased, the deferred charge may be included in capital-related costs in the year the asset is returned.

(iv) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase still exists, the deferred charge may be included in capital-related costs to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to an amount not in excess of the cost of ownership.

(v) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase no longer exists, the deferred charge may be included in the capital-related costs to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to a fair rental value.

(7) Amounts included in lease or rental payments for repair or maintenance agreements are excluded from capital-related costs. If no amount is identified in the lease or rental agreement for maintenance, the entire lease payment is considered a capital-related cost subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(8) For lease purchase transactions entered into on or after October 23, 1992, a lease that meets any one of the following conditions establishes a virtual purchase:

(i) The lease transfers title of the facilities or equipment to the lessee during the lease term.

(ii) The lease contains a bargain purchase option.

(iii) The lease term is at least 75 percent of the useful life of the facilities or equipment. This provision is not applicable if the lease begins in the last 25 percent of the useful life of the facilities or equipment.

(iv) The present value of the minimum lease payments (payments to be made during the lease term including bargain purchase option, guaranteed residual value, and penalties for failure to renew) equals at least 90 percent of the fair market value of the leased property. This provision is not applicable if the lease begins in the last 25 percent of the useful life of the facilities or equipment. Present value is computed using the lessee's incremental borrowing rate, unless the interest rate implicit in the lease is known and is less than the lessee's incremental borrowing rate, in which case the interest rate implicit in the lease is used.

(9)(i) If a lease establishes a virtual purchase under paragraph (b)(8) of this section, the rental charge is includable in capital-related costs to the extent that it does not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in capital-related costs if it had legal title to the asset (the cost of ownership). The cost of ownership includes straight-line depreciation, insurance, and interest. For purposes of computing the limitation on allowable rental cost in this paragraph, a provider may not include accelerated depreciation.

(ii) The difference between the amount of rent paid and the amount of rent allowed as capital-related costs is considered a deferred charge and is capitalized as part of the historical cost of the asset when the asset is purchased.

(iii) If an asset is returned to the owner instead of being purchased, the deferred charge may be included in capital-related costs in the year the asset is returned.

(iv) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase still exists, the deferred charge may be included in capital-related costs to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to an amount not in excess of the cost of ownership.

(v) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase no longer exists, the deferred charge may be included in capital-related costs to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to a fair rental value.

(vi) If the lessee becomes the owner of the leased asset (either by operation of the lease or by other means), the amount considered as depreciation, for the purpose of having computed the limitation on rental charges in paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section, must be used in calculating the limitation on adjustments for the purpose of determining any gain or loss under ยง 413.134(f) upon disposal of an asset.
