
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.130 Introduction to capital-related costs.
####### Costs excluded from capital-related costs.

(i)The following costs are not capital-related costs. To the extent that they are allowable, they must be included in determining each provider's operating costs:

(1) Costs incurred for the repair or maintenance of equipment or facilities.

(2) Amounts included in rentals or lease payments for repair or maintenance agreements.

(3) Interest expense incurred to borrow working capital (for operating expenses).

(4) General liability insurance or any other form of insurance to provide protection other than for the replacement of depreciable assets or to pay capital-related costs in the case of business interruption.

(5) Taxes other than those assessed on the basis of some valuation of land or depreciable assets used for patient care. (Taxes not related to patient care, such as income taxes, are not allowable, and are therefore not included among either capital-related or operating costs.)

(6) The costs of minor equipment that are charged off to expense rather than capitalized as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(7) The costs incurred for maintenance and repair insurance agreements (commonly referred to as maintenance agreements).
