
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### § 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### 3

() The fair market value of the asset on the date of acquisition.

(B) For purposes of applying paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, an asset not in existence as of July 18, 1984 includes any asset that physically existed, but was not owned by a hospital or SNF participating in the Medicare program as of July 18, 1984.

(C) The acquisition cost to the owner of record is subject to any limitation on historical costs described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (g)(1) and (2) of this section, and is not reduced by any depreciation taken by the owner of record. This limitation on historical cost is also applied to the purchase of land, a capital asset that is neither depreciable nor amortizable under any circumstances. (See §§ 413.153(d) and 413.157(b) for application of the limitation to the cost of land for purposes of determining allowable interest expense and return on equity capital or proprietary providers.)

(D) Acquisition cost to the owner of record includes the costs of betterments or improvements that extend the estimated useful life of an asset at least two years beyond its original estimated useful life or increase the productivity of an asset significantly over its original productivity.

(E) For assets acquired prior to a hospital's or SNF's entrance into the Medicare program, the acquisition cost to the owner of record is the historical cost of the asset when acquired, rather than when the hospital or SNF entered the program.

(F) For assets subject to the optional depreciation allowance as described in § 413.139, the acquisition cost to the owner of record is the historical cost established for those assets when the hospital or SNF changed to actual depreciation as described in § 413.139(e). If the hospital or SNF did not change to actual depreciation, as described in § 413.139(e), for optional allowance assets, the acquisition cost to the owner of record is established by reference to the hospital's or SNF's recorded historical cost of the asset when acquired. If the hospital or SNF has no historical cost records for optional allowance assets, the acquisition cost to the owner of record is established by appraisal.

(G) The historical cost of an asset acquired on or after July 18, 1984 may not include costs attributable to the negotiation or settlement of the sale or purchase (by acquisition, merger, or consolidation) of any capital asset for which any payment was previously made under the Medicare program. The costs to be excluded include, but are not limited to, appraisal costs (except those incurred at the request of the contractor under paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section), legal fees, accounting and administrative costs, travel costs, and the costs of feasibility studies.
