
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Availability of funded depreciation.

(2)(i) CMS considers funded depreciation available for use in the acquisition or replacement of depreciable assets related to patient care unless the funded depreciation funds have been committed by contract for the acquisition of depreciable assets related to the furnishing of patient care or for other capital purposes related to patient care.

(ii) Borrowing for a purpose for which funded depreciation account funds should have been used makes the borrowing unnecessary to the extent that funded depreciation account funds were available at the time of the borrowing. Available funds in the funded depreciation account, to the extent of the unnecessary borrowing, are called "tainted" funds. Interest expense incurred on borrowing for a capital purpose is not an allowable cost to the extent that funded depreciation account funds were available at the time of the borrowing.

(iii) A provider can remove the "unnecessary" characterization of borrowing, and thereby cure tainted funded depreciation, by using the tainted funds for a proper purpose described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. However, any funded depreciation that existed at the time of the unnecessary borrowing and is not classified as tainted must be used before any of the tainted funds.

(iv) When only a portion of the borrowing is considered unnecessary under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, subsequent repayments of such borrowing from general funds are applied first to the allowable portion of the borrowing and then, when all of the allowable borrowing is repaid, to the unallowable portion of the borrowing. When funds from the funded depreciation account are used for the repayment of the unnecessary borrowing, an equivalent amount of tainted funds is cured without regard to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (e)(3)(i)(C) of this section. Similarly, where general funds are used to pay for the unallowable borrowing after the necessary borrowing has been repaid, an equivalent amount of tainted funded depreciation is cured without regard to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (e)(3)(i)(C) of this section.
