
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### § 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Loans from funded depreciation.

(4)(i) When the general fund of the provider borrows from the funded depreciation to obtain working capital for normal operating expenses to furnish patient care, interest incurred by the general fund is an allowable operating cost only if the interest expense is supported by documents that evidence that the funds were borrowed and that payment of interest and repayment of the funds are required, is separately identified in the provider's accounting records, and meets the necessary and proper tests described in §§ 413.153(b)(2) and (b)(3). However, if the general fund of the provider borrows from the funded depreciation account to acquire depreciable assets used in furnishing patient care, or for other capital purposes related to patient care, interest expense paid by the general fund to the funded depreciation account is not an allowable cost. Providers are expected to use the funded depreciation for these purposes.

(ii) Loans from funded depreciation to the general fund are considered investments of funded depreciation, but do not have to meet the readily marketable test described in paragraph (e) of this section. Loans made from funded depreciation are subject to the requirement that funded depreciation must be available for the acquisition of depreciable assets used to furnish patient care, or for other capital purposes related to patient care. Costs incurred to secure lines of credit from lending institutions to ensure such availability are not allowable costs.

(iii) Funding of depreciation from general funds will not be recognized to the extent of any outstanding loans from the funded depreciation account to the general fund. Deposits from the general fund into the funded depreciation account must be first applied to reduce any loans outstanding from the funded depreciation to the general fund. When the loans are repaid in full, general funds deposited in the funded depreciation account are considered as repayments of the general fund. Therefore, any subsequent interest expense of the general fund paid to the funded depreciation fund is not an allowable cost.

(iv) A provider may loan its funded depreciation to a related organization for any purpose subject to the following conditions:

(A) Authorization for such a loan by the provider's appropriate managing body of the provider, such as Board of Trustees or Board of Directors, must be on file.

(B) The funded depreciation loaned must remain available, as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, to the provider making the loan. Costs incurred for lines of credit to assure such availability are not allowable costs. During the period of time that the loan is outstanding, if the provider making the loan resorts to outside borrowing for a purpose for which its funded depreciation should have been used, interest expense on an amount of the outside borrowing up to the amount of the funded depreciation that should have been available would be disallowed as unnecessary.

(C) Such loans shall be considered investments of the provider's funded depreciation, but the requirement that funded depreciation be invested in readily marketable investments as required in paragraph (e) of this section is waived for such loans.

(D) The funded depreciation account must earn interest on such loans at a rate that does not exceed the rate that would be charged for a comparable loan from an independent lending institution. This investment income will not be used to reduce the provider's interest expense if all the other conditions in paragraph (e) of this section are met. If the entity borrowing the funds is another provider participating in the Medicare program, the interest expense incurred on such loans would be allowable if the loan meets all of the interest expense requirements specified in § 413.153. (For purposes of § 413.153(b)(3)(ii), such loans are not considered to be with a related lender.)
