
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Bona fide sale or scrapping before December 1, 1997.

(2)For the bona fide sale or scrapping of depreciable assets before December 1, 1997, the following apply:

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, gains and losses realized from the bona fide sale or scrapping of depreciable assets are included in the determination of allowable cost only if the sale or scrapping occurs while the provider is participating in Medicare. The extent to which such gains and losses are included is calculated by prorating the basis for depreciation of the asset in accordance with the proportion of the asset's useful life for which the provider participated in Medicare. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2)(i), scrapping refers to the physical removal from the provider's premises of tangible personal properties that are no longer useful for their intended purpose and are only salable for their scrap or junk value.

(ii) If the total amount of gains or losses realized from bona fide sales or scrapping does not exceed $5,000 within the cost reporting period or if the provider's cumulative utilization under the Medicare program is less than 5 percent, the net amount of gains or losses realized from sale or scrapping will be allowed as a depreciation adjustment in the period of disposal. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2)(ii), the provider's cumulative Medicare utilization precentage is determined by comparing the cumulative total of the Medicare inpatient days for all reporting periods in which depreciation on the asset disposed of was claimed under the Medicare program to the cumulative total of inpatient days of the participating provider for the same reporting periods.

(iii) If the conditions specified in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section are not met, the adjustment to reimbursable cost in the reporting period of asset disposition is calculated as follows:

(A) The total amount of gains or losses shall be allocated to all reporting periods under the Medicare program, based on the ratio of the depreciation allowed on the assets in each reporting period to the total depreciation allowed under the Medicare program.

(B) The results of this allocation are multiplied by the ratio of Medicare reimbursable cost to total allowable cost for each reporting period.

(C) The results of this multiplication are then added.

(D) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991, no adjustment will be made for the portion of gains or losses allocated to inpatient hospital services for which the hospital was paid under the fully prospective payment methodology as described in ยง 412.340 of this chapter or under the hold-harmless methodology based on the Federal rate as described in ยง 412.344(a)(1) of this chapter for new capital costs or in ยง 412.344(a)(2) of this chapter.

(iv) If a provider sells more than one asset for a lump sum sales price, the gain or loss on the sale of each depreciable asset must be determined by allocating the lump sum sales price among all the assets sold, in accordance with the fair market value of each asset as it was used by the provider at the time of sale. If the buyer and seller cannot agree on an allocation of the sales price, or if they do agree but there is insufficient documentation of the current fair market value of each asset, the contractor for the selling provider will require an appraisal by an independent appraisal expert to establish the fair market value of each asset and will make an allocation of the sales price in accordance with the appraisal.
