
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Demolition or abandonment.

(5)(i) For purposes of this section, the term "abandonment" means the permanent retirement of an asset for any future purpose, not merely the provider's ceasing to use the asset for patient care purposes. To claim an abandonment under the Medicare program, the provider must have relinquished all rights, title, claim, and possession of the asset with the intention of never reclaiming it or resuming its ownership, possession, or enjoyment.

(ii) If losses resulting from the demolition or abandonment of depreciable assets do not exceed $5,000 within the cost-reporting period, the losses are to be allowed in the period of disposal.

(iii) If losses exceed $5,000 and, at the date of disposition, the demolished or abandoned assets are at least 80 percent depreciated as computed under the straight-line method, such losses are includable in the determination of allowable cost under the Medicare program in the period of disposal and the procedure provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section must be used in determining the adjustment to reimbursable cost.

(iv) Losses in excess of $5,000 resulting from the demolition or abandonment of assets, which at the date of disposition are not 80 percent depreciated as computed under the straight-line method, must be capitalized as a deferred charge and amortized as follows:

(A) If the State Health Planning and Development Agency (SHPDA) designated under section 1521 of the Public Health Service Act approves the demolition or abandonment of a depreciable asset as being consistent with the health systems plan of the health service area in which the provider is located, the net loss realized shall be capitalized as a deferred charge and amortized over the remaining life of the demolished or abandoned asset, or at the rate of $5,000 per year, whichever is greater. If no SHPDA exists or if such agency is unable or unwilling to perform this function, the provider must submit a request for approval to the contractor. The contractor, after reviewing this request and before issuing the approval, will submit the request along with its recommendation to the appropriate Regional Office for its approval.

(B) If a provider fails to obtain approval as specified in paragraph (f)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, a loss is not allowable unless the demolished or abandoned asset is replaced. If the asset is replaced, the loss resulting from the unapproved demolition or abandonment must be capitalized as a deferred charge and amortized over the estimated useful life of the replacement asset or at the rate of $5,000 per year, whichever is greater.

(v) If a loss resulting from the demolition or abandonment is deferred and amortized and the provider terminates its participation in the Medicare program or ceases to use a replacement asset in the provision of patient care services, the unamortized deferred charge remaining at that time must not be included in determining allowable cost under the Medicare program.

(vi) Losses on demolition must include the demolition cost incurred by the provider for razing and removal of the asset, less any salvage value recovered by the provider. However, if a provider demolishes a depreciable asset for the purpose of preparing land for future sale, the net demolition cost incurred by the provider (razing and removal costs less salvage recovered) is considered a capital expenditure and added to the historical basis of the land.

(vii) If a provider purchases land on which there is a building, no depreciation will be allowed under the Medicare program unless the building is used in providing patient care. If the building is demolished, the entire purchase price and demolition cost shall be considered the historical cost of the land. If the building is used for patient care, but demolished within 5 years of purchase, the entire purchase price, less allowed depreciation, plus demolition cost will be considered the historical cost of the land.
