
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Sale and leaseback agreements and other lease transactions.

(h)(1) For sale and leaseback agreements for all providers, and for sale and leaseback agreements for hospitals and SNFs entered into before October 23, 1992, a provider may include in its allowable costs incurred rental charges, as specified in a sale and leaseback agreement with a nonrelated purchaser involving plant facilities or equipment, only if-

(i) The rental charges are reasonable based on consideration of rental charges of comparable facilities and market conditions in the area; the type, expected life, condition, and value of the facilities or equipment rented; and other provisions of the rental agreement;

(ii) Adequate alternate facilities or equipment that would serve the purpose are not or were not available at lower cost; and

(iii) The leasing was based on economic and technical considerations.

(2) If the conditions of paragraph (h)(1) of this section are not met, the amount a provider may include in its allowable costs as rental or lease expense under a sale and leaseback agreement may not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in its allowable costs had the provider retained legal title to the facilities or equipment such as interest expense on mortgages, taxes, depreciation, and insurance costs.

(3) For hospitals and SNFs entering into sale and leaseback agreements on or after October 23, 1992, the amount a provider may include in its allowable costs as rental or lease expense may not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in its allowable costs had the provider retained legal title to the facilities or equipment, such as interest expense on mortgages, taxes, depreciation, and insurance costs (the costs of ownership). This limitation applies both on an annual basis and over the useful life of the asset.

(i) If in the early years of the lease, the annual rental or lease costs are less than the annual costs of ownership, but in the later years of the lease the annual rental or lease costs are more than the annual costs of ownership, in the years that the annual rental or lease costs are more than the costs of ownership the provider may include in allowable costs annually the actual amount of rental or lease costs. The aggregate rental or lease costs included in allowable costs may not exceed the aggregate costs of ownership that would have been included in allowable costs over the useful life of the asset had the provider retained legal title to the asset.

(ii) If in the early years of the lease, the annual rental or lease costs exceed the annual costs of ownership, but in the later years of the lease the annual rental or lease costs are less than the annual costs of ownership, the provider may carry forward amounts of rental or lease costs that were not included in allowable costs in the early years of the lease due to the costs of ownership limitation, and include these amounts in allowable costs in the years of the lease when the annual rental or lease costs are less than the annual costs of ownership. In any given year the amount of actual annual rental or lease costs plus the amount carried forward to that year may not exceed the amount of the costs of ownership for that year.

(iii) In the aggregate, the amount of rental or lease costs included in allowable costs may not exceed the amount of the costs of ownership that the provider could have included in allowable costs had the provider retained legal title to the asset.

(4) For lease transactions of all providers entered into before October 23, 1992, a lease that meets the following conditions establishes a virtual purchase:

(i) The rental charge exceeds rental charges of comparable facilities or equipment in the area.

(ii) The term of the lease is less than the useful life of the facilities or equipment.

(iii) The provider has the option to renew the lease at a significantly reduced rental, or the provider has the right to purchase the facilities or equipment at a price that appears to be significantly less than what the fair market value of the facilities or equipment would be at the time acquisition by the provider is permitted.

(5)(i) If a lease is a virtual purchase under paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the rental charge is includable in allowable costs only to the extent that it does not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in allowable costs if it had legal title to the asset (the cost of ownership), such as straight-line depreciation, insurance, and interest. For purposes of computing the limitation on allowable rental cost in this paragraph, a provider may not include accelerated depreciation.

(ii) The difference between the amount of rent paid and the amount of rent allowed as rental expense is considered a deferred charge and must be capitalized as part of the historical cost of the asset when the asset is purchased.

(iii) If an asset is returned to the owner instead of being purchased, the deferred charge may be expensed in the year the asset is returned.

(iv) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase still exists, the deferred charge may be expensed to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to an amount not in excess of the cost of ownership.

(v) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase no longer exists, the deferred charge may be expensed to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to a fair rental value.

(6) For lease transactions entered into on or after October 23, 1992, a lease that meets any one of the following conditions establishes a virtual purchase:

(i) The lease transfers title of the facilities or equipment to the lessee during the lease term.

(ii) The lease contains a bargain purchase option.

(iii) The lease term is 75 percent or more of the useful life of the facilities or equipment. This provision is not applicable if the lease begins in the last 25 percent of the useful life of the facilities or equipment.

(iv) The present value of the minimum lease payments (that is, payments to be made during the lease term, including bargain purchase option, guaranteed residual value, or penalties for failure to renew) equals 90 percent or more of the fair market value of the leased property. This provision is not applicable if the lease begins in the last 25 percent of the useful life of the facilities or equipment. The present value is computed using the lessee's incremental borrowing rate, unless the interest rate implicit in the lease is known and is less than the lessee's incremental borrowing rate, in which case, the interest rate implicit in the lease is used.

(7)(i) If a lease is a virtual purchase under paragraph (h)(6) of this section, the rental charge is includable in allowable costs only to the extent that it does not exceed the amount that the provider would have included in allowable costs if it had legal title to the asset (the costs of ownership), such as straight-line depreciation, insurance, and interest. For purposes of computing the limitation on allowable rental cost as described in this paragraph, a provider may not include accelerated depreciation in its allowable costs.

(ii) The difference between the amount of rent paid and the amount of rent allowed as rental expense is considered a deferred charge and is capitalized as part of the historical cost of the asset when the asset is purchased.

(iii) If an asset is returned to the owner instead of being purchased, the deferred charge may be expensed in the year the asset is returned.

(iv) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase still exists, the deferred charge may be expensed to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to an amount not in excess of the cost of ownership.

(v) If the term of the lease is extended for an additional period of time at a reduced lease cost and the option to purchase no longer exists, the deferred charge may be expensed to the extent of increasing the reduced rental to a fair rental value.

(vi) If the lessee becomes the owner of the leased asset (either by operation of the lease or by other means), the amount considered as depreciation, for the purpose of having computed the limitation expressed in paragraph (h)(7)(i) of this section, must be used in calculating the limitation on adjustments to depreciation for the purpose of determining any gain or loss upon disposal of an asset under paragraph (f) of this section.
