
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Intergovernmental transfer of facilities.

(i)The basis for depreciation of assets transferred under appropriate legal authority from one governmental entity to another is as follows:

(1) The historical cost incurred by the present owner in acquiring the asset under a bona fide sale. The historical cost may not exceed the lower of current reproduction cost adjusted for straight-line depreciation over the life of the asset to the time of the purchase of fair market value at the time of the purchase.

(2) The fair market value at the time of donation under a bona fide donation of the asset (subject to the limitations set forth under paragraph (i) of this section). An asset is considered donated when a governmental entity acquires the asset without assuming the functions for which the transferor used the asset or making any payment for it in the form of cash, property, or services.

(3) If neither paragraph (h) (1) nor (2) of this section applies, for example, the transfer was solely to facilitate administration or to reallocate jurisdictional responsibility, or the transfer constituted a taking over in whole or in part of the function of one governmental entity by another governmental entity, the basis for depreciation is-

(i) With respect to an asset on which the transferor has claimed depreciation under the Medicare program, the transferor's basis under the Medicare program prior to the transfer. The method of depreciation used by the transferee may be the same as that used by the transferor, or the transferee may change the method, as permitted under paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or

(ii) With respect to an asset on which the transferor has not claimed depreciation under the Medicare program, the cost incurred by the transferor in acquiring the asset (not to exceed the basis that would have been recognized had the transferor participated in the Medicare program) less depreciation calculated on the straight-line basis over the life of the asset to the time of transfer.
