
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.134 Depreciation: Allowance for depreciation based on asset costs.
####### Involuntary conversion.

(6)(i) Losses resulting from the involuntary conversion of depreciable assets, such as condemnation, fire, theft, or other casualty, are generally included in the determination of allowable cost on a deferred basis if the asset is restored or replaced. However, losses resulting from a provider's imprudent management of its depreciable assets, such as the failure to obtain proper insurance coverage, are not included in the determination of allowable cost.

(ii) The net allowable loss from involuntary conversion must consist of the undepreciated cost of unrecovered book value of the asset, less amounts received from insurance proceeds gifts, and grants received from local, State, or Federal government, or any other source as a result of the involuntary conversion.

(iii) If the asset is replaced and the net allowable loss in any cost-reporting period does not exceed $5,000, the entire amount must be included in allowable cost in the period in which the loss is incurred. If the asset is replaced and the net allowable loss in any cost-reporting period exceeds $5,000, the loss must be capitalized as a deferred charge and amortized over the useful life of the replacement or restored asset. If a replaced or restored asset ceases to be used in the provision of patient care services or the provider terminates its participation in the Medicare program, the unamortized deferred charge remaining at that time will not be included in determining allowable cost under the Medicare program.

(iv) If the provider fails to replace or restore an involuntarily converted asset, the loss is not included in determining allowable cost. However, if the provider intends to replace or restore the asset but is unable to do so because the designated SHPDA finds such replacement or restoration to be inconsistent with the health systems plan of the provider's health service area, the loss is allowable so long as the provider continues to participate in Medicare. In this case, the loss must be capitalized as a deferred charge and amortized over the remaining life of the involuntarily converted asset, or at the rate of $5,000 per year, whichever is greater.

(v) If a gain is realized from an involuntary conversion of depreciable assets, the net amount realized reduces the basis of the restored or replacement asset. If the asset is not restored or replaced, the gain is to be treated in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
