
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.139 Depreciation: Optional allowance for depreciation based on a percentage of operating costs.
####### Limitation on depreciation if optional allowance is used.

(g)This optional allowance only is subject to a limitation based on the provider's total allowable operating cost for the current year. To determine this limitation, compute the sum of the actual depreciation claimed, the allowance based on a percentage of operating costs, and the estimated straight-line depreciation on depreciable-type assets rented after 1965. If this sum exceeds six percent of the provider's current year's allowable cost (exclusive of any actual depreciation claimed, estimated depreciation on rented depreciable-type assets, allowance in lieu of specific recognition of other costs, and return on equity capital), the allowance for depreciation based on a percentage of operating costs is reduced by the amount of excess. In applying this limitation, if the actual depreciation claimed is on an accelerated basis, it must be converted to a straight-line basis only for use in calculating this limitation. It is presumed that pre-1966 assets will not be retired at a greater than normal rate, and the limitation of six percent, as it affects the availability of the allowance, is designed as a safeguard if the presumption is not borne out. If the provider does not elect to use the optional allowance, the combined allowance for depreciation based on costs of pre-1966 assets and those subsequently acquired is not subject to the six percent limitation.
