
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.153 Interest expense.
####### Loans not reasonably related to patient care.

(d)(1) The following types of loans are not considered to be for a purpose reasonably related to patient care:

(i) For loans made to finance acquisition of a facility, that portion of the cost that exceeds-

(A) Historical cost as determined under ยง 413.134(b); or

(B) The cost basis determined under ยง 413.134(g); and

(ii) Loans made to finance capital stock acquisitions, mergers, or consolidations for which revaluation of assets is not allowed under ยง 413.134(k).

(2) In determining whether a loan was made for the purpose of acquiring a facility, we apply any owner's investment or funds first to the tangible assets, then to the intangible assets other than goodwill, and lastly to the goodwill. If the owner's investment or funds are not sufficient to cover the cost allowed for tangible assets, we apply funds borrowed to finance the acquisition to the portion of the allowed cost of the tangible assets not covered by the owner's investment, then to the intangible assets other than goodwill, and lastly to the goodwill. Repayments of the funds borrowed are applied first to the borrowing related to the tangible assets, then to the borrowing related to the intangible assets other than goodwill, and lastly to the borrowing related to the goodwill.

(3) When a provider borrows funds, but only some of the funds are necessary, repayments of the loan (principal and interest portions) are applied first to pay for the necessary portion of the loan. Only after all of the necessary portion of the loan (principal and interest) has been repaid are any repayments applied to the unnecessary portion of the loan. Repayments toward non-allowable borrowing pertaining to assets or activities not related to patient care are considered investments, and the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section are applied.
