
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart G - Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 413.153 Interest expense.
####### Use of effective interest method.

(3)(i) Interest expense and interest income from zero coupon bonds that are reported as they accrue must be amortized using the effective interest method. This method recognizes the actual accrual of interest expense or income for each interest computation period (as specified by the bond instrument) throughout the life of the bond.

(ii) A constant effective yield rate is determined and applied to the book value (outstanding loan balance including prior accrued interest) of the bond at the beginning of each period to determine the total interest for the period.

(iii) If the interest computation period involves portions of more than one cost reporting period, the amount of interest for that computation period shall be apportioned to each cost reporting period.

(iv) An example of the computation of interest using the effective interest method follows:

Life of zero coupon bond: 15 years.

Value at maturity: $50,000.

Bondholder pays $6,996 for the bond.

Annual interest rate is 13.5506% compounded semi-annually.

From the table below, interest for the first year would be $980.11 ($474.00 plus $506.11).
