
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart H - Payment for End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### § 413.174 Prospective rates for hospital-based and independent ESRD facilities.
####### Additional payment for separately billable drugs and biologicals.

(f)Prior to January 1, 2011, CMS makes additional payment directly to an ESRD facility for certain ESRD-related drugs and biologicals furnished to ESRD patients.

(1) Only on an assignment basis, directly to the facility which must accept, as payment in full, the amount that CMS determines;

(2) Subject to the Part B deductible and coinsurance;

(3) For drugs furnished prior to January 1, 2006, payment is made to hospital-based ESRD providers of services on a reasonable cost basis. Effective January 1, 2006, and prior to January 1, 2011, payment for drugs furnished by a hospital-based ESRD provider of service is based on the methodology specified in § 414.904 of this chapter.

(4) For drugs furnished prior to January 1, 2006, payment is made to independent ESRD facilities based on the methodology specified in § 405.517 of this chapter. Effective January 1, 2006, and prior to January 1, 2011, payment for drugs and biological furnished by independent ESRD facilities is based on the methodology specified in § 414.904 of this chapter.

(5) Effective January 1, 2011, except as provided below, payment to an ESRD facility for renal dialysis service drugs and biologicals as defined in § 413.171, furnished to ESRD patients on or after January 1, 2011 is incorporated within the prospective payment system rates established by CMS in § 413.230 and separate payment will no longer be provided.

(6) Effective January 1, 2025, payment to an ESRD facility for renal dialysis service drugs and biologicals with only an oral form furnished to ESRD patients is incorporated within the prospective payment system rates established by CMS in § 413.230 and separate payment will no longer be provided.
