
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart H - Payment for End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### ยง 413.178 ESRD quality incentive program.
####### Data submission requirement.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) and (4) of this section, and for a payment year, facilities must submit to CMS data on each measure specified by CMS under paragraph (c) of this section. Facilities must submit these data in the form, manner, and at a time specified by CMS.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the baseline period that applies to each of payment year 2023 and payment year 2024 is calendar year 2019 for purposes of calculating the achievement threshold, benchmark and minimum total performance score, and calendar year 2019 for purposes of calculating the improvement threshold. The baseline period that applies to payment year 2025 is calendar year 2021 for purposes of calculating the achievement threshold, benchmark and minimum total performance score, and calendar year 2022 for purposes of calculating the improvement threshold, and the performance period that applies to payment year 2025 is calendar year 2023. Beginning with payment year 2026, the performance period and corresponding baseline periods are each advanced 1 year for each successive payment year.

(3) A facility may request and CMS may grant exceptions to the reporting requirements under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for one or more calendar days, when there are certain extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the facility.
