
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart H - Payment for End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### ยง 413.178 ESRD quality incentive program.
####### Performance scoring under the ESRD QIP.

(e)(1) CMS will award points to an ESRD facility based on its performance on each clinical measure for which the ESRD facility reports the applicable minimum number of cases during the performance period for a payment year, and based on the degree to which the ESRD facility submits data and completes other actions specified by CMS for a reporting measure during the performance period for a payment year.

(i) CMS will award from 1 to 9 points for achievement on a clinical measure to each ESRD facility whose performance on that measure during the applicable performance period meets or exceeds the achievement threshold but is less than the benchmark specified for that measure.

(ii) CMS will award 0 points for achievement on a clinical measure to each ESRD facility whose performance on that measure during the applicable performance period falls below the achievement threshold specified for that measure.

(iii) CMS will award from 0 to 9 points for improvement on a clinical measure to each ESRD facility whose performance on that measure during the applicable performance period meets or exceeds the improvement threshold but is less than the benchmark specified for that measure.

(iv) CMS will award 0 points for improvement on a clinical measure to each ESRD facility whose performance on that measure during the applicable performance period is below the improvement threshold specified for that measure.

(v) CMS will award 10 points to each ESRD facility whose performance on a clinical measure during the applicable performance period meets or exceeds the benchmark specified for that measure.

(vi) CMS will award from 0 to 10 points to each ESRD facility on a reporting measure based on the degree to which, during the applicable performance period, the ESRD facility reports data and completes other actions specified by CMS with respect to that measure.

(2) CMS calculates the TPS for an ESRD facility for a payment year as follows:

(i) CMS calculates a domain score for each domain based on the total number of points the ESRD facility has earned under paragraph (e)(1) of this section for each measure in the domain and the weight that CMS has assigned to each measure.

(ii) CMS weights each domain score in accordance with the domain weight that CMS has established for the payment year.

(iii) The sum of the weighted domain scores is the ESRD facility's TPS for the payment year.
