
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart H - Payment for End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### ยง 413.178 ESRD quality incentive program.
####### https://www.qualitynet.org/,ESRDQIP@cms.hhs.gov.

(4) A facility may request an exception within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred by submitting the Extraordinary Circumstances Exception request form, which is available on the QualityNet website (), to CMS via email to the ESRD QIP mailbox atFacilities must provide the following information on the form:

(i) Facility CCN.

(ii) Facility name.

(iii) CEO name and contact information.

(iv) Additional contact name and contact information.

(v) Reason for requesting an exception.

(vi) Dates affected.

(vii) Date the facility will start submitting data again, with justification for this date.

(viii) Evidence of the impact of the extraordinary circumstances, including but not limited to photographs, newspaper, and other media articles.

(5) CMS will not consider an exception request unless the facility requesting such exception has complied with the requirements in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(6) CMS may grant exceptions to facilities without a request if it determines that one or more of the following has occurred:

(i) An extraordinary circumstance affects an entire region or locale.

(ii) An unresolved issue with a CMS data system affected the ability of a facility to submit data in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section and CMS was unable to provide the facility with an alternative method of data submission.
