
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart H - Payment for End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### ยง 413.234 Drug designation process.
####### Transitional drug add-on payment adjustment.

(c)A new renal dialysis drug or biological product is paid for using a transitional drug add-on payment adjustment, which is based on 100 percent of average sales price (ASP). If ASP is not available then the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment is based on 100 percent of wholesale acquisition cost (WAC) and, when WAC is not available, the payment is based on the drug manufacturer's invoice. Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, if CMS does not receive a full calendar quarter of ASP data for a new renal dialysis drug or biological product within 30 days of the last day of the 3rd calendar quarter after we begin applying the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment for the product, CMS will no longer apply the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment for that product beginning no later than 2-calendar quarters after we determine a full calendar quarter of ASP data is not available. If CMS stops receiving the latest full calendar quarter of ASP data for a new renal dialysis drug or biological product during the applicable time period specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, CMS will no longer apply the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment for the product beginning no later than 2-calendar quarters after CMS determines that the latest full calendar quarter of ASP data is not available.

(1) A new renal dialysis drug or biological product that is considered included in the ESRD PPS base rate is paid the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment for 2 years.

(i) Following payment of the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment the ESRD PPS base rate will not be modified.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) A new renal dialysis drug or biological product that is not considered included in the ESRD PPS base rate is paid the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment until sufficient claims data for rate setting analysis for the new renal dialysis drug or biological product is available, but not for less than 2 years.

(i) Following payment of the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment the ESRD PPS base rate will be modified, if appropriate, to account for the new renal dialysis drug or biological in the ESRD PPS bundled payment.

(ii) [Reserved]
