
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart H - Payment for End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### ยง 413.239 Transition period.
####### One-time election.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, ESRD facilities may make a one-time election to be paid for renal dialysis services provided during the transition based on 100 percent of the payment amount determined under ยง 413.215 of this part, rather than based on the payment amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the election must be received by each ESRD facility's Medicare administrative contractor (MAC) by November 1, 2010. Requests received by the MAC after November 1, 2010, will not be accepted regardless of postmarks, or delivered dates. MACs will establish the manner in which an ESRD facility will indicate their intention to be excluded from the transition and paid entirely based on payment under the ESRD PPS. Once the election is made, it may not be rescinded.

(2) If the ESRD facility fails to submit an election, or the ESRD facility's election is not received by their MAC by November 1, 2010, payments to the ESRD facility for items and services provided during the transition will be based on the payment amounts determined under paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) ESRD facilities that become certified for Medicare participation and begin to provide renal dialysis services, as defined in ยง 413.171 of this part, between November 1, 2010 and December 31, 2010, must notify their designated MAC of their election choice at the time of enrollment.
