
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart J - Prospective Payment for Skilled Nursing Facilities
###### ยง 413.337 Methodology for calculating the prospective payment rates.
####### Update formula.

(1)The unadjusted Federal payment rate shall be updated as follows:

(i) For the initial period beginning on July 1, 1998, and ending on September 30, 1999, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed under paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for such period minus 1.0 percentage point.

(ii) For fiscal year 2000, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the initial period described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for that period minus 1.0 percentage point.

(iii) For fiscal year 2001, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year.

(iv) For fiscal years 2002 and 2003, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year involved minus 0.5 percentage points.

(v) For each subsequent fiscal year, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year involved, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.

(vi) For fiscal year 2018, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a SNF market basket index percentage change of 1 percent (after application of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section).

(vii) For fiscal year 2019, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a SNF market basket index percentage change of 2.4 percent (after application of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section).
