
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart J - Prospective Payment for Skilled Nursing Facilities
###### ยง 413.338 Skilled nursing facility value-based purchasing program.
####### https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality-Initiatives-Patient-Assessment-Instruments/Value-Based-Programs/SNF-VBP/Extraordinary-Circumstance-Exception-.,https://qualitynet.cms.gov/

(ii) A SNF may request an exception within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred in the form and manner specified by CMS on the SNF VBP website atThe request must include a completed Extraordinary Circumstances Request form (available on) and any available evidence of the impact of the extraordinary circumstances on the care that the SNF furnished to patients including, but not limited to, photographs and media articles.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, CMS will not consider an exception request unless the SNF requesting such exception has complied fully with the requirements in this paragraph (d).

(iv) CMS may grant exceptions to SNFs without a request if it determines that an extraordinary circumstance affects an entire region or locale.

(v) CMS will calculate a SNF performance score for a fiscal year for a SNF for which it has granted an exception request that does not include its performance on the SNF readmission measure during the calendar months affected by the extraordinary circumstance.

(5) CMS will specify the measures for application in the SNF VBP Program for a given fiscal year.

(6)(i) Performance standards are announced no later than 60 days prior to the start of the performance period that applies to that measure for that fiscal year.

(ii) Beginning with the performance standards that apply to FY 2021, if CMS discovers an error in the performance standard calculations subsequent to publishing their numerical values for a fiscal year, CMS will update the numerical values to correct the error. If CMS subsequently discovers one or more other errors with respect to the same fiscal year, CMS will not further update the numerical values for that fiscal year.
