
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart J - Prospective Payment for Skilled Nursing Facilities
###### ยง 413.338 Skilled nursing facility value-based purchasing program.
####### Performance scoring under the SNF VBP Program (applicable, as described in this paragraph, to fiscal year 2019 through and including fiscal year 2025).

(d)(1) CMS will award points to SNFs based on their performance on the SNF readmission measure applicable to a fiscal year during the performance period applicable to that fiscal year as follows:

(i) CMS will award from 1 to 99 points for achievement to each SNF whose performance meets or exceeds the achievement threshold but is less than the benchmark.

(ii) CMS will award from 0 to 90 points for improvement to each SNF whose performance exceeds the improvement threshold but is less than the benchmark.

(iii) CMS will award 100 points to a SNF whose performance meets or exceeds the benchmark.

(iv) CMS will not award points for improvement to a SNF that has fewer than 25 eligible stays during the baseline period.

(2) The highest of the SNF's achievement, improvement and benchmark score will be the SNF's performance score for the fiscal year.

(3) If, with respect to a fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2019 through and including fiscal year 2022, CMS determines that a SNF is a low-volume SNF, CMS will assign a performance score to the SNF for the fiscal year that, when used to calculate the value-based incentive payment amount (as defined in paragraph (a)(17) of this section), results in a value-based incentive payment amount that is equal to the adjusted Federal per diem rate (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) that would apply to the SNF for the fiscal year without application of ยง 413.337(f).

(4)(i) A SNF may request and CMS may grant exceptions to the SNF Value-Based Purchasing Program's requirements under this section for one or more calendar months when there are certain extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the SNF.
