
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart J - Prospective Payment for Skilled Nursing Facilities
###### ยง 413.360 Requirements under the Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) Quality Reporting Program (QRP).
####### Data submission requirement.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, and for a program year, SNFs must submit to CMS data on measures specified under sections 1899B(c)(1) and 1899B(d)(1) of the Social Security Act and standardized resident assessment data in accordance with section 1899B(b)(1) of the Social Security Act, in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS.

(2) CMS may remove a quality measure from the SNF QRP based on one or more of the following factors:

(i) Measure performance among SNFs is so high and unvarying that meaningful distinctions in improvements in performance can no longer be made.

(ii) Performance or improvement on a measure does not result in better resident outcomes.

(iii) A measure does not align with current clinical guidelines or practice.

(iv) The availability of a more broadly applicable (across settings, populations, or conditions) measure for the particular topic.

(v) The availability of a measure that is more proximal in time to desired resident outcomes for the particular topic.

(vi) The availability of a measure that is more strongly associated with desired resident outcomes for the particular topic.

(vii) Collection or public reporting of a measure leads to negative unintended consequences other than resident harm.

(viii) The costs associated with a measure outweigh the benefit of its continued use in the program.
