
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart J - Prospective Payment for Skilled Nursing Facilities
###### ยง 413.360 Requirements under the Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) Quality Reporting Program (QRP).
####### SNFQRPReconsiderations@cms.hhs.gov

(2) A SNF may request an exception or extension within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred by sending an email tothat contains all of the following information:

(i) SNF CMS Certification Number (CCN).

(ii) SNF Business Name.

(iii) SNF Business Address.

(iv) CEO or CEO-designated personnel contact information including name, telephone number, title, email address, and mailing address. (The address must be a physical address, not a post office box.)

(v) SNF's reason for requesting the exception or extension.

(vi) Evidence of the impact of extraordinary circumstances, including, but not limited to, photographs, newspaper, and other media articles.

(vii) Date when the SNF believes it will be able to again submit SNF QRP data and a justification for the proposed date.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, CMS will not consider an exception or extension request unless the SNF requesting such exception or extension has complied fully with the requirements in this paragraph (c).

(4) CMS may grant exceptions or extensions to SNFs without a request if it determines that one or more of the following has occurred:

(i) An extraordinary circumstance affects an entire region or locale.

(ii) A systemic problem with one of CMS's data collection systems directly affected the ability of a SNF to submit data in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
