
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.402 Organ acquisition costs.
####### Costs not related to organ acquisition.

(d)(1) Items or services that are not related or reasonable to acquire an organ for transplantation, non-allowable administrative and general costs, or costs that are not related to patient care, are not considered organ acquisition costs.

(2) Examples of items or services that are not organ acquisition costs include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Donor burial and funeral expenses.

(ii) Transportation costs of the deceased donor after organ procurement for funeral services or for burial.

(iii) Transportation costs for a living donor.

(iv) Fees or in-center payments for donor referrals.

(v) Costs associated with and incurred for OPO-sponsored seminars where continuing education credits are given and where the attendee is not on the OPO's staff (as described at ยง 486.326(b)).

(vi) Unreasonable costs incurred for administrator's duties associated with professional organizations.
