
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.402 Organ acquisition costs.
####### Types of costs.

(b)Organ acquisition costs are as follows:

(1) Tissue typing, including tissue typing furnished by independent laboratories.

(2) Donor and beneficiary evaluation.

(3) Other costs associated with excising organs, such as general routine and special care services (for example, intensive care unit or critical care unit services), provided to the living or deceased donor.

(4) Operating room and other inpatient ancillary services applicable to the living or deceased donor.

(5) Organ preservation and perfusion costs.

(6) Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network registration fees, and the reasonable and necessary cost of other fees, such as the registration fees for a kidney paired exchange, to register candidates for organ transplants. These allowable registry fees must support or promote organ transplantation and must not be duplicative in nature.

(7) Surgeons' fees for excising deceased organs (currently limited to $1,250 for kidneys).

(8) Transportation of the:

(i) Excised organ to the TH; and

(ii) Deceased donor to procure organs when it is necessary to preserve clinical outcomes or to avoid loss of potentially transplantable organs.

(9) Costs of organs acquired from other hospitals or organ procurement organizations.

(10) Hospital costs normally classified as outpatient costs applicable to organ excisions (services include donor and recipient tissue typing, work-up, and related services furnished prior to inpatient admission).

(11) Costs of services applicable to organ excisions which are rendered by residents and interns not in approved teaching programs.

(12) All pre-admission services applicable to organ excisions, such as laboratory, electroencephalography, and the costs of physicians' services.
