
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.404 Standard acquisition charge.
####### 8

() Transportation costs of the excised organ as specified in ยง 413.402(b)(8)(i) of this subpart.

(ii) Deceased donor SAC for TH/HOPOs-(A) Definition. The deceased donor SAC is an average cost that a TH/HOPO incurs to procure a deceased donor organ.

(B) Calculating the deceased donor SAC-(1) Initial deceased donor SAC. A TH/HOPO calculates its initial deceased donor SAC for each deceased donor organ type as follows:

(i) By estimating the reasonable and necessary costs it expects to incur to procure deceased donor organs, combined with the expected costs of acquiring deceased donor organs from OPOs or other THs.

(ii) By dividing the estimated amount described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B)(1)(i) of this section by the projected number of usable deceased donor organs to be procured by the TH/HOPO within the TH's cost reporting period.

(C) Costs to develop the deceased donor SAC. Costs that may be used to develop the deceased donor SAC include, but are not limited to the following:

(1) Costs of organs acquired from other THs or OPOs.

(2) Costs of transportation as specified in ยง 413.402(b)(8).

(3) Surgeons' fees for excising deceased donor organs (currently limited to $1,250 for kidneys).
