
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.412 Intent to transplant, intent for research, counting en bloc, and unusable organs.
####### Principles for organs intended for transplant for organ acquisition payment purposes.

(a)(1) An organ is intended for transplant when the OPO or TH designates it for transplant prior to the time the donor enters the hospital's operating room for surgical excision/recovery of the organ(s).

(2) OPOs and THs must identify the costs associated with the recovered and unrecovered organs and apportion those costs to the appropriate cost centers by organ type. These costs include the costs associated with an organ intended for transplant, but subsequently determined unsuitable for transplant and furnished for research.

(3) An organ intended for transplant but subsequently determined unsuitable for transplant and instead furnished for research is not counted as a Medicare usable organ or as a total usable organ in the ratio used to calculate Medicare's share of organ acquisition costs.

(4) Subject to paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section, OPOs and THs must reduce total organ acquisition costs, when the organ is intended for transplant but determined unsuitable for transplant and instead furnished for research, as follows:

(i) By deducting the costs to furnish organs for research from total organ acquisition costs; or

(ii) By offsetting the total organ acquisition costs by the revenue received for these organs.

(iii) In no event may the reduction in total organ acquisition costs as a result of application of paragraph (a)(4) of this section exceed the costs incurred to furnish organs for research.

(5) When the costs to furnish organs for research are not included in total organ acquisition costs but are included in a non-reimbursable cost center, no offset is necessary.
