
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.404 Standard acquisition charge.
####### Kidney SAC.

(2)(i) General. An IOPO's contractor establishes the kidney SAC based on an estimate of,

initial year projected or subsequent years' actual, reasonable and necessary costs the IOPO expects to incur to procure deceased donor kidneys during the IOPO's cost reporting period, divided by the, initial year projected or subsequent years' actual, number of usable deceased donor kidneys the IOPO expects to procure.

(ii) Initial year. The contractor develops the IOPO's initial kidney SAC based on the

IOPO's budget information.

(iii) Subsequent years. The contractor computes the kidney SAC for subsequent years using the IOPO's costs related to kidney acquisition that were incurred in the prior cost reporting period and dividing those costs by the number of usable deceased donor kidneys procured during that cost reporting period. The kidney SAC amount is the interim payment made by the TH or other OPO to the IOPO, as set forth in ยง 413.420(d)(1).

(iv) SAC adjustments. The IOPO's contractor may adjust the kidney SAC during the year, if necessary, for cost changes.

(v) The IOPO cannot use or change its kidney SAC without the contractor's approval.

(3) Billing SACs for organs generally. When an IOPO obtains an organ from another IOPO, the receiving IOPO is responsible for paying the procuring IOPO's SAC. The receiving IOPO uses its SAC for each organ type and not the procuring IOPO's SAC when billing the TH receiving the organ.
