
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.416 Organ acquisition charges for kidney-paired exchanges.
####### Procurement and transport of a kidney.

(c)When a donor's TH procures and furnishes a kidney to a recipient's TH all of the following are applicable:

(1) All costs must be reasonable and necessary.

(2)(i) The donor's TH bills the recipient's TH.

(ii) The donor's TH bills its charges reduced to cost, or bills its applicable kidney SAC for the reasonable costs associated with procuring, packaging, and transporting the kidney.

(3) The donor's TH records the costs described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section on its Medicare cost report as kidney acquisition costs and offsets any payments received from the recipient's TH against its kidney acquisition costs.

(4) The recipient's TH records as part of its kidney acquisition costs -

(i) The amounts billed by the donor's TH for the reasonable costs associated with procuring, packaging, and transporting the organ; and

(ii) Any additional testing performed and billed by the donor's TH.

(d) Donor's procurement occurs at recipient TH. In a kidney-paired exchange-

(1) When a donor's TH does not procure a kidney, but the donor travels to the recipient's TH for the organ procurement, the reasonable costs associated with the organ procurement are included on the Medicare cost report of the recipient's TH; and

(2) The travel expenses of the living donor are not allowable Medicare costs.
