
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart L - Payment of Organ Acquisition Costs for Transplant Hospitals. Organ Procurement Organizations, and Histocompatibility Laboratories
###### ยง 413.420 Payment to independent organ procurement organizations and histocompatibility laboratories for kidney acquisition costs.
####### Agreements with IOPOs and laboratories.

(c)(1) Any IOPO or histocompatibility laboratory that wishes to have the cost of its pre-transplant services reimbursed under the Medicare program must file an agreement with CMS under which the IOPO or laboratory agrees to do all of the following:

(i) To file a cost report in accordance with ยง 413.24(f) within 5 months following the close of the period covered by the report.

(ii) To permit CMS to designate a contractor to determine the interim reimbursement rate, payable by the THs for services provided by the IOPO or laboratory, and to determine Medicare's reasonable cost based upon the cost report filed by the IOPO or laboratory.

(iii) To provide such budget or cost projection information as may be required to establish an initial interim reimbursement rate.

(iv) To pay to CMS amounts that have been paid by CMS to THs and that are determined to be in excess of the reasonable cost of the services provided by the IOPO or laboratory.

(v) Not to charge any individual for items or services for which that individual is entitled to have payment made under section 1881 of the Act.

(2) The initial cost report due from an IOPO or laboratory is for its first fiscal year during any portion of which it had an agreement with the Secretary under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The initial cost report covers only the period covered by the agreement.

(d) Interim reimbursement. (1) THs with approved kidney transplant programs pay the IOPO or histocompatibility laboratory for their pre-transplantation services on the basis of an interim rate established by the contractor for that IOPO or laboratory.

(2) The interim rate is a kidney SAC or contractor established rates, based on costs associated with procuring a kidney for transplantation, incurred by an IOPO or laboratory respectively, during its previous fiscal year. If there is not adequate cost data to determine the initial interim rate, the contractor determines it according to the IOPO's or laboratory's estimate of its projected costs for the fiscal year.

(3) Payments made by THs on the basis of interim rates are reconciled directly with the IOPO or laboratory after the close of its fiscal year, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) Information on the interim rate for all IOPOs and histocompatibility laboratories must be disseminated to all THs and contractors.
