
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.22 Relative value units (RVUs).
####### Practice expense RVUs.

(b)(1) Practice expense RVUs are computed for each service or class of service by applying average historical practice cost percentages to the estimated average allowed charge during the 1991 base period.

(2) The average practice expense percentage for a service or class of services is computed as follows:

(i) Multiply the average practice expense percentage for each specialty by the proportion of a particular service or class of service performed by that specialty.

(ii) Add the products for all specialties.

(3) For services furnished beginning calendar year (CY) 1994, for which 1994 practice expense RVUs exceed 1994 work RVUs and that are performed in office settings less than 75 percent of the time, the 1994, 1995, and 1996 practice expense RVUs are reduced by 25 percent of the amount by which they exceed the number of 1994 work RVUs. Practice expense RVUs are not reduced to less than 128 percent of 1994 work RVUs.

(4) For services furnished beginning January 1, 1998, practice expense RVUs for certain services are reduced to 110 percent of the work RVUs for those services. The following two categories of services are excluded from this limitation:

(i) The service is provided more than 75 percent of the time in an office setting; or

(ii) The service is one described in section 1848(c)(2)(G)(v) of the Act, codified at 42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(c)(2)(G). Section 1848(c)(2)(G)(v) of the Act refers to the 1998 proposed resource-based practice expense RVUs (as specified in the June 18, 1997 physician fee schedule proposed rule (62 FR 33158)) for the specific site, either in-office or out-of-office, increased from its 1997 practice expense RVUs.)

(5) For services furnished in 2002 and subsequent years, the practice expense RVUs are based entirely on relative practice expense resources.

(i) Usually there are two levels of practice expense RVUs that correspond to each code.
