
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.39 Special rules for payment of care plan oversight.
####### Exception.

(b)Separate payment is made under the following conditions for physician care plan oversight services furnished to beneficiaries who receive HHA and hospice services that are covered by Medicare:

(1) The care plan oversight services require recurrent physician supervision of therapy involving 30 or more minutes of the physician's time per month.

(2) Payment is made to only one physician per patient for services furnished during a calendar month period. The physician must have furnished a service requiring a face-to-face encounter with the patient at least once during the 6-month period before the month for which care plan oversight payment is first billed. The physician may not have a significant ownership interest in, or financial or contractual relationship with, the HHA in accordance with ยง 424.22(d) of this chapter. The physician may not be the medical director or employee of the hospice and may not furnish services under an arrangement with the hospice.

(3) If a physician furnishes care plan oversight services during a postoperative period, payment for care plan oversight services is made if the services are documented in the patient's medical record as unrelated to the surgery.
