
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 21 - COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
##### Subpart C - Involuntary Child and Spousal Support Allotments
###### ยง 21.73 Policy.

(a) It is the policy of the Department of Health and Human Services to withhold allotments from pay and allowances of commissioned officers on active duty in the Service to make involuntary allotments from pay and allowances as payment of child, or child and spousal, support payments when the officer has failed to make periodic payments under a support order in a total amount equal to the support payable for two months or longer. Failure to make such payments shall be established by notice from an authorized person to the designated official of the Department. Such notice shall specify the name and address of the payee to whom the allotment is payable. The amount of the allotment shall be the amount necessary to comply with the support order including amounts for arrearages as well as for current support. However the amount of the allotment, when added to any other amounts withheld from the officer's pay pursuant to a support order, shall not exceed the limits for involuntary allotments from pay as prescribed in section 303 (b) and (c) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1673. An allotment under this Subpart shall be adjusted or discontinued upon notice from any authorized person.

(b) Notwithstanding the above, no action shall be taken to withhold an allotment from the pay and allowances of any officer until such officer has had an opportunity to consult with a legal officer of the Department to discuss the legal and other factors involved with respect to the officer's support obligation and his or her failure to make payments. The Department shall exercise continuing good faith efforts to arrange such a consultation, but must begin to withhold allotments on the first end-of-month payday after 30 days have elapsed since notice of an opportunity to consult was sent to the officer.
