
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.46 Additional rules for payment of anesthesia services.
####### Anesthesia services medically directed by a physician.

(d)(1) CMS considers an anesthesia service to be medically directed by a physician if:

(i) The physician performs the activities described in ยง 415.110 of this chapter.

(ii) The physician directs qualified individuals involved in two, three, or four concurrent cases.

(iii) Medical direction can occur for a single case furnished on or after January 1, 1998 if the physician performs the activities described in ยง 415.110 of this chapter and medically directs a single CRNA or AA.

(2) The rules for medical direction differ for certain time periods depending on the nature of the qualified individual who is directed by the physician.

(i) If more than two procedures are directed on or after January 1, 1994, the qualified individuals could be AAs, CRNAs, interns, or residents. The medical direction rules apply to student nurse anesthetists only if the physician directs two concurrent cases, each of which involves a student nurse anesthetist or the physician directs one case involving a student nurse anesthetist and the other involving a CRNA, AA, intern, or resident.

(ii) For services furnished on or after January 1, 2010, the medical direction rules do not apply to a single anesthesia resident case that is concurrent to another case which is paid under the medical direction payment rules as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) Payment for medical direction is based on a specific percentage of the payment allowance recognized for the anesthesia service personally performed by a physician alone. The following percentages apply for the years specified:

(i) CY 1994-60 percent of the payment allowance for personally performed procedures.

(ii) CY 1995-57.5 percent of the payment allowance for personally performed services.

(iii) CY 1996-55 percent of the payment allowance for personally performed services.

(iv) CY 1997-52.5 percent of the payment allowance for personally performed services.

(v) CY 1998 and thereafter-50 percent of the payment allowance for personally performed services.
