
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.46 Additional rules for payment of anesthesia services.
####### Determinations of payment amount-Basic rule.

(b)For anesthesia services performed, medically directed, or medically supervised by a physician, CMS pays the lesser of the actual charge or the anesthesia fee schedule amount.

(1) The carrier bases the fee schedule amount for an anesthesia service on the product of the sum of allowable base and time units and an anesthesia-specific CF. The carrier calculates the time units from the anesthesia time reported by the anesthesia practitioner for the anesthesia procedure. The physician who fulfills the conditions for medical direction in ยง 415.110 (Conditions for payment: Anesthesiology services) reports the same anesthesia time as the medically-directed CRNA.

(2) CMS furnishes the carrier with the base units for each anesthesia procedure code. The base units are derived from the 1988 American Society of Anesthesiologists' Relative Value Guide except that the number of base units recognized for anesthesia services furnished during cataract or iridectomy surgery is four units.

(3) Modifier units are not allowed. Modifier units include additional units charged by a physician or a CRNA for patient health status, risk, age, or unusual circumstances.
