
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### § 414.46 Additional rules for payment of anesthesia services.
####### Physician personally performs the anesthesia procedure.

(c)(1) CMS considers an anesthesia service to be personally performed under any of the following circumstances:

(i) The physician performs the entire anesthesia service alone.

(ii) The physician establishes an attending physician relationship in one or two concurrent cases involving an intern or resident and the service was furnished before January 1, 1994.

(iii) The physician establishes an attending physician relationship in one case involving an intern or resident and the service was furnished on or after January 1, 1994 but prior to January 1, 1996. For services on or after January 1, 1996, the physician must be the teaching physician as defined in §§ 415.170 through 415.184 of this chapter.

(iv) The physician and the CRNA or AA are involved in a single case and the services of each are found to be medically necessary.

(v) The physician is continuously involved in a single case involving a student nurse anesthetist.

(vi) The physician is continuously involved in a single case involving a CRNA or AA and the service was furnished prior to January 1, 1998.

(2) CMS determines the fee schedule amount for an anesthesia service personally performed by a physician on the basis of an anesthesia-specific fee schedule CF and unreduced base units and anesthesia time units. One anesthesia time unit is equivalent to 15 minutes of anesthesia time, and fractions of a 15-minute period are recognized as fractions of an anesthesia time unit.
