
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.52 Payment for physician assistants' services.

Allowed amounts for the services of a physician assistant furnished beginning January 1, 1992 and ending December 31, 1997, may not exceed the limits specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. Allowed amounts for the services of a physician assistant furnished beginning January 1, 1998, may not exceed the limits specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(a) For assistant-at-surgery services, 65 percent of the amount that would be allowed under the physician fee schedule if the assistant-at-surgery service was furnished by a physician.

(b) For services (other than assistant-at-surgery services) furnished in a hospital, 75 percent of the physician fee schedule amount for the service.

(c) For all other services, 85 percent of the physician fee schedule amount for the service.

(d) For services (other than assistant-at-surgery services) furnished beginning January 1, 1998, 85 percent of the physician fee schedule amount for the service. For assistant-at-surgery services, 85 percent of the physician fee schedule amount that would be allowed under the physician fee schedule if the assistant-at-surgery service were furnished by a physician.
