
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### § 414.63 Payment for outpatient diabetes self-management training.

(a) Payment under the physician fee schedule. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, payment for outpatient diabetes self-management training is made under the physician fee schedule in accordance with §§ 414.1 through 414.48.

(b) To whom payment may be made. Payment may be made to an entity approved by CMS to furnish outpatient diabetes self-management training in accordance with part 410, subpart H of this chapter.

(c) Limitation on payment. Payment may be made for training sessions actually attended by the beneficiary and documented on attendance sheets.

(d) Payments made to those not paid under the physician fee schedule. Payments may be made to other entities not routinely paid under the physician fee schedule, such as hospital outpatient departments, ESRD facilities, and DME suppliers. The payment equals the amounts paid under the physician fee schedule.

(e) Other conditions for fee-for-service payment. The beneficiary must meet the following conditions:

(1) Has not previously received initial training for which Medicare payment was made under this benefit.

(2) Is not receiving services as an inpatient in a hospital, SNF, hospice, or nursing home.

(3) Is not receiving services as an outpatient in an RHC or FQHC.
