
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.68 Imaging accreditation.
####### Ongoing responsibilities of a CMS-approved accreditation organization.

(g)An accreditation organization approved by CMS must carry out the following activities on an ongoing basis:

(1) Provide CMS with all of the following in written format (either electronic or hard copy):

(i) Copies of all accreditation surveys, together with any survey-related information that CMS may require (including corrective action plans and summaries of findings with respect to unmet CMS requirements).

(ii) Notice of all accreditation decisions.

(iii) Notice of all complaints related to suppliers.

(iv) Information about all accredited suppliers against which the accreditation organization has taken remedial or adverse action, including revocation, withdrawal, or revision of the supplier's accreditation.

(v) Notice of any proposed changes in its accreditation standards or requirements or survey process. If the organization implements the changes before or without CMS' approval, CMS may withdraw its approval of the accreditation organization.

(2) Within 30 calendar days after a change in CMS requirements, the accreditation organization must submit an acknowledgment of receipt of CMS' notification to CMS.

(3) The accreditation organization must permit its surveyors to serve as witnesses if CMS takes an adverse action based on accreditation findings.

(4) Within 2 business days of identifying a deficiency of an accredited supplier that poses immediate jeopardy to a beneficiary or to the general public, the accreditation organization must provide CMS with written notice of the deficiency and any adverse action implemented by the accreditation organization.

(5) Within 10 calendar days after CMS' notice to a CMS-approved accreditation organization that CMS intends to withdraw approval of the accreditation organization, the accreditation organization must provide written notice of the withdrawal to all of the organization's accredited suppliers.

(6) The organization must provide, on an annual basis, summary data specified by CMS that relate to the past year's accreditation activities and trends.
