
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.68 Imaging accreditation.
####### Application and reapplication procedures for accreditation organizations.

(c)An independent accreditation organization applying for approval or reapproval of authority to survey suppliers for purposes of accrediting suppliers furnishing the TC of advanced diagnostic imaging services is required to furnish CMS with all of the following:

(1) A detailed description of how the organization's accreditation criteria satisfy the statutory standards authorized by section 1834(e)(3) of the Act, specifically-

(i) Qualifications of medical personnel who are not physicians and who furnish the TC of advanced diagnostic imaging services;

(ii) Qualifications and responsibilities of medical directors and supervising physicians (who may be the same person), such as their training in advanced diagnostic imaging services in a residency program, expertise obtained through experience, or continuing medical education courses;

(iii) Procedures to ensure the reliability, clarity, and accuracy of the technical quality of diagnostic images produced by the supplier, including a thorough evaluation of equipment performance and safety;

(iv) Procedures to ensure the safety of persons who furnish the TC of advanced diagnostic imaging services and individuals to whom such services are furnished;

(v) Procedures to assist the beneficiary in obtaining the beneficiary's imaging records on request; and

(vi) Procedures to notify the accreditation organization of any changes to the modalities subsequent to the organization's accreditation decision.

(2) An agreement to conform accreditation requirements to any changes in Medicare statutory requirements authorized by section 1834(e) of the Act. The accreditation organization must maintain or adopt standards that are equal to, or more stringent than, those of Medicare.

(3) Information that demonstrates the accreditation organization's knowledge and experience in the advanced diagnostic imaging arena.

(4) The organization's proposed fees for accreditation for each modality in which the organization intends to offer accreditation, including any plans for reducing the burden and cost of accreditation to small and rural suppliers.

(5) Any specific documentation requirements and attestations requested by CMS as a condition of designation under this part.

(6) A detailed description of the organization's survey process, including the following:

(i) Type and frequency of the surveys performed.

(ii) The ability of the organization to conduct timely reviews of accreditation applications, to include the organizations national capacity.

(iii) Description of the organization's audit procedures, including random site visits, site audits, or other strategies for ensuring suppliers maintain compliance for the duration of accreditation.

(iv) Procedures for performing unannounced site surveys.

(v) Copies of the organization's survey forms.

(vi) A description of the accreditation survey review process and the accreditation status decision-making process, including the process for addressing deficiencies identified with the accreditation requirements, and the procedures used to monitor the correction of deficiencies found during an accreditation survey.

(vii) Procedures for coordinating surveys with another accrediting organization if the organization does not accredit all products the supplier provides.

(viii) Detailed information about the individuals who perform evaluations for the accreditation organization, including all of the following information:

(A) The number of professional and technical staff that are available for surveys.

(B) The education, employment, and experience requirements surveyors must meet.

(C) The content and length of the orientation program.

(ix) The frequency and types of in-service training provided to survey personnel.

(x) The evaluation systems used to monitor the performance of individual surveyors and survey teams.

(xi) The policies and procedures regarding an individual's participation in the survey or accreditation decision process of any organization with which the individual is professionally or financially affiliated.

(xii) The policies and procedures used when an organization has a dispute regarding survey findings or an adverse decision.

(7) Detailed information about the size and composition of survey teams for each category of advanced medical imaging service supplier accredited.

(8) A description of the organization's data management and analysis system for its surveys and accreditation decisions, including the kinds of reports, tables, and other displays generated by that system.

(9) The organization's procedures for responding to and for the investigation of complaints against accredited facilities, including policies and procedures regarding coordination of these activities with appropriate licensing bodies and CMS.

(10) The organization's policies and procedures for the withholding or removal of accreditation status for facilities that fail to meet the accreditation organization's standards or requirements, and other actions taken by the organization in response to noncompliance with its standards and requirements. These policies and procedures must include notifying CMS of Medicare facilities that fail to meet the requirements of the accrediting organization.

(11) A list of all currently accredited suppliers, the type and category of accreditation currently held by each supplier, and the expiration date of each supplier's current accreditation.

(12) A written presentation that demonstrates the organization's ability to furnish CMS with electronic data in ASCII comparable code.

(13) A resource analysis that demonstrates that the organization's staffing, funding, and other resources are adequate to perform the required surveys and related activities.

(14) A statement acknowledging that, as a condition for approval of designation, the organization agrees to carry out the following activities:

(i) Prioritize surveys for those suppliers needing to be accredited by January 1, 2012.

(ii) Notify CMS, in writing, of any Medicare supplier that had its accreditation revoked, withdrawn, revised, or any other remedial or adverse action taken against it by the accreditation organization within 30 calendar days of any such action taken.

(iii) Notify all accredited suppliers within 10 calendar days of the organization's removal from the list of designated accreditation organizations.

(iv) Notify CMS, in writing, at least 30 calendar days in advance of the effective date of any significant proposed changes in its accreditation requirements.

(v) Permit its surveyors to serve as witnesses if CMS takes an adverse action based on accreditation findings.

(vi) Notify CMS, in writing (electronically or hard copy), within 2 business days of a deficiency identified in any accreditation supplier from any source where the deficiency poses an immediate jeopardy to the supplier's beneficiaries or a hazard to the general public.

(vii) Provide, on an annual basis, summary data specified by CMS that relates to the past year's accreditations and trends.

(viii) Attest that the organization will not perform any accreditation surveys of Medicare-participating suppliers with which it has a financial relationship in which it has an interest.

(ix) Conform accreditation requirements to changes in Medicare requirements.

(x) If CMS withdraws an accreditation organization's approved status, work collaboratively with CMS to direct suppliers to the remaining accreditation organizations within a reasonable period of time.
