
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.84 Payment for MDPP services.
####### Performance Goal 5: Attends two ongoing maintenance sessions and maintains the required minimum weight loss during an ongoing maintenance session interval.

(5)For an MDPP beneficiary who attends his or her first core session on or before December 31, 2021, CMS makes a performance payment to an MDPP supplier if an MDPP beneficiary attends two ongoing maintenance sessions during an ongoing maintenance session interval, achieves attendance at that second ongoing maintenance session upon attendance at an ongoing maintenance session furnished by that supplier, and achieves or maintains the required minimum weight loss as measured in-person during an ongoing maintenance session furnished during the applicable ongoing maintenance session interval. CMS makes this performance payment to an MDPP supplier only once per MDPP beneficiary per ongoing maintenance session interval. The amount of this performance payment is determined as follows:

(i) For a second ongoing maintenance session furnished in interval 1 (months 13-15 of the MDPP services period), January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, the amount is $52.

(ii) For a second ongoing maintenance session furnished in interval 2 (months 16-18 of the MDPP services period), January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, the amount is $52.

(iii) For a second ongoing maintenance session furnished in interval 3 (months 19-21 of the MDPP services period), January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, the amount is $53.

(iv) For a second ongoing maintenance session furnished in interval 4 (months 22-24 of the MDPP services period), January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022 the amount is $53.

(v) For a second ongoing maintenance session furnished during a subsequent year. The performance payment amount specified in this paragraph, adjusted as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
