
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.84 Payment for MDPP services.
####### Bridge payment

(c). CMS makes a bridge payment to an MDPP supplier only for a core session or core maintenance session furnished to an MDPP beneficiary who has previously received MDPP services from a different MDPP supplier. An MDPP supplier that has previously been paid either a bridge payment or a performance payment for an MDPP beneficiary is not eligible to be paid a bridge payment for that beneficiary. A bridge payment is made only on an assignment-related basis in accordance with ยง 424.55 of this subchapter, and MDPP suppliers must accept the Medicare allowed charge as payment in full and may not bill or collect from the beneficiary any amount. CMS will make a bridge payment only to an MDPP supplier that complies with all applicable enrollment and program requirements, and only for MDPP services furnished by an eligible coach, on or after his or her coach eligibility start date and, if applicable, before his or her coach eligibility end date. As a condition of payment, the MDPP supplier must report the NPI of the coach who furnished the session on the claim for the MDPP session. The amount of the bridge payment is determined as follows:

(1) For core session or core maintenance session, as applicable, furnished January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, the amount is $35.

(2) For core session and core maintenance session, as applicable, furnished during a calendar year subsequent to CY 2022. The bridge payment amount specified in this paragraph, adjusted as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
