
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.84 Payment for MDPP services.
####### Performance Goal 4: Attends two core maintenance sessions during a core maintenance session interval.

(4)CMS makes a performance payment to an MDPP supplier if an MDPP beneficiary attends two core maintenance sessions in a core maintenance session interval and achieves attendance at the second core maintenance session upon attendance at a core maintenance session furnished by that supplier. CMS makes this performance payment to an MDPP supplier only once per MDPP beneficiary per core maintenance session interval. The amount of this performance payment is determined as follows:

(i) If the beneficiary also achieves or maintains the required minimum weight loss as measured in-person during a core maintenance session furnished during the applicable core maintenance session interval:

(A) For a second core maintenance session January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022 the amount is $93.

(B) For a second core maintenance session furnished during a calendar year subsequent to CY 2022. The performance payment amount specified in this paragraph for the prior year, adjusted as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) If the beneficiary does not achieve or maintain the required minimum weight loss as measured in-person during a core maintenance session furnished during the applicable core maintenance session interval:

(A) For a second core maintenance session January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022 the amount is $70.

(B) For a second core maintenance session furnished during a calendar year subsequent to CY 2022. The performance payment amount specified in this paragraph for the prior year, adjusted as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
