
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.90 Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS).
####### Additional incentive payment.

(d)Through 2014, if an eligible professional meets the requirements described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the applicable percent for such year, as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section, must be increased by 0.5 percentage points.

(1) In order to qualify for the additional incentive payment described in paragraph (d) of this section, an eligible professional must meet all of the following requirements:

(i) Satisfactorily submits data on quality measures, or, for 2014, in lieu of satisfactory reporting, satisfactorily participates in a qualified clinical data registry for purposes of this section for the applicable incentive year.

(ii) Have such data submitted on their behalf through a Maintenance of Certification program that meets:

(A) The criteria for a registry (as specified by CMS); or

(B) An alternative form and manner determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(iii) The eligible professional, more frequently than is required to qualify for or maintain board certification status-

(A) Participates in a maintenance of certification program for a year; and

(B) Successfully completes a qualified maintenance of certification program practice assessment for such year.

(2) In order for an eligible professional to receive the additional incentive payment, a Maintenance of Certification Program must submit to the Secretary, on behalf of the eligible professional, information-

(i) In a form and manner specified by the Secretary, that the eligible professional has successfully met the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, which may be in the form of a structural measure.

(ii) If requested by the Secretary, on the survey of patient experience with care.

(iii) As the Secretary may require, on the methods, measures, and data used under the Maintenance of Certification Program and the qualified Maintenance of Certification Program practice assessment.
