
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.90 Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS).
####### Informal review.

(m)Eligible professionals or group practices may seek an informal review of the determination that an eligible professional or group practices did not satisfactorily submit data on quality measures under the PQRS, or, for individual eligible professionals, in lieu of satisfactory reporting, did not satisfactorily participate in a qualified clinical data registry.

(1) To request an informal review for reporting periods that occur prior to 2014, an eligible professional or group practice must submit a request to CMS within 90 days of the release of the feedback reports. To request an informal review for reporting periods that occur in 2014 and subsequent years, an eligible professional or group practice must submit a request to CMS within 60 days of the release of the feedback reports. The request must be submitted in writing and summarize the concern(s) and reasons for requesting an informal review and may also include information to assist in the review.

(2) CMS will provide a written response within 90 days of the receipt of the original request.

(i) All decisions based on the informal review will be final.

(ii) There will be no further review or appeal.

(3) If, during the informal review process, CMS finds errors in data that was submitted by a third-party vendor on behalf of an eligible professional or group practice using either the qualified registry, EHR data submission vendor, or QCDR reporting mechanisms, CMS may allow for the resubmission of data to correct these errors.

(i) CMS will not allow resubmission of data submitted via claims, direct EHR, and the GPRO web interface reporting mechanisms.

(ii) CMS will only allow resubmission of data that was already previously submitted to CMS.

(iii) CMS will only accept data that was previously submitted for the reporting periods for which the corresponding informal review period applies.
