
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.90 Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS).
####### Requirements for group practices.

(l)Under the PQRS, a group practice must meet all of the following requirements:

(1) Meet the participation requirements specified by CMS for the PQRS group practice reporting option.

(2) Report measures in the form and manner specified by CMS.

(3) Meet other requirements for satisfactory reporting specified by CMS.

(4) Meet participation requirements.

(i) If an eligible professional, as identified by an individual NPI, has reassigned his or her Medicare billing rights to a group practice (as identified by the TIN) selected to participate in the PQRS group practice reporting option for a program year, then for that program year the eligible professional must participate in the PQRS via the group practice reporting option.

(ii) If, for the program year, the eligible professional participates in the PQRS as part of a group practice (as identified by the TIN) that is not selected to participate in the PQRS group practice reporting option for that program year, then the eligible professional may individually participate and qualify for a PQRS incentive by meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (g) of this section under that TIN.
