
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 23 - NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS
##### Subpart A - Assignment of National Health Service Corps Personnel
###### ยง 23.8 What operational requirements apply to an entity to which National Health Service Corps personnel are assigned?
############# ยง 23.9 What must an entity to which National Health Service Corps personnel are assigned (, a National Health Service Corps site) charge for the provision of health services by assigned personnel?

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, individuals receiving services from assigned National Health Service Corps personnel must be charged on a fee-for-service or other basis at a rate which is computed to permit recovery of the value of the services and is approved by the Secretary.

(b) In determining whether to approve fees to be charged for health services, the Secretary will consider: The costs to the National Health Service Corps of providing the health services; the costs to the health manpower shortage area for providing the services; and the charges for similar services by other practitioners or facilities in or nearby the health manpower shortage area. However, if assigned National Health Service Corps personnel are providing services within the framework of an established health services delivery system, the Secretary may approve the fees charged under that system without regard to the foregoing factors.

(c)(1) No charge or a nominal charge will be made for health services provided by assigned National Health Service Corps personnel to individuals within the health manpower shortage area with annual incomes at or below the poverty guidelines updated periodically in theby the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2). However, no individual will be denied health services based upon inability to pay for the services. Any individual who has an annual income above the poverty guidelines but whose income does not exceed 200 percent of the poverty guidelines, will receive health services at a nominal charge. However, charges will be made for services to the extent that payment will be made by a third party which is authorized or under legal obligation to pay the charges.

(2) The provisions of this paragraph also apply with respect to services provided by an individual who is fulfilling an NHSC scholarship obligation under section 753 or who received a special grant under section 755.
