
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.92 Electronic Prescribing Incentive Program.
####### Informal review.

(g)Eligible professionals (or in the case of reporting under paragraph (e) of this section, group practices) may seek an informal review of the determination that an eligible professional (or in the case of reporting under paragraph (e) of this section, group practices) did not meet the requirements for the 2012 and 2013 incentives or the 2013 and 2014 payment adjustments.

(1) To request an informal review for the 2012 and 2013 incentives, an eligible professional or group practice must submit a request to CMS via email within 90 days of the release of the feedback reports. The request must be submitted in writing and summarize the concern(s) and reasons for requesting an informal review and may also include information to assist in the review.

(2) To request an informal review for the 2013 and 2014 payment adjustments, an eligible professional or group practices must submit a request to CMS via email by February 28 of the year in which the eligible professional is receiving the applicable payment adjustment. The request must be submitted in writing and summarize the concern(s) and reasons for requesting an informal review and may also include information to assist in the review.

(3) CMS will provide a written response of CMS' determination.

(i) All decisions based on the informal review will be final.

(ii) There will be no further review or appeal.
