
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.94 Appropriate use criteria for advanced diagnostic imaging services.
####### Requirements for qualified PLEs developing or modifying AUC

(1). A PLE must perform all of the following when developing or modifying AUC:

(i) Utilize an evidentiary review process when developing or modifying AUC that includes:

(A) A systematic literature review of the clinical topic and relevant imaging studies; and

(B) An assessment of the evidence using a formal, published and widely recognized methodology for grading evidence. Consideration of relevant published consensus statements by professional medical specialty societies must be part of the evidence assessment.

(ii) Utilize at least one multidisciplinary team with autonomous governance, decision-making and accountability for developing or modifying AUC. At a minimum the team must be comprised of seven members including at least one practicing physician with expertise in the clinical topic related to the appropriate use criterion being developed or modified, at least one practicing physician with expertise in the imaging studies related to the appropriate use criterion, at least one primary care physician or practitioner as described in sections 1833(u)(6), 1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(I), and 1833(x)(2)(A)(i)(II) of the Act, at least one expert in statistical analysis and at least one expert in clinical trial design. A given team member may be the team's expert in more than one domain.

(iii) Utilize a publicly transparent process for identifying potential conflicts of interest and for resolving conflicts of interest of members on the multidisciplinary team, the PLE and any other party participating in AUC development or modification, to include recusal or exclusion of individuals as appropriate. The PLE must document the following information and make it available in timely fashion to a public request, for a period of not less than 5 years after the most recent published update of the relevant AUC:

(A) Direct or indirect financial relationships that exist between individuals or the spouse or minor child of individuals who have substantively participated in the development of AUC and companies or organizations including the PLE and any other party participating in AUC development or modification that may financially benefit from the AUC. These financial relationships may include, for example, compensation arrangements such as salary, grant, speaking or consulting fees, contract, or collaboration agreements.

(B) Ownership or investment interests between individuals or the spouse or minor child of individuals who have substantively participated in the development of AUC and companies or organizations including the PLE or any other party participating in AUC development or modification that may financially benefit from the AUC.

(iv) Publish each individual criterion on the PLE's Web site and include an identifying title, authors (at a minimum, all members of the multidisciplinary AUC development team must be listed as authors), and key references used to establish the evidence.

(v) Identify each appropriate use criterion or AUC subset that are relevant to a priority clinical area with a statement on the PLE's Web site. To be identified as being relevant to a priority clinical area, the criterion or AUC subset must reasonably address the entire clinical scope of the corresponding priority clinical area.

(vi) Identify key points in an individual criterion as evidence-based or consensus-based, and grade such key points in terms of strength of evidence using a formal, published and widely recognized methodology.

(vii) Utilize a transparent process for the timely and continual updating of each criterion. Each criterion must be reviewed and, when appropriate, updated at least annually.

(viii) Publicly post the process for developing or modifying the AUC on the PLE's Web site.

(ix) Disclose parties external to the PLE when such parties have involvement in the AUC development process.
