
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Physicians and Other Practitioners
###### ยง 414.94 Appropriate use criteria for advanced diagnostic imaging services.
####### Requirements for qualification of CDSMs.

(1)A CDSM must meet all of the following requirements:

(i) Make available specified applicable AUC and its related supporting documentation.

(ii) Identify the appropriate use criterion consulted if the CDSM makes available more than one criterion relevant to a consultation for a patient's specific clinical scenario.

(iii) Make available, at a minimum, specified applicable AUC that reasonably address common and important clinical scenarios within all priority clinical areas identified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(iv) Be able to incorporate specified applicable AUC from more than one qualified PLE.

(v) Determines, for each consultation, the extent to which the applicable imaging service is consistent with specified applicable AUC.

(vi) Generate and provide a certification or documentation at the time of order that documents which qualified CDSM was consulted; the name and national provider identifier (NPI) of the ordering professional that consulted the CDSM; whether the service ordered would adhere to specified applicable AUC; whether the service ordered would not adhere to specified applicable AUC; or whether the specified applicable AUC consulted was not applicable to the service ordered. Certification or documentation must:

(A) Be generated each time an ordering professional consults a qualified CDSM.

(B) Include a unique consultation identifier generated by the CDSM.

(vii) Modifications to AUC within the CDSM must comply with the following timeline requirements:

(A) Make available updated AUC content within 12 months from the date the qualified PLE updates AUC.

(B) A protocol must be in place to expeditiously remove AUC determined by the qualified PLE to be potentially dangerous to patients and/or harmful if followed.

(C) Specified applicable AUC that reasonably address common and important clinical scenarios within any new priority clinical area must be made available for consultation through the qualified CDSM within 12 months of the priority clinical area being finalized by CMS.

(viii) Meet privacy and security standards under applicable provisions of law.

(ix) Provide to the ordering professional aggregate feedback regarding their consultations with specified applicable AUC in the form of an electronic report on at least an annual basis.

(x) Maintain electronic storage of clinical, administrative, and demographic information of each unique consultation for a minimum of 6 years.

(xi) Comply with modification(s) to any requirements under paragraph (g)(1) of this section made through rulemaking within 12 months of the effective date of the modification.

(xii) Notify ordering professionals upon de-qualification.
