
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.210 General payment rules.
####### Transition rules.

(9)The payment adjustments described above are phased in as follows:

(i) For applicable items and services furnished with dates of service from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 50 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section and 50 percent of the unadjusted fee schedule amount.

(ii) For items and services furnished with dates of service from January 1, 2017, through May 31, 2018, the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 100 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section.

(iii) For items and services furnished in rural areas and non-contiguous areas (Alaska, Hawaii, and U.S. territories) with dates of service from June 1, 2018 through December 31, 2020 or through the duration of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-5(g)(1)(B)), whichever is later, based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 50 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section and 50 percent of the unadjusted fee schedule amount.

(iv) For items and services furnished in areas other than rural or noncontiguous areas with dates of service from June 1, 2018 through March 5, 2020, based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 100 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section.

(v) For items and services furnished in areas other than rural or noncontiguous areas with dates of service from March 6, 2020, through the remainder of the duration of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-5(g)(1)(B)), based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 75 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section and 25 percent of the unadjusted fee schedule amount. For items and services furnished in areas other than rural or noncontiguous areas with dates of service from the expiration date of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-5(g)(1)(B)), through December 31, 2020, based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 100 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section.

(vi) For items and services furnished in all areas with dates of service on or after February 28, 2022, or the date immediately following the duration of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Act, whichever is later, based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to the adjusted payment amount established under paragraph (g) of this section.
