
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.210 General payment rules.
####### Payment for replacement of equipment.

(f)If an item of DME or a prosthetic or orthotic device paid for under this subpart has been in continuous use by the patient for the equipment's reasonable useful lifetime or if the carrier determines that the item is lost, stolen, or irreparably damaged, the patient may elect to obtain a new piece of equipment.

(1) The reasonable useful lifetime of DME or prosthetic and orthotic devices is determined through program instructions. In the absence of program instructions, carriers may determine the reasonable useful lifetime of equipment but in no case can it be less than 5 years. Computation is based on when the equipment is delivered to the beneficiary, not the age of the equipment.

(2) If the beneficiary elects to obtain replacement oxygen equipment, payment is made in accordance with ยง 414.226(a).

(3) If the beneficiary elects to obtain a replacement capped rental item, payment is made in accordance with ยง 414.229(a)(2) or (a)(3).

(4) For all other beneficiary-owned items, if the beneficiary elects to obtain replacement equipment, payment is made on a purchase basis.
