
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.220 Inexpensive or routinely purchased items.
####### Calculating the national limited payment amount.

(f)The national limited payment amount is computed as follows:

(1) The 1991 national limited payment amount is equal to:

(i) 100 percent of the local payment amount if the local payment amount is neither greater than the weighted average nor less than 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts;

(ii) The sum of 67 percent of the local payment amount plus 33 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts if the local payment amount exceeds the weighted average of all local payment amounts; or

(iii) The sum of 67 percent of the local payment amount plus 33 percent of 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts if the local payment amount is less than 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts.

(2) The 1992 national limited payment amount is equal to:

(i) 100 percent of the local payment amount if the local payment amount is neither greater than the weighted average nor less than 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts;

(ii) The sum of 33 percent of the local payment amount plus 67 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts if the local payment amount exceeds the weighted average; or

(iii) The sum of 33 percent of the local payment amount plus 67 percent of 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts if the local payment amount is less than 85 percent of the weighted average.

(3) For 1993, the national limited payment amount is equal to one of the following:

(i) 100 percent of the local payment amount if the local payment amount is neither greater than the weighted average nor less than 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts.

(ii) 100 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts if the local payment amount exceeds the weighted average of all local payment amounts.

(iii) 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts if the local payment amount is less than 85 percent of the weighted average of all local payment amounts.

(4) For 1994 and subsequent years, the national limited payment amount is equal to one of the following:

(i) If the local payment amount is not in excess of the median, nor less than 85 percent of the median, of all local payment amounts-100 percent of the local payment amount.

(ii) If the local payment amount exceeds the median-100 percent of the median of all local payment amounts.

(iii) If the local payment amount is less than 85 percent of the median-85 percent of the median of all local payment amounts.
