
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 24 - SENIOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH AND BIOMEDICAL PRODUCT ASSESSMENT SERVICE
##### ยง 24.5 Pay and compensation.

The Service is an ungraded system, with a single flexible pay range to include all members.

(a) Pay of SBRBPAS members is determined by the Secretary. A member's pay shall not be less than the minimum rate payable for GS-15 of the General Schedule and shall not exceed the amount of annual compensation (excluding expenses) specified in section 102 of title 3 of the U.S. Code. Although the full pay range will be implemented, pay at the higher end of the range will be used only as needed to recognize individual scientific value and expertise as is necessary to recruit and retain exceptionally well-qualified scientists and technical experts.

(b) The following factors will be used in setting pay for individual members:

(1) Impact of the individual on the field of biomedical research, clinical research evaluation, or biomedical product assessment;

(2) Recognition of the individual by his or her peers in the respective field;

(3) Originality of the individual's ideas or work products;

(4) Specific clinical or highly technical skills of the individuals which are of benefit to the agency and which are in addition to requirements of the basic scientific assignment;

(5) The individual's earnings and monetary benefits; and

(6) Other relevant factors.

(c) Annual adjustments to pay rates may be made effective on the first day of the first pay period on or after January 1 of each calendar year. The rate of such adjustments will be at the discretion of the Secretary, or designee, except that the minimum rate payable in the SBRBPAS will be increased to the amount of the minimum rate of the GS-15 of the General Schedule.

(d) Other pay adjustments may be made by the Secretary or designee on an individual basis.

(e) New appointees to the SBRBPAS, who are not covered by the Civil Service Retirement System, will be covered by the Federal Employees Retirement System.
