
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.226 Oxygen and oxygen equipment.
####### Volume adjustments.

(g)(1) The fee schedule amount for an item described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section is adjusted as follows:

(i) If the attending physician prescribes an oxygen flow rate exceeding four liters per minute, the fee schedule amount is increased by 50 percent, subject to the limit in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(ii) If the attending physician prescribes an oxygen flow rate of less than one liter per minute, the fee schedule amount is decreased by 50 percent.

(2) If portable oxygen equipment is used and the prescribed oxygen flow rate exceeds four liters per minute, the total fee schedule amount recognized for payment is limited to the higher of-

(i) The sum of the monthly fee schedule amount for the items described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(1)(iii) of this section; or

(ii) The adjusted fee schedule amount described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section.

(3) In establishing the volume adjustment for those beneficiaries whose physicians prescribe varying flow rates, the following rules apply:

(i) If the prescribed flow rate is different for stationary oxygen equipment than for portable oxygen equipment, the flow rate for the stationary equipment is used.

(ii) If the prescribed flow rate is different for the patient at rest than for the patient at exercise, the flow rate for the patient at rest is used.

(iii) If the prescribed flow rate is different for nighttime use and daytime use, the average of the two flow rates is used.
