
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.226 Oxygen and oxygen equipment.
####### Monthly fee schedule amount for items furnished from 2007 through 2018.

(c)(1) For 2007, national limited monthly payment rates are calculated and paid as the monthly fee schedule amounts for the following classes of items:

(i) Stationary oxygen equipment (including stationary concentrators) and oxygen contents (stationary and portable).

(ii) Portable equipment only (gaseous or liquid tanks).

(iii) Oxygen generating portable equipment only.

(iv) Stationary oxygen contents only.

(v) Portable oxygen contents only.

(2) The national limited monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section is equal to the weighted average fee schedule amount established under paragraph (b)(5) of this section reduced by $1.44.

(3) The national limited monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section is equal to the weighted average of the fee schedule amounts established under paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(4) The national limited monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section is equal to the national limited monthly payment rate established under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, multiplied by 24, and divided by 36.

(5) The national limited monthly payment rate for items described in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv) and (c)(1)(v) of this section is equal to 50 percent of the weighted average fee schedule amounts established under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for items described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(6) For 2008 through 2018, CMS makes an annual adjustment to the national limited monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section to ensure that such payment rates do not result in expenditures for any year that are more or less than the expenditures that would have been made if such classes had not been established.
