
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.226 Oxygen and oxygen equipment.
####### Monthly fee schedule amount for items furnished prior to 2007.

(b)(1) Monthly fee schedule amounts are separately calculated for the following items:

(i) Stationary oxygen equipment and oxygen contents (stationary and portable oxygen contents).

(ii) Portable oxygen equipment only.

(iii) Stationary and portable oxygen contents only.

(iv) Portable oxygen contents only.

(2) For 1989 and 1990, the monthly fee schedule amounts are the local payment amounts determined as follows:

(i) The carrier determines the base local average monthly payment rate equal to the total reasonable charges for the item for the 12-month period ending December 1986 divided by the total number of months for all beneficiaries receiving the item for the same period. In determining the local average monthly payment rate, the following limitations apply:

(A) Purchase charges for oxygen systems are not included as items classified under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) Purchase charges for portable equipment are not included as items classified under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The carrier determines the local monthly payment amount equal to 0.95 times the base local average monthly payment amount adjusted by the change in the CPI-U for the six-month period ending December 1987.

(3) For 1991 through 2006, the fee schedule amounts for items described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section are determined using the methodology contained in ยง 414.220(d), (e), and (f).

(4) For 1991 through 2006, the fee schedule amounts for items described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are determined using the methodology contained in ยง 414.220(d), (e), and (f).

(5) For 2005 and 2006, the fee schedule amounts determined under paragraph (b)(4) of this section are reduced using the methodology described in section 1834(a)(21)(A) of the Act.
