
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.226 Oxygen and oxygen equipment.
####### Monthly fee schedule amount for items furnished for years after 2018.

(e)(1) For 2019, national limited monthly payment rates are calculated and paid as the monthly fee schedule amounts for the following classes of items:

(i) Stationary oxygen equipment (including stationary concentrators) and oxygen contents (stationary and portable).

(ii) Portable gaseous equipment only.

(iii) Portable liquid equipment only.

(iv) Oxygen generating portable equipment only.

(v) Stationary oxygen contents only.

(vi) Portable oxygen contents only, except for portable liquid oxygen contents for prescribed flow rates greater than four liters per minute.

(vii) Portable liquid oxygen contents only for prescribed flow rates of more than 4 liters per minute.

(2) The monthly payment rate for items described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section are determined using the applicable methodologies contained in ยง 414.210(g).

(3) The monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section is determined initially based on the monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section and is subsequently adjusted using the applicable methodologies contained in ยง 414.210(g).

(4) The monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section is determined initially based on 150 percent of the monthly payment rate for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section and is subsequently adjusted using the applicable methodologies contained in ยง 414.210(g).

(5) Beginning in 2019, CMS makes an annual adjustment to the monthly payment rate for items described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(vii) of this section to ensure that such payment rates do not result in expenditures for any year that are more or less than the expenditures that would have been made if such classes had not been established.
