
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.226 Oxygen and oxygen equipment.
####### Application of monthly fee schedule amounts for items furnished for years after 2018.

(f)(1) The fee schedule amount for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section is paid when the beneficiary rents stationary oxygen equipment.

(2) Subject to the limitation set forth in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the fee schedule amount for items described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section is paid when the beneficiary rents portable oxygen equipment.

(3) The fee schedule amount for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section is paid when the beneficiary-

(i) Owns stationary oxygen equipment that requires delivery of gaseous or liquid oxygen contents; or

(ii) Rents stationary oxygen equipment that requires delivery of gaseous or liquid oxygen contents after the period of continuous use of 36 months described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) The fee schedule amount for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section is paid when the beneficiary-

(i) Owns portable oxygen equipment described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) of this section; or Code of Federal Regulations/Title 42-Public Health/Vol. 3/2017-10-0166

(ii) Rents portable oxygen equipment described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) of this section during the period of continuous use of 36 months described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and does not rent stationary oxygen equipment; or

(iii) Rents portable oxygen equipment described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) of this section after the period of continuous use of 36 months described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(5) The fee schedule amount for items described in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section is paid when the beneficiary has a prescribed flow rate of more than 4 liters per minute and-

(i) Owns portable liquid oxygen equipment described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section; or Code of Federal Regulations/Title 42-Public Health/Vol. 3/2017-10-0166

(ii) Rents portable liquid oxygen equipment described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section during the period of continuous use of 36 months described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and does not rent stationary oxygen equipment; or

(iii) Rents portable liquid oxygen equipment described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section after the period of continuous use of 36 months described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
