
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.229 Other durable medical equipment - capped rental items.
####### Purchase option.

(d)Suppliers must offer a purchase option to beneficiaries during the 10th continuous rental month and, for power-driven wheelchairs, the purchase option must also be made available at the time the equipment is initially furnished.

(1) Suppliers must offer beneficiaries the option of purchasing power-driven wheelchairs at the time the supplier first furnishes the item. On or after January 1, 2011, this option is available only for complex rehabilitative power-driven wheelchairs. Payment must be on a lump-sum fee schedule purchase basis if the beneficiary chooses the purchase option. The purchase fee is the amount established in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Suppliers must offer beneficiaries the option of converting capped rental items (including power-driven wheelchairs not purchased when initially furnished) to purchased equipment during their 10th continuous rental month. Beneficiaries have one month from the date the supplier makes the offer to accept the purchase option.

(i) If the beneficiary does not accept the purchase option, payment continues on a rental basis not to exceed a period of continuous use of longer than 15 months. After 15 months of rental payments have been paid, the supplier must continue to provide the item without charge, other than a charge for maintenance and servicing fees, until medical necessity ends or Medicare coverage ceases. A period of continuous use is determined under the provisions in ยง 414.230.

(ii) If the beneficiary accepts the purchase option, payment continues on a rental basis not to exceed a period of continuous use of longer than 13 months. On the first day after 13 continuous rental months during which payment is made, the supplier must transfer title to the equipment to the beneficiary.
