
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 24 - SENIOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH AND BIOMEDICAL PRODUCT ASSESSMENT SERVICE
##### ยง 24.8 Removal from the Service.

(a) A member of the Service may be subject to disciplinary action, including removal from the Service, for substandard performance of duty as a member of the service, for misconduct, for reasons of national security or for other reasons as determined by the Secretary.

(b) A member for whom disciplinary action is proposed is entitled to:

(1) Written notice of the proposed action and the basis therefor;

(2) A reasonable opportunity to answer the notice of proposed action both orally and in writing;

(3) The right to be represented by an attorney or other representative in making such answer; and

(4) A written decision on the proposal.

(c) The decision may be made by an official with delegated authority to take such action, but in no case may the official be at a level below the head of the Operating Division where the member is assigned.

(d) A member who is separated from the Service involuntarily and without cause and who, immediately prior to his appointment to the Service, was a career appointee in the civil service or the Senior Executive Service, may be appointed to a position in the competitive civil service at grade GS-15 of the General Schedule. Such an appointment may be made by the Secretary or his/her designee without regard to the provisions of title 5, U.S. Code regarding appointments in the civil service.

(e) A member who is separated from the Service involuntarily and without cause and who, immediately prior to appointment to the Service, was not a career appointee in the civil service or the Senior Executive Service may be appointed to a position in the excepted civil service at grade GS-15 of the General Schedule for a period not to exceed two years.

(f) There shall be no right to further review of the final decision on a disciplinary action. At his/her discretion, the Secretary may review an action taken under this section and may reduce, suspend, or overrule the action taken.

(g) A member of the Service may be removed from the Service for such other reasons as may be prescribed by the Secretary.
