
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.234 Prior authorization for items frequently subject to unnecessary utilization.
####### Condition of payment,Items requiring prior authorization.

(c)-(1)CMS publishes in theand posts on the CMS Prior Authorization Web site a list of items, the Required Prior Authorization List, that require prior authorization as a condition of payment.

(i) The Required Prior Authorization List specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is selected from the Master List. CMS may consider factors such as geographic location, item utilization or cost, system capabilities, emerging trends, vulnerabilities identified in official agency reports, or other analysis and may implement prior authorization nationally or locally.

(ii) CMS may elect to limit the prior authorization requirement to a particular region of the country if claims data analysis shows that unnecessary utilization of the selected item(s) is concentrated in a particular region. CMS may elect to exempt suppliers from prior authorization upon demonstration of compliance with Medicare coverage, coding, and payment rules through such prior authorization process.

(iii) The Required Prior Authorization List is effective no less than 60 days after publication and posting.
