
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payment for Durable Medical Equipment and Prosthetic and Orthotic Devices
###### ยง 414.234 Prior authorization for items frequently subject to unnecessary utilization.
####### Review of prior authorization requests.

(e)(1) After receipt of a prior authorization request, CMS or its contractor reviews the prior authorization request for compliance with applicable Medicare coverage, coding, and payment rules.

(2) If applicable Medicare coverage, coding, and payment rules are met, CMS or its contractor issues a provisional affirmation to the requester.

(3) If applicable Medicare coverage, coding, and payment rules are not met, CMS or its contractor issues a non-affirmation decision to the requester.

(4) If the requester receives a non-affirmation decision, the requester may resubmit a prior authorization request before the item is furnished to the beneficiary and before the claim is submitted for processing.

(5) A prior authorization request for an expedited review must include documentation that shows that processing a prior authorization request using a standard timeline for review could seriously jeopardize the life or health of the beneficiary or the beneficiary's ability to regain maximum function. If CMS or its contractor agrees that processing a prior authorization request using a standard timeline for review could seriously jeopardize the life or health of the beneficiary or the beneficiary's ability to regain maximum function, then CMS or its contractor expedites the review of the prior authorization request and communicates the decision following the receipt of all applicable Medicare required documentation.
