
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Determination of Reasonable Charges Under the ESRD Program
###### ยง 414.314 Monthly capitation payment method.
####### Services not included in the MCP.

(b)(1) Services that are not included in the MCP and which may be paid in accordance with the reasonable charge rules set forth in subpart E of part 405 of this chapter are limited to the following:

(i) Administration of hepatitis B vaccine.

(ii) Covered physician services furnished by another physician when the patient is not available to receive, or the attending physician is not available to furnish, the outpatient services as usual (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section).

(iii) Covered physician services furnished to hospital inpatients, including services related to inpatient dialysis, by a physician who elects not to continue to receive the MCP during the period of inpatient stay.

(iv) Surgical services, including declotting of shunts, other than the insertion of catheters for patients on maintenance peritoneal dialysis who do not have indwelling catheters.

(v) Needed physician services that are-

(A) Furnished by the physician furnishing renal care or by another physician;

(B) Not related to the treatment of the patient's renal condition; and

(C) Not furnished during a dialysis session or an office visit required because of the patient's renal condition.

(2) For the services described in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, the following rules apply:

(i) The physician must provide documentation to show that the services are not related to the treatment of the patient's renal condition and that additional visits are required.

(ii) The carrier's medical staff, acting on the basis of the documentation and appropriate medical consultation obtained by the carrier, determines whether additional payment for the additional services is warranted.

(3) The MCP is reduced in proportion to the number of days the patient is-

(i) Hospitalized and the physician elects to bill separately for services furnished during hospitalization; or

(ii) Not attended by the physician or his or her substitute for any reason, including when the physician is not available to furnish patient care or when the patient is not available to receive care.
