
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### § 414.408 Payment rules.
####### Exceptions.

(2)(i) A grandfathered supplier may furnish a grandfathered item to a beneficiary in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.

(ii) Medicare may make a secondary payment for an item furnished by a noncontract supplier that the beneficiary is required to use under his or her primary insurance policy. The provisions of this paragraph do not supersede Medicare secondary payer statutory and regulatory provisions, including the Medicare secondary payment rules located in §§ 411.32 and 411.33 of this subchapter, and payment will be calculated in accordance with those rules.

(iii) If a beneficiary is outside of the CBA in which he or she maintains a permanent residence, he or she may obtain an item from a-

(A) Contract supplier, if the beneficiary obtains the item in another CBA and the item is included in the competitive bidding program for that CBA; or

(B) Supplier with a valid Medicare billing number, if the beneficiary obtains the item in an area that is not a CBA, or if the beneficiary obtains the item in another CBA but the item is not included in the competitive bidding program for that CBA.

(iv) A physician, treating practitioner, physical therapist in private practice, occupational therapist in private practice, or hospital may furnish an item in accordance with § 414.404(b) of this subpart.

(3) Unless paragraph (e)(2) of this section applies:

(i) Medicare will not make payment for an item furnished in violation of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and

(ii) A beneficiary has no financial liability to a noncontract supplier that furnishes an item included in the competitive bidding program for a CBA in violation of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, unless the beneficiary has signed an advanced beneficiary notice.

(4) CMS separately designates the Medicare billing number of all noncontract suppliers to monitor compliance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
