
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.410 Phased-in implementation of competitive bidding programs.
####### Phase-in of competitive bidding programs.

(a)CMS phases in competitive bidding programs so that competition under the programs occurs-

(1) In CY 2009, in Cincinnati-Middletown (Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana), Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor (Ohio), Charlotte-Gastonia-Concord (North Carolina and South Carolina), Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington (Texas), Kansas City (Missouri and Kansas), Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Miami Beach (Florida), Orlando (Florida), Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania), and Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario (California).

(2) In CY 2011, in an additional 91 MSAs (the additional 70 MSAs selected by CMS as of June 1, 2008, and the next 21 largest MSAs by total population based on 2009 population estimates, and not already phased in as of June 1, 2008). CMS may subdivide any of the 91 MSAs with a population of greater than 8,000,000 into separate CBAs, thereby resulting in more than 91 CBAs.

(3) After CY 2011, additional CBAs (or, in the case of national mail order for items and services, after CY 2010).

(4) For competitions (other than for national mail order items and services) after CY 2011 and prior to CY 2015, the following areas are excluded:

(i) Rural areas.

(ii) MSAs not selected under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section with a population of less than 250,000.

(iii) An area with low population density within an MSA not selected under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
