
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.414 Conditions for awarding contracts.
####### Basic supplier eligibility.

(b)(1) Each supplier must meet the enrollment standards specified in ยง 424.57(c) of this chapter.

(2) Each supplier must disclose information about any prior or current legal actions, sanctions, revocations from the Medicare program, program-related convictions as defined in section 1128(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act, exclusions or debarments imposed against it, or against any members of the board of directors, chief corporate officers, high-level employees, affiliated companies, or subcontractors, by any Federal, State, or local agency. The supplier must certify in its bid that this information is completed and accurate.

(3) Each supplier must have all State and local licenses required to perform the services identified in the request for bids. CMS may not award a contract to any entity in a CBA unless the entity meets applicable State licensure requirements.

(4) Each supplier must submit a bona fide bid that complies with all the terms and conditions contained in the request for bids.

(5) Each network must meet the requirements specified in ยง 414.418.
