
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 31 - MEDICAL CARE FOR CERTAIN PERSONNEL OF THE COAST GUARD, NATIONAL OCEAN SURVEY, PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE, AND FORMER LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE
##### Provisions Applicable to Coast Guard, National Ocean Survey and Public Health Service
###### ยง 31.4 Use of other than Service facilities.

(a) When a person specified in ยง 31.2 who is on active duty requires immediate medical, surgical, or dental treatment or hospitalization and the urgency of the situation does not permit treatment at a medical relief station or by a designated physician or designated dentist, an officer of the same service as the patient may arrange for treatment or hospitalization at the expense of the Service.

(b) When the circumstances are such that an officer of the same service as the patient is not available to make the necessary arrangements, the treatment or hospitalization may be obtained by or on behalf of the patient at the expense of the Service.

(c) In every case of treatment or hospitalization as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, the responsible superior officer of the patient shall be notified as promptly as possible and a full report shall be submitted by such officer to the Surgeon General through appropriate official channels. As soon as practicable, unless the interests of the patient or the Government require otherwise, treatment or hospitalization shall be continued at a medical relief station or by a designated physician or designated dentist or at another appropriate Federal medical facility.

(d) When the necessary medical relief cannot be obtained from a medical relief station or a designated physician or designated dentist, preference shall be given to other Federal medical facilities when reasonably available and when conditions permit.

(e) Vouchers on proper forms covering expenses for treatment or hospitalization under the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be forwarded to the Surgeon General through appropriate official channels. Each such voucher shall be accompanied by or contain a statement of the facts necessitating the treatment or hospitalization. Unreasonable charges for emergency treatment or hospitalization will not be allowed.

(f) Expenses for consultants or special services, or for dental treatment other than emergency measures to relieve pain, shall not be allowed except when authorized in advance by the headquarters of the Service or, in extraordinary cases, when subsequently approved by such headquarters upon receipt of report and satisfactory explanation as to the necessity and urgency therefor.
