
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.423 Appeals process for breach of a DMEPOS competitive bidding program contract actions.
####### Content of the notice of breach of contract.

(2)The CMS notice of breach of contract will include the following:

(i) The details of the breach of contract.

(ii) The action(s) that CMS is taking as a result of the breach of the contract pursuant to ยง 414.422(g)(2), and the duration of or timeframe(s) associated with the action(s), if applicable.

(iii) The right to request a hearing by a CBIC hearing officer and, depending on the nature of the breach, the supplier may also be allowed to submit a corrective action plan (CAP) in lieu of requesting a hearing by a CBIC hearing officer, as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.

(iv) The address to which the written request for a hearing must be submitted.

(v) The address to which the CAP must be submitted, if applicable.

(vi) The effective date of the action(s) that CMS is taking is the date specified by CMS in the notice of breach of contract, or 45 days from the date of the notice of breach of contract unless:

(A) A timely hearing request has been filed; or

(B) A CAP has been submitted within 30 days of the date of the notice of breach of contract where CMS allows a supplier to submit a CAP.
