
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.423 Appeals process for breach of a DMEPOS competitive bidding program contract actions.
####### The CBIC Hearing Officer schedules and conducts the hearing

(g). (1) Within 30 days from the receipt of the supplier's timely request for a hearing the hearing officer will contact the parties to schedule the hearing.

(2) The hearing may be held in person or by telephone at the parties' request.

(3) The scheduling notice to the parties must indicate the time and place for the hearing and must be sent to the parties at least 30 days before the date of the hearing.

(4) The hearing officer may, on his or her own motion, or at the request of a party, change the time and place for the hearing, but must give the parties to the hearing 30 days' notice of the change.

(5) The hearing officer's scheduling notice must provide the parties to the hearing the following information:

(i) A description of the hearing procedure.

(ii) The specific issues to be resolved.

(iii) The supplier has the burden to prove it is not in violation of the contract or that the breach of contract action(s) is not appropriate.

(iv) The opportunity for parties to the hearing to submit additional evidence to support their positions, if requested by the hearing officer.

(v) A notification that all evidence submitted, both from the supplier and CMS, will be provided in preparation for the hearing to all affected parties at least 15 days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing.
