
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.425 Claims for damages.
####### CMS' role as the Determining Authority.

(2)(i) The Determining Authority shall review the recommendation of the CBIC.

(ii) The Determining Authority may seek further information from the claimant or the CBIC in making a concurrence or non-concurrence determination.

(iii) The Determining Authority may set a deadline for receipt of additional information. A claimant's failure to respond timely may result in a denial of the claim.

(iv) If the Determining Authority concurs with the CBIC recommendation, the Determining Authority shall submit a final signed decision to the CBIC and direct the CBIC to notify the claimant of the decision and the reasons for the final decision.

(v) If the Determining Authority non-concurs with the CBIC recommendation, the Determining Authority may return the claim for further processing or the Determining Authority may:

(A) Write a determination granting (in whole or in part) a claim for damages or denying a claim in its entirety;

(B) Direct the CBIC to write said determination for the Determining Authority's signature; or

(C) Return the claim to the CBIC with further instructions.

(vi) The Determining Authority's determination is final and not subject to administrative or judicial review.
