
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.426 Adjustments to competitively bid payment amounts to reflect changes in the HCPCS.

If a HCPCS code for a competitively bid item is revised after the contract period for a competitive bidding program begins, CMS adjusts the single payment amount for that item as follows:

(a) If a single HCPCS code for an item is divided into two or more HCPCS codes for the components of that item, the sum of single payment amounts for the new HCPCS codes equals the single payment amount for the original item. Contract suppliers must furnish the components of the item and submit claims using the new HCPCS codes.

(b) If a single HCPCS code is divided into two or more separate HCPCS codes, the single payment amount for each of the new separate HCPCS codes is equal to the single payment amount applied to the single HCPCS code. Contract suppliers must furnish the items and submit claims using the new separate HCPCS codes.

(c) If the HCPCS codes for components of an item are merged into a single HCPCS code for the item, the single payment amount for the new HCPCS code is equal to the total of the separate single payment amounts for the components. Contract suppliers must furnish the item and submit claims using the new HCPCS code.

(d) If multiple HCPCS codes for similar items are merged into a single HCPCS code, the items to which the new HCPCS codes apply may be furnished by any supplier that has a valid Medicare billing number. Payment for these items will be made in accordance with Subpart C or Subpart D.
