
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Competitive Bidding for Certain Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS)
###### ยง 414.425 Claims for damages.
####### Review of claim.,Role of the CBIC.

(f)(1)(i) The CBIC will review the claim to ensure it is submitted timely, complete, and by an eligible claimant. When the CBIC identifies that a claim is incomplete or not filed timely, it will make a recommendation to the Determining Authority not to process the claim further. Incomplete or untimely claims may be dismissed by the Determining Authority without further processing.

(ii) For complete, timely claims, the CBIC will review the claim on its merits to determine if damages are warranted and may seek further information from the claimant when making its recommendation to the Determining Authority. The CBIC may set a deadline for receipt of additional information. A claimant's failure to respond timely may result in a denial of the claim.

(iii) The CBIC will make a recommendation to the Determining Authority for each claim filed and include an explanation that supports its recommendation.

(iv) The recommendation must be either to award damages for a particular amount (which may not be the same amount requested by the claimant) or that no damages should be awarded.

(A) If the CBIC recommends that damages are warranted, the CBIC will calculate a recommended reasonable amount of damages based on the claim submitted.

(B) The reasonable amount will consider both costs incurred and the contractor's attempts and action to limit the damages;

(v) The recommendation will be sent to the Determining Authority for a final determination.
