
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Payment for Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Tests
###### ยง 414.504 Data reporting requirements.

(a) In a data reporting period, a reporting entity must report applicable information for each CDLT furnished by its component applicable laboratories during the corresponding data collection period, as follows-

(1) For CDLTs that are not ADLTs, initially January 1, 2017 and every 3 years beginning January 1, 2023.

(2) For ADLTs that are not new ADLTs, every year beginning January 1, 2017.

(3) For new ADLTs-

(i) Initially, no later than the last day of the second quarter of the new ADLT initial period; and

(ii) Thereafter, every year.

(b) Applicable information must be reported in the form and manner specified by CMS.

(c) A laboratory seeking new ADLT status for its test must, in its new ADLT application, attest to the actual list charge.

(d) To certify data integrity, the President, CEO, or CFO of a reporting entity, or an individual who has been delegated authority to sign for, and who reports directly to, such an officer, must sign the certification statement and be responsible for assuring that the data provided are accurate, complete, and truthful, and meets all the reporting parameters described in this section.

(e) If the Secretary determines that a reporting entity has failed to report applicable information for its applicable laboratories, or made a misrepresentation or omission in reporting applicable information for its applicable laboratories, the Secretary may apply a civil monetary penalty to a reporting entity in an amount of up to $10,000 per day, as amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Sec. 701 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, Pub. L. 114-74, November 2, 2015), for each failure to report or each such misrepresentation or omission. The provisions for civil monetary penalties that apply in general to the Medicare program under 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b apply in the same manner to the laboratory data reporting process under this section.

(f) CMS or its contractors will not disclose applicable information reported to CMS under this section in a manner that would identify a specific payor or laboratory, or prices charged or payments made to a laboratory, except to permit the Comptroller General, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office, and the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, to review the information, or as CMS determines is necessary to implement this subpart, such as disclosures to the HHS Office of Inspector General or the Department of Justice for oversight and enforcement activities.

(g) Applicable information may not be reported for an entity that does not meet the definition of an applicable laboratory. For a single laboratory that offers and furnishes an ADLT that is not an applicable laboratory except with respect to its ADLTs, the applicable information of its CDLTs that are not ADLTs may not be reported.
