
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Payment for Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Tests
###### ยง 414.509 Reconsideration of basis for and amount of payment for a new clinical diagnostic laboratory test.
####### Reconsideration of amount of payment,Crosswalking.

(b)-(1)(i) For 60 days after making a determination under ยง 414.506(d)(2) of the code or codes to which a new test will be crosswalked, CMS receives reconsideration requests in written format regarding whether CMS should reconsider its determination and the recommended code or codes to which to crosswalk the new test.

(ii)(A) A requestor that submitted a request under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may also present its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under ยง 414.506(c), provided that the requestor requests an opportunity to present at the public meeting as part of its written submission under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) If a requestor presents its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under ยง 414.506(c), members of the public may comment on the reconsideration request verbally at the public meeting and may submit written comments after the public meeting (within the timeframe for public comments established by CMS).

(iii) Considering comments received, CMS may reconsider its determination of the amount of payment. As the result of such a reconsideration, CMS may change the code or codes to which the new test is crosswalked.

(iv) If CMS changes the basis for payment from gapfilling to crosswalking as a result of a reconsideration, the crosswalked amount of payment is not subject to reconsideration.
