
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Payment for Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Tests
###### ยง 414.509 Reconsideration of basis for and amount of payment for a new clinical diagnostic laboratory test.
####### Reconsideration of basis for payment.

(a)(1) CMS will receive reconsideration requests in written format for 60 days after making a determination of the basis for payment under ยง 414.506(d)(2) regarding whether CMS should reconsider the basis for payment and why a different basis for payment would be more appropriate. If a requestor recommends that the basis for payment should be changed from gapfilling to crosswalking, the requestor may also recommend the code or codes to which to crosswalk the new test.

(2)(i) A requestor that submitted a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may also present its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under ยง 414.506(c), provided that the requestor requests an opportunity to present at the public meeting as part of its written submission under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(ii) If the requestor presents its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under ยง 414.506(c), members of the public may comment on the reconsideration request verbally at the public meeting and may submit written comments after the public meeting (within the timeframe for public comments established by CMS).

(3) Considering reconsideration requests and other comments received, CMS may reconsider its determination of the basis for payment. As the result of such a reconsideration, CMS may change the basis for payment from crosswalking to gapfilling or from gapfilling to crosswalking.

(4) If the basis for payment is revised as the result of a reconsideration, the new basis for payment is final and is not subject to further reconsideration.
