
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Payment for Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Tests
###### ยง 414.509 Reconsideration of basis for and amount of payment for a new clinical diagnostic laboratory test.
####### Gapfilling.

(2)(i) By April 30 of the year after CMS makes a determination under ยง 414.506(d)(2) or paragraph (a)(3) of this section that the basis for payment for a CDLT will be gapfilling, CMS posts interim Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts on the CMS Web site.

(ii) For 60 days after CMS posts interim Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts on the CMS Web site, CMS will receive public comments in written format regarding the interim Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts.

(iii) After considering the public comments, CMS will post final Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts on the CMS Web site.

(iv) For 30 days after CMS posts final Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amounts on the CMS Web site, CMS will receive reconsideration requests in written format regarding whether CMS should reconsider the final Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amount and median of the Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amount for the CDLT.

(v) Considering reconsideration requests received, CMS may reconsider its determination of the amount of payment. As the result of a reconsideration, CMS may revise the median of the Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amount for the CDLT.

(3) For both gapfilled and crosswalked new tests, if CMS revises the amount of payment as the result of a reconsideration, the new amount of payment is final and is not subject to further reconsideration.
