
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Fee Schedule for Ambulance Services
###### ยง 414.610 Basis of payment.
####### Ground ambulance service levels.

(1)The CF is multiplied by the applicable RVUs for each level of service to produce a service-level base rate.

(i) For services furnished during the period July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006, ambulance services originating in-

(A) Urban areas (both base rate and mileage) are paid based on a rate that is 1 percent higher than otherwise is applicable under this section; and

(B) Rural areas (both base rate and mileage) are paid based on a rate that is 2 percent higher than otherwise is applicable under this section.

(ii) For services furnished during the period July 1, 2008 through December 31, 2022, ambulance services originating in:

(A) Urban areas (both base rate and mileage) are paid based on a rate that is 2 percent higher than otherwise is applicable under this section.

(B) Rural areas (both base rate and mileage) are paid based on a rate that is 3 percent higher than otherwise is applicable under this section.

(iii) The service-level base rate is then adjusted by the GAF. Compare this amount to the actual charge. The lesser of the actual charge or the GAF adjusted base rate amount is added to the lesser of the actual mileage charges or the payment rate per mile, multiplied by the number of miles that the beneficiary was transported. When applicable, the appropriate RAF is applied to the ground mileage rate to determine the appropriate payment rates. The RVU scale for the ambulance fee schedule is as follows:
