
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Fee Schedule for Ambulance Services
###### ยง 414.615 Transition to the ambulance fee schedule.
####### Updates.

(f)The portion of the transition payment that is based on the existing payment methodology (that is, the non-fee-schedule portion) is updated annually for inflation by a factor equal to the percentage increase in the CPI-U (U.S. city average) for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year. The CY 2002 inflation update factor used to update the 2001 payment amounts is applied to the annualized (average) payment amounts for CY 2001. For the period January 1, 2001 through June 30, 2001, the inflation update factor is 2.7 percent. For the period July 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001, the inflation update factor is 4.7 percent. The average for the year is 3.7 percent. Thus, the annualized (average) CY 2001 payment amounts used to derive the CY 2002 payment amounts are equivalent to the CY 2001 payment amounts that would have been determined had the inflation update factor for the entire CY 2001 been 3.7 percent. Both portions of the transition payment (that is, the portion that is based on reasonable charge or reasonable cost and the portion that is based on the ambulance fee schedule) are updated annually for inflation by the inflation factor described in ยง 414.610(f).
