
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Fee Schedule for Ambulance Services
###### ยง 414.626 Data reporting by ground ambulance organizations.
####### Hardship exemption.

(d)A ground ambulance organization selected under paragraph (c) of this section may request and CMS may grant an exception to the reporting requirements under paragraph (b) of this section in the event of a significant hardship, such as a natural disaster, bankruptcy, or similar situation that the Secretary determines interfered with the ability of the ground ambulance organization to submit such information in a timely manner for the data collection period selected by the ground ambulance organization.

(1) To request a hardship exemption, the ground ambulance organization must submit a request to CMS, in the form and manner specified by CMS, within 90 calendar days of the date that CMS notified the ground ambulance organization that it would receive a 10 percent payment reduction as a result of not submitting sufficient information under the data collection system. The request form must include all of the following:

(i) Ground ambulance organization name.

(ii) NPI number.

(iii) Ground ambulance organization address.

(iv) Chief executive officer and any other designated personnel contact information, including name, email address, telephone number and mailing address (must include a physical address, a post office box address is not acceptable).

(v) Reason for requesting a hardship exemption.

(vi) Evidence of the impact of the hardship (such as photographs, newspaper or other media articles, financial data, bankruptcy filing, etc.).

(vii) Date when the ground ambulance organization would be able to begin collecting data under paragraph (b) of this section.

(viii) Date and signature of the chief executive officer or other designated personnel of the ground ambulance organization.

(2) CMS will provide a written response to the hardship exemption request within 30 days of its receipt of the hardship exemption form.
