
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Submission of Manufacturer's Average Sales Price Data
###### ยง 414.804 Basis of payment.
####### Price concessions.

(2)(i) In calculating the manufacturer's average sales price, a manufacturer must deduct price concessions. Price concessions include the following types of transactions and items:

(A) Volume discounts.

(B) Prompt pay discounts.

(C) Cash discounts.

(D) Free goods that are contingent on any purchase requirement.

(E) Chargebacks and rebates (other than rebates under the Medicaid program).

(ii) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(i), bona fide services fees are not considered price concessions.

(3) To the extent that data on price concessions, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, are available on a lagged basis, the manufacturer must estimate this amount in accordance with the methodology described in this paragraph.

(i)(A) For each National Drug Code with at least 12 months of sales (including products for which the manufacturer has redesignated the National Drug Code for the specific product and package size and has 12 months of sales across the prior and current National Drug Codes), after adjusting for exempted sales, the manufacturer calculates a percentage equal to the sum of the price concessions for the most recent 12-month period available associated with sales subject to the average sales price reporting requirement divided by the total in dollars for the sales subject to the average sales price reporting requirement for the same 12-month period.

(B) For each National Drug Code with less than 12 months of sales, the calculation described in paragraph (i)(A) of this section is performed for the time period equaling the total number of months of sales.

(ii) The manufacturer multiplies the applicable percentage described in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) or (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section by the total in dollars for the sales subject to the average sales price reporting requirement (after adjusting for exempted sales) for the quarter being submitted. (The manufacturer must carry a sufficient number of decimal places in the calculation of the price concessions percentage in order to round accurately the net total sales amount for the quarter to the nearest whole dollar.) The result of this multiplication is then subtracted from the total in dollars for the sales subject to the average sales price reporting requirement (after adjusting for exempted sales) for the quarter being submitted.

(iii) The manufacturer uses the result of the calculation described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section as the numerator and the number of units sold in the quarter (after adjusting for exempted sales) as the denominator to calculate the manufacturer's average sales price for the National Drug Code for the quarter being submitted.
