
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Submission of Manufacturer's Average Sales Price Data
###### ยง 414.804 Basis of payment.
####### Exempted sales.

(4)(i) In calculating the manufacturer's average sales price, a manufacturer must exclude sales that are exempt from inclusion in the determination of the best price under section 1927(c)(1)(C)(i) of the Act and sales that are merely nominal in amount as applied for purposes of section 1927(c)(1)(C)(ii)(III) of the Act, as limited by section 1927(c)(1)(D) of the Act.

(ii) In determining nominal sales exempted under section 1927(c)(1)(C)(ii)(III) of the Act, the manufacturer calculates the average manufacturer price as defined in section 1927(k) of the Act and then identifies sales that are eligible to be considered a nominal sale under section 1927(c)(1)(D) of the Act and are at less than 10 percent of the average manufacturer price. To identify nominal sales, the manufacturer must use the average manufacturer price for the calendar quarter that is the same calendar quarter as the average sales price reporting period.

(5) The manufacturer's average sales price must be calculated by the manufacturer every calendar quarter and submitted to CMS within 30 days of the close of the quarter. The first quarter submission must be submitted by April 30, 2004. Subsequent reports are due not later than 30 days after the last day of each calendar quarter.

(6) The manufacturer's average sales price must be calculated based on the amount of product in a vial or other container as conspicuously reflected on the FDA approved label as defined by section 201(k) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(7) Each report must be certified by one of the following:

(i) The manufacturer's Chief Executive Officer (CEO).

(ii) The manufacturer's Chief Financial Officer (CFO).

(iii) An individual who has delegated authority to sign for, and who reports directly to, the manufacturer's CEO or CFO.

(b) [Reserved]
