
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.906 Competitive acquisition program as the basis for payment.
####### Program payment.

(a)Beginning in 2006, as an alternative to payment under ยง 414.904, payment for a CAP drug may be made through the CAP if the following occurs:

(1) The CAP drug is supplied under the CAP by an approved CAP vendor as specified in ยง 414.908(b).

(2) The claim for the prescribed drug is submitted by the approved CAP vendor that supplied the drug, and payment is made only to that vendor.

(3) The approved CAP vendor collects applicable deductible and coinsurance with respect to the drug furnished under the CAP only after the drug is administered to the beneficiary.

(4) The approved CAP vendor delivers CAP drugs directly to the participating CAP physician in unopened vials or other original containers as supplied by the manufacturer or from a distributor that has acquired the products directly from the manufacturer and includes language with the shipping material stating that the drug was acquired in a manner consistent with all statutory requirements. If the approved CAP vendor opts to split shipments, the participating CAP physician must be notified in writing which can be included with the initial shipment, and each incremental shipment must arrive at least 2 business days before the anticipated date of administration.

(5) The approved CAP vendor bills Medicare only for the amount of the drug administered to the patient, and the beneficiary's coinsurance will be calculated from the quantity of drug that is administered.
