
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.906 Competitive acquisition program as the basis for payment.
####### Updates to payment amount.

(2)(i) The first update is effective on the first day of claims processing for the first quarter of an approved CAP vendor's contract. The first quarterly contract update is based on the reasonable net acquisition cost (RNAC) data reported to CMS or its designee for any purchases of drug before the beginning of CAP claims processing for the contract period and reported to CMS no later than 30 days before the beginning of CAP claims processing.

(ii) For subsequent quarters, each approved CAP vendor must report to CMS or its designee RNAC data for a quarter of CAP drug purchases within 30 days of the close of that quarter.

(iii) For all quarters, only RNAC data from approved CAP vendors that are supplying CAP drugs under their CAP contract at the time updates are being calculated must be used to calculate updated CAP payment amounts.

(iv) CMS excludes such RNAC data submitted by an approved CAP vendor if, during the time calculations are being done, CMS knows that the approved CAP vendor will not be under contract for the applicable quarterly update.

(v) The payment amount weights must be calculated based on the more recent of the following:

(A) Contract bidding weights.

(B) CAP claims data.

(vi) The payment limit must be determined using the most recent payment limits available to CMS under section 1847A of the Act.

(vii) The following payment amount update calculation must be applied for the group of all drugs for which a composite bid is required.

(A) The most recent previous composite payment amount for the group is updated by-
