
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.904 Average sales price as the basis for payment.
####### Treatment of certain drugs.

(5)Beginning with April 1, 2008, the payment amount for-

(i) Each single source drug or biological described in section 1842(o)(1)(G) that is treated as a multiple source drug because of the application of section 1847A(c)(6)(C)(ii) is the lower of-

(A) The payment amount that would be determined for such drug or biological applying section 1847A(c)(6)(C)(ii); or

(B) The payment amount that would have been determined for such drug or biological if section 1847A(c)(6)(C)(ii) were not applied.

(ii) A multiple source drug described in section 1842(o)(1)(G) (excluding a drug or biological that is treated as a multiple source drug because of the application of section 1847A(c)(6)(C)(ii)) is the lower of-

(A) The payment amount that would be determined for such drug or biological taking into account the application of section 1847A(c)(6)(C)(ii); or

(B) The payment amount that would have been determined for such drug or biological if section 1847A(c)(6)(C)(ii) were not applied.

(f) Except as otherwise specified (see paragraph (e)(2) of this section) for infusion drugs, the payment limits are updated quarterly.

(g) The payment limit is computed without regard to any special packaging, labeling, or identifiers on the dosage form or product or package.

(h) The payment amount is subject to applicable deductible and coinsurance.

(i) If manufacturer ASP data is not available prior to the publication deadline for quarterly payment limits and the unavailability of manufacturer ASP data significantly changes the quarterly payment limit for the billing code when compared to the prior quarter's billing code payment limit, the payment limit is calculated by carrying over the most recent available manufacturer ASP price from a previous quarter for an NDC in the billing code, adjusted by the weighted average of the change in the manufacturer ASPs for the NDCs that were reported for both the most recently available previous quarter and the current quarter.
