
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.908 Competitive acquisition program.
####### Program requirements.

(b)(1) CMS selects approved CAP vendors through a competition among entities based on the following:

(i) Submission of the bid prices using the OMB-approved Vendor Application and Bid Form for CAP drugs within the category and competitive acquisition area that-

(A) Places the vendor among the qualified bidders with the lowest five composite bids; and

(B) Does not exceed the weighted payment amount established under section 1847A of the Act across all drugs in that category.

(ii) Ability to ensure product integrity.

(iii) Customer service/Grievance process.

(iv) At least 3 years experience in furnishing Part B injectable drugs.

(v) Financial performance and solvency.

(vi) Record of integrity and the implementation of internal integrity measures.

(vii) Internal financial controls.

(viii) Acquisition of all CAP drugs directly from the manufacturer or from a distributor that has acquired the products directly from the manufacturer.

(ix) Maintenance of appropriate licensure to supply CAP drugs in States in which they are supplying CAP drugs.

(x) Cost-sharing assistance as described in ยง 414.914(g).

(xi) Other factors as determined by CMS.

(2) Approved CAP vendors must also meet the contract requirements under ยง 414.914.
