
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.916 Dispute resolution for vendors and beneficiaries.
####### Dispute resolution.

(b)(1) When an approved CAP vendor is not paid on claims submitted to the designated carrier, the vendor may appeal to the designated carrier to counsel the responsible participating CAP physician on his or her agreement to file a clean claim and pursue an administrative appeal in accordance with subpart H of part 405 of this chapter. If problems persist, the approved CAP vendor may ask the designated carrier to-

(i) Review the participating CAP physician's performance; and

(ii) Potentially recommend to CMS that CMS suspend the participating CAP physician's CAP election agreement.

(2) The designated carrier-

(i) Gathers information from the local carrier, the participating CAP physician, the beneficiary, and the approved CAP vendor; and

(ii) Makes a recommendation to CMS on whether the participating CAP physician has been filing his or her CAP drug administration claims in accordance with the requirements for physician participation in the CAP as set forth in ยง 414.908(a)(3). The recommendation will include numbered findings of fact.

(3) CMS will review the recommendation of the designated carrier and gather relevant additional information from the participating CAP physician before deciding whether to suspend the participating CAP physician's CAP election agreement. A suspension commencing before October 1 will conclude on December 31 of the same year. A suspension commencing on or after October 1 will conclude on December 31 of the next year.

(4) Upon notification from CMS of a participating CAP physician's suspension from the program, the approved CAP vendor must cease delivery of CAP drugs to the suspended participating CAP physician until the suspension has been lifted.

(5) The participating CAP physician may appeal that suspension by requesting a reconsideration of CMS' decision. The reconsideration will address whether the participating CAP physician's denied claims and appeals were the result of the participating CAP physician's failure to participate in accordance with the requirements of ยง 414.908(a)(3).
