
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.916 Dispute resolution for vendors and beneficiaries.
####### Final reconsideration determination.

(9)(i) The hearing officer's decision is final unless the director of the CMS Center for Medicare Management or his or her designee chooses to review that decision within 30 days. If the decision is favorable to the participating CAP physician, then the participating CAP physician may resume his or her participation in CAP. The hearing officer and the CMS official may review decisions that are favorable or unfavorable to the participating CAP physician.

(ii) The CMS official may accept, reject, or modify the hearing officer's findings.

(iii) If the CMS official reviews the hearing officer's decision, the CMS official issues a final reconsideration determination to the participating CAP physician on the basis of the hearing officer's findings and recommendations and other relevant information.

(iv) The reconsideration determination of the CMS official is final. If the final decision is unfavorable to the participating CAP physician, then the participating CAP physician's CAP election agreement is terminated.

(d) The approved CAP vendor may not charge the beneficiary for the full drug coinsurance amount if the designated contractor did not pay the approved CAP vendor in full, unless a properly executed advance beneficiary notice is in place. When a beneficiary receives an inappropriate coinsurance bill, the beneficiary may participate in the approved CAP vendor's grievance process to request correction of the approved CAP vendor's file. If the beneficiary is dissatisfied with the result of the approved CAP vendor's grievance process, the beneficiary may request intervention from the designated carrier. This is in addition to, rather than in place of, any other beneficiary appeal rights. The designated carrier will first investigate the facts and then facilitate correction to the appropriate claim record and beneficiary file.
