
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.917 Dispute resolution and process for suspension or termination of approved CAP contract and termination of physician participation under exigent circumstances.
####### Responsibility of the designated carrier.

(2)The designated carrier-

(i) Gathers information from the local carrier, the participating CAP physician, the beneficiary, and the approved CAP vendor; and

(ii) Makes a recommendation to CMS on whether the approved CAP vendor has been meeting the service and quality obligations of its CAP contract. This recommendation will include numbered findings of fact.

(3) CMS will review the recommendation of the designated carrier and, gather relevant additional information from the approved CAP vendor, the participating CAP physician, the local carrier, and the beneficiary before deciding whether to terminate the approved CAP vendor's CAP contract.

(4) The approved CAP vendor may appeal that termination by requesting a reconsideration. A determination must be made as to whether the approved CAP vendor has been meeting the service and quality obligations of its CAP contract. The approved CAP vendor's contract will remain suspended during the reconsideration process.
