
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### ยง 414.930 Compendia for determination of medically-accepted indications for off-label uses of drugs and biologicals in an anti-cancer chemotherapeutic regimen.
####### Process for listing compendia for determining medically-accepted uses of drugs and biologicals in anti-cancer treatment.

(b)(1) The CMS process-

(i) Receives formal written requests for changes to the list of compendia during a 30 day window beginning January 15 each year.

(ii) Publishes a listing of the timely, complete requests by March 15th and solicits public comment on the requests for 30 days. The listing identifies the requestor and the requested action.

(iii) Considers a compendium's attainment of the MedCAC (Medicare Evidence Development and Coverage Advisory Committee, previously known as the MCAC-Medicare Coverage Advisory Committee) recommended desirable characteristics of compendia (including explicit listing and recommendations) in reviewing requests. CMS may consider additional reasonable factors.

(iv) Considers a compendium's grading of evidence used in making recommendations regarding off-label uses and the process by which the compendium grades the evidence.

(v) Considers whether the publication that is the subject of the request meets the definition of a compendium in this section.

(vi) Publishes its decision no later than 90 days after the close of the public comment period.
