
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Payment for Drugs and Biologicals Under Part B
###### § 414.917 Dispute resolution and process for suspension or termination of approved CAP contract and termination of physician participation under exigent circumstances.
####### CAP participating physicians' exigent circumstances provision.

(d)The following process must be completed for participating CAP physicians' requests to terminate their participation in the program under exigent circumstances provisions described in § 414.908(a)(2)(v):

(1) The designated carrier must-

(i) Determine whether a request to terminate CAP participation was related to approved CAP vendor service, and if so, forward the issue to the approved CAP vendor's grievance process within 1 business day of the receipt of the request; or

(ii) Continue to investigate, consistent with § 414.916(b)(2) of this chapter, and within 2 business days of receipt, do any of the following:

(A) Request a single, 2-business day extension. No later than the end of any 2-business day extension, the designated carrier must make findings and a recommendation as provided in subparagraph (B) or (C).

(B) Submit a recommendation and relevant findings to CMS that the requesting participating CAP physician be permitted to terminate his or her participation in the CAP.

(C) Submit a recommendation and relevant findings to CMS that the requesting participating CAP physician not be permitted to terminate his or her participation in the CAP.

(ii) In the case of a request made under § 414.908(a)(2)(v)(B), the designated carrier also shall include in its recommendation its finding with respect to whether the request is based on a change in circumstances of which the participating CAP physician was previously unaware.

(2) CMS will consider the carrier's findings and recommendation and may also make its own findings. As a result, CMS will-

(i) Approve or deny the request to terminate participation in the CAP within 2 business days of receipt of the recommendation.

(ii) Communicate the decision to the appropriate Medicare contractors and the participating CAP physician.

(3) A denial of the participating CAP physician's request to terminate participation in the CAP must include written notification of the right to request reconsideration under § 414.916(c).

(4) Upon termination of participation in the CAP a physician must-

(i) Continue to submit claims for drugs supplied and administered under the CAP prior to the effective date of the physician's termination from the CAP consistent with § 414.908(a) until all such claims are timely submitted.

(ii) Return any unused CAP drugs that had not been administered to the beneficiary prior to the effective date of the physician's termination from the CAP to the approved CAP vendor consistent with applicable law and regulation and any agreement with the approved CAP vendor.

(iii) Cooperate in any post-payment review activities on claims submitted under the CAP, as required under section 1847B(a)(3) of the Act.

(5) An approved CAP vendor that has billed and been paid for CAP drugs that have not been administered must refund any payments made by CMS or the beneficiary and his or her supplemental insurer in accordance with § 414.914(h)(3)(i)(2) of this chapter.
