
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Value-Based Payment Modifier Under the Physician Fee Schedule
###### ยง 414.1210 Application of the value-based payment modifier.
####### Group size and composition determination

(c). (1) The list of groups of physicians subject to the value-based payment modifier for the CY 2015 payment adjustment period is based on a query of PECOS on October 15, 2013. For each subsequent calendar year payment adjustment period, the list of groups and solo practitioners subject to the value-based payment modifier is based on a query of PECOS that occurs within 10 days of the close of the Physician Quality Reporting System group registration process during the applicable performance period described at ยง 414.1215. Groups are removed from the PECOS-generated list if, based on a claims analysis, the group did not have the required number of eligible professionals, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, that submitted claims during the performance period for the applicable calendar year payment adjustment period. Solo practitioners are removed from the PECOS-generated list if, based on a claims analysis, the solo practitioner did not submit claims during the performance period for the applicable calendar year payment adjustment period.

(2) Beginning with the CY 2016 payment adjustment period, the size of a group during the applicable performance period will be determined by the lower number of eligible professionals as indicated by the PECOS-generated list or claims analysis.

(3) For the CY 2018 payment adjustment period, the composition of a group during the applicable performance period will be determined based on whether the group includes physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and/or other types of nonphysician eligible professionals as indicated by the PECOS-generated list or claims analysis.
