
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Value-Based Payment Modifier Under the Physician Fee Schedule
###### ยง 414.1250 Benchmarks for quality of care measures.

(a) The benchmark for quality of care measures reported through the PQRS using the claims, registries, QCDR, or web interface is the national mean for that measure's performance rate (regardless of the reporting mechanism) during the year prior to the performance period. In calculating the national benchmark, solo practitioners' and groups' (or individual eligible professionals' within such groups) performance rates are weighted by the number of beneficiaries used to calculate the solo practitioners' or groups' (or individual eligible professionals' within such groups) performance rate. Beginning with the CY 2016 performance period, eCQMs reported via EHRs are excluded from the overall benchmark for quality of care measures and separate eCQM benchmarks will be developed. The eCQM benchmark is the national mean for the measure's performance rate during the year prior to the performance period. In calculating the national benchmark, solo practitioners' and groups' (or individual eligible professionals' within such groups) performance rates are weighted by the number of beneficiaries used to calculate the solo practitioners' or groups' (or individual eligible professionals' within such groups) performance rate.

(b) The benchmark for each outcome measure under ยง 414.1230, is the national mean for that measure's performance rate during the year prior to the performance period. In calculating the national benchmark, solo practitioners' and groups' (or individual eligible professionals' within such groups) performance rates are weighted by the number of beneficiaries used to calculate the solo practitioners' or groups' (or individual eligible professionals' within such groups) performance rate.
