
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Value-Based Payment Modifier Under the Physician Fee Schedule
###### § 414.1265 Reliability of measures.

To calculate a composite score for a quality measure or a cost measure, a group or solo practitioner subject to the value-based payment modifier must have 20 or more cases for that measure.

(a) In a performance period, if a group or solo practitioner has fewer than 20 cases for a measure, that measure is excluded from its domain and the remaining measures in the domain are given equal weight.

(1) Starting with the CY 2017 payment adjustment period, the exception to this paragraph (a) is the all-cause hospital readmissions measure described at § 414.1230(c). In a performance period, if a group has fewer than 200 cases for this all-cause hospital readmissions measure, that measure is excluded from its domain and the remaining measures in the domain are given equal weight.

(2) Starting with the CY 2017 payment adjustment period, the Medicare Spending Per Beneficiary measure described at § 414.1235(a)(6) is an exception to this paragraph (a). In a performance period, if a group or a solo practitioner has fewer than 125 episodes for this MSPB measure, that measure is excluded from its domain and the remaining measures in the domain are given equal weight.

(b)(1) For the CY 2015 payment adjustment period, if a reliable quality of care composite or cost composite cannot be calculated, payments will not be adjusted under the value-based payment modifier.

(2) Beginning with the CY 2016 payment adjustment period, a group and a solo practitioner subject to the value-based payment modifier will receive a quality composite score that is classified as "average" under § 414.1275(b)(1) if such group and solo practitioner do not have at least one quality measure that meets the minimum number of cases under paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) Beginning with the CY 2016 payment adjustment period, a group and a solo practitioner subject to the value-based payment modifier will receive a cost composite score that is classified as "average" under § 414.1275(b)(2) if such group and solo practitioner do not have at least one cost measure that meets the minimum number of cases under paragraph (a) of this section.
