
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1305 Definitions.
####### Aligned Other Payer Medical Home Model

means an aligned other payer payment arrangement (not including a Medicaid payment arrangement) operated by a payer formally partnering in a CMS Multi-Payer Model that is a Medical Home Model through a written expression of alignment and cooperation, such as a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with CMS, and is determined by CMS to have the following characteristics:

(1) The other payer payment arrangement has a primary care focus with participants that primarily include primary care practices or multispecialty practices that include primary care physicians and practitioners and offer primary care services. For the purposes of this provision, primary care focus means the inclusion of specific design elements related to eligible clinicians practicing under one or more of the following Physician Specialty Codes: 01 General Practice; 08 Family Medicine; 11 Internal Medicine; 16 Obstetrics and Gynecology; 37 Pediatric Medicine; 38 Geriatric Medicine; 50 Nurse Practitioner; 89 Clinical Nurse Specialist; and 97 Physician Assistant;

(2) Empanelment of each patient to a primary clinician; and

(3) At least four of the following:

(i) Planned coordination of chronic and preventive care.

(ii) Patient access and continuity of care.

(iii) Risk-stratified care management.

(iv) Coordination of care across the medical neighborhood.

(v) Patient and caregiver engagement.

(vi) Shared decision-making.

(vii) Payment arrangements in addition to, or substituting for, fee-for-service payments (for example, shared savings or population-based payments).
