
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 34 - MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF ALIENS
##### § 34.3 Scope of examinations.
###### Scope of all medical examinations.

(b)(1) All medical examinations will include the following:

(i) A general physical examination and medical history, evaluation for tuberculosis, and serologic testing for syphilis.

(ii) A physical examination and medical history for diseases specified in §§ 34.2(b)(1), and 34.2(b)(4) through 34.2(b)(10).

(2) For the examining physician to reach a determination and conclusion about the presence or absence of a physical or mental abnormality, disease, or disability, the scope of the examination shall include any laboratory or additional studies that are deemed necessary, either as a result of the physical examination or pertinent information elicited from the alien's medical history or other relevant records.

(c) Additional medical screening and testing for examinations performed outside the United States.

(1) HHS/CDC may require additional medical screening and testing for medical examinations performed outside the United States for diseases specified in §§ 34.2(b)(2) and 34.2(b)(3) by applying the risk-based medical and epidemiologic factors in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) Such examinations shall be conducted in a defined population in a geographic region or area outside the United States as determined by HHS/CDC.

(3) Additional medical screening and testing shall include a medical interview, physical examination, laboratory testing, radiologic exam, or other diagnostic procedure, as determined by HHS/CDC.

(4) Additional medical screening and testing will continue until HHS/CDC determines such screening and testing is no longer warranted based on factors such as the following: Results of disease outbreak investigations and response efforts; effectiveness of containment and control measures; and the status of an applicable determination of public health emergency of international concern declared by the Director General of the WHO.
