
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### § 414.1310 Applicability.
####### Exclusions.

(b)(1) For a year, a MIPS eligible clinician does not include an eligible clinician who:

(i) Is a Qualifying APM Participant (as defined at § 414.1305);

(ii) Is a Partial Qualifying APM Participant and does not elect to participate in MIPS as a MIPS eligible clinician; or

(iii) Does not exceed the low volume threshold.

(A) Beginning with the 2021 MIPS payment year, if an individual eligible clinician or group exceeds at least one, but not all, of the low-volume threshold criteria and elects to participate in MIPS as a MIPS eligible clinician, the individual eligible clinician or group is treated as a MIPS eligible clinician for the applicable MIPS payment year. For such solo practitioners and groups that elect to participate in MIPS as a virtual group (except for APM Entity groups in MIPS APMs), the virtual group election under § 414.1315 constitutes an election under this paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) and results in the solo practitioners and groups being treated as MIPS eligible clinicians for the applicable MIPS payment year.

(B) For the 2021 and 2022 MIPS payment years, if an APM Entity group in a MIPS APM exceeds at least one, but not all, of the low-volume threshold criteria and elects to participate in MIPS as a MIPS eligible clinician, the APM Entity group is treated as a MIPS eligible clinician for the applicable MIPS payment year. For such APM Entity groups in MIPS APMs, only the APM Entity group election can result in the APM Entity group being treated as MIPS eligible clinicians for the applicable MIPS payment year.

(2) Eligible clinicians, as defined at § 414.1305, who are not MIPS eligible clinicians, as defined at § 414.1305, have the option to voluntarily report measures and activities for MIPS.
