
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1315 Virtual groups.
####### Virtual group agreement.

(3)The virtual group arrangement must be set forth in a formal written agreement among the parties, consisting of each solo practitioner and group that composes a virtual group. The agreement must comply with the following requirements:

(i) Identifies each party by name, TIN, and each NPI under the TIN, and includes as parties only the solo practitioners and groups that compose the virtual group.

(ii) Is for a term of at least one performance period.

(iii) Requires each party to notify each NPI under the party's TIN regarding their participation in the MIPS as a virtual group.

(iv) Sets forth each NPI's rights and obligations in, and representation by, the virtual group, including, but not limited to, the reporting requirements and how participation in the MIPS as a virtual group affects the NPI's ability to participate in the MIPS outside of the virtual group.

(v) Describes how the opportunity to receive payment adjustments will encourage each member of the virtual group (and each NPI under each TIN in the virtual group) to adhere to quality assurance and improvement.

(vi) Requires each party to update its Medicare enrollment information, including the addition or removal of NPIs billing under its TIN, on a timely basis in accordance with Medicare program requirements and to notify the other parties of any such changes within 30 days of the change.

(vii) Requires completion of a close-out process upon termination or expiration of the agreement that requires each party to furnish all data necessary for the parties to aggregate their data across the virtual group's TINs.

(viii) Expressly requires each party to participate in the MIPS as a virtual group and comply with the requirements of the MIPS and all other applicable laws (including, but not limited to, Federal criminal law, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal anti-kickback statute, the Federal civil monetary penalties law, the Federal physician self-referral law, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996).

(ix) Is executed on behalf of each party by an individual who is authorized to bind the party.
