
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1320 MIPS performance period.

(a) For purposes of the 2019 MIPS payment year, the performance period for all performance categories and submission mechanisms except for the cost performance category and data for the quality performance category reported through the CMS Web Interface, for the CAHPS for MIPS survey, and for the all-cause hospital readmission measure, is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within CY 2017, up to and including the full CY 2017 (January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017). For purposes of the 2019 MIPS payment year, for data reported through the CMS Web Interface or the CAHPS for MIPS survey and administrative claims-based cost and quality measures, the performance period under MIPS is CY 2017 (January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017).

(b) For purposes of the 2020 MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The quality and cost performance categories is CY 2018 (January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018).

(2) Promoting Interoperability and improvement activities performance categories is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within CY 2018, up to and including the full CY 2018 (January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018).

(c) For purposes of the 2021 MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The quality and cost performance categories is CY 2019 (January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019).

(2) Promoting Interoperability and improvement activities performance categories is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within CY 2019, up to and including the full CY 2019 (January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019).

(d) For purposes of the CY 2020 performance period/2022 MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The quality and cost performance categories are the full calendar year (January 1 through December 31) that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year.

(2) The improvement activities performance categories are a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within the calendar year that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year, up to and including the full calendar year.

(e) Beginning with the 2023 MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The quality and cost performance categories is the full calendar year (January 1 through December 31) that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year, except as otherwise specified for administrative claims-based measures in the MIPS final list of quality measures described in ยง 414.1330(a)(1).

(2) The improvement activities performance categories is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within the calendar year that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year, up to and including the full calendar year.

(f) For purposes of the 2022 MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The Promoting Interoperability performance category is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within the calendar year that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year, up to and including the full calendar year.

(2) [Reserved]

(g) For purposes of the 2023 MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The Promoting Interoperability performance category is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within the calendar year that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year, up to and including the full calendar year.

(2) [Reserved]

(h) For purposes of the 2024 MIPS payment year and each subsequent MIPS payment year, the performance period for:

(1) The Promoting Interoperability performance category is a minimum of a continuous 90-day period within the calendar year that occurs 2 years prior to the applicable MIPS payment year, up to and including the full calendar year.

(2) [Reserved]
