
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1340 Data completeness criteria for the quality performance category.

(a) MIPS eligible clinicians and groups submitting quality measures data on QCDR measures, MIPS CQMs, or eCQMs must submit data on:

(1) At least 50 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician or group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment year 2019.

(2) At least 60 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician or group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment years 2020 and 2021.

(3) At least 70 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician or group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025.

(4) At least 75 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician or group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment years 2026 and 2027.

(b) MIPS eligible clinicians and groups submitting quality measure data on Medicare Part B claims measures must submit data on:

(1) At least 50 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2019.

(2) At least 60 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2020 and 2021.

(3) At least 70 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025.

(4) At least 75 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2026 and 2027.

(c) Groups submitting quality measures data on CMS Web Interface measures or the CAHPS for MIPS survey must submit data on the sample of the Medicare Part B patients CMS provides, as applicable.
