
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1350 Cost performance category.
####### Attribution.

(b)(1) Cost measures are attributed at the TIN/NPI level for the 2017 thorough 2019 performance periods.

(2) For the total per capita cost measure specified for the 2017 through 2019 performance periods, beneficiaries are attributed using a method generally consistent with the method of assignment of beneficiaries under ยง 425.402 of this chapter.

(3) For the Medicare Spending per Beneficiary clinician (MSPB clinician) measure specified for the 2017 through 2019 performance periods, an episode is attributed to the MIPS eligible clinician who submitted the plurality of claims (as measured by allowed charges) for Medicare Part B services rendered during an inpatient hospitalization that is an index admission for the MSPB clinician measure during the applicable performance period.

(4) For the acute condition episode-based measures specified for the 2017 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who bills at least 30 percent of inpatient evaluation and management (E/M) visits during the trigger event for the episode.

(5) For the procedural episode-based measures specified for the 2017 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who bills a Medicare Part B claim with a trigger code during the trigger event for the episode.

(6) For the acute inpatient medical condition episode-based measures specified for the 2019 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who bills inpatient E/M claim lines during a trigger inpatient hospitalization under a TIN that renders at least 30 percent of the inpatient E/M claim lines in that hospitalization.

(7) For the procedural episode-based measures specified for the 2019 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who renders a trigger service as identified by HCPCS/CPT procedure codes.

(8) Beginning with the 2020 performance period, each cost measure is attributed according to the measure specifications for the applicable performance period.
