
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1370 APM scoring standard under MIPS.
####### Promoting Interoperability.

(4)(i) For the 2019 and 2020 MIPS payment years, each Shared Savings Program ACO participant TIN must report data on the Promoting Interoperability performance category separately from the ACO, as specified in ยง 414.1375(b)(2). The ACO participant TIN scores are weighted according to the number of MIPS eligible clinicians in each TIN as a proportion of the total number of MIPS eligible clinicians in the APM Entity group, and then aggregated to determine an APM Entity score for the ACI performance category.

(ii) For the 2019 and 2020 MIPS payment years, for APM Entities in MIPS APMs other than the Shared Savings Program, CMS uses one score for each MIPS eligible clinician in the APM Entity group to derive a single average APM Entity score for the Promoting Interoperability performance category. Beginning with the 2021 MIPS payment year, for APM Entities in MIPS APMs including the Shared Savings Program, CMS uses one score for each MIPS eligible clinician in the APM Entity group to derive a single average APM Entity score for the Promoting Interoperability performance category. The score for each MIPS eligible clinician is the higher of either:

(A) A group score based on the measure data for the Promoting Interoperability performance category reported by a TIN for the MIPS eligible clinician according to MIPS submission and reporting requirements for groups; or

(B) An individual score based on the measure data for the Promoting Interoperability performance category reported by the MIPS eligible clinician according to MIPS submission and reporting requirements for individuals.

(iii) In the event that a MIPS eligible clinician participating in a MIPS APM receives an exception from the Promoting Interoperability performance category reporting requirements, such eligible clinician will be assigned a null score when CMS calculates the APM Entity's Promoting Interoperability performance category score under the APM scoring standard.

(A) If all MIPS eligible clinicians in an APM Entity have been excepted from reporting the Promoting Interoperability performance category, the performance category weight will be reweighted to zero for the APM Entity for that MIPS performance period.

(B) [Reserved]
