
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1380 Scoring.
####### Performance standards.

(1)(i) For the quality performance category, measures are scored between zero and 10 measure achievement points. Performance is measured against benchmarks. Measure bonus points are available for submitting high-priority measures, submitting measures using end-to-end electronic reporting, and in small practices that submit data on at least 1 quality measure. Beginning with the 2020 MIPS payment year, improvement scoring is available in the quality performance category.

(ii) For the cost performance category, measures are scored between 1 and 10 points. Performance is measured against a benchmark. Starting with the 2024 MIPS payment year, improvement scoring is available in the cost performance category.

(iii) For the improvement activities performance category, each improvement activity is assigned a certain number of points. The points for all submitted activities are summed and scored against a total potential performance category score of 40 points.

(iv) For the Promoting Interoperability performance category, each measure is scored against a maximum number of points. The points for all submitted measures are summed and scored against a total potential performance category score of 100 points.

(2) [Reserved]
