
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### § 414.1380 Scoring.
####### Improvement activities performance category.

(3)Subject to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, the improvement activities performance category score equals the total points for all submitted improvement activities divided by 40 points, multiplied by 100 percent. MIPS eligible clinicians (except for non-patient facing MIPS eligible clinicians, small practices, and practices located in rural areas and geographic HPSAs) receive 10 points for each medium-weighted improvement activity and 20 points for each high-weighted improvement activity required under § 414.1360 on which data is submitted in accordance with § 414.1325. Non-patient facing MIPS eligible clinicians, small practices, and practices located in rural areas and geographic HPSAs receive 20 points for each medium-weighted improvement activity and 40 points for each high-weighted improvement activity required under § 414.1360 on which data is submitted in accordance with § 414.1325.

(i) For MIPS eligible clinicians participating in APMs, the improvement activities performance category score is at least 50 percent.

(ii) For MIPS eligible clinicians in a practice that is certified or recognized as a patient-centered medical home or comparable specialty practice, as determined by the Secretary, the improvement activities performance category score is 100 percent. For the 2019 MIPS payment year, at least one practice site within a group's TIN must be certified or recognized as a patient-centered medical home or comparable specialty practice. For the 2020 MIPS payment year and future years, at least 50 percent of the practice sites within a group's TIN must be recognized as a patient-centered medical home or comparable specialty practice. MIPS eligible clinicians that wish to claim this status for purposes of receiving full credit in the improvement activities performance category must attest to their status as a patient-centered medical home or comparable specialty practice in order to receive this credit. A practice is certified or recognized as a patient-centered medical home if it meets any of the following criteria:

(A) The practice has received accreditation from an accreditation organization that is nationally recognized.

(B) The practice is participating in a Medicaid Medical Home Model or Medical Home Model.

(C) The practice is a comparable specialty practice that has received recognition through a specialty recognition program offered through a nationally recognized accreditation organization; or

(D) The practice has received accreditation from other certifying bodies that have certified a large number of medical organizations and meet national guidelines, as determined by the Secretary. The Secretary must determine that these certifying bodies must have 500 or more certified member practices, and require practices to include the following:
