
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1380 Scoring.
####### Cost performance category.

(2)For each cost measure attributed to a MIPS eligible clinician, the clinician receives one to ten achievement points based on the clinician's performance on the measure during the performance period compared to the measure's benchmark. Achievement points are awarded based on which benchmark decile range the MIPS eligible clinician's performance on the measure is between. CMS assigns partial points based on the percentile distribution.

(i) Cost measure benchmarks are determined by CMS based on cost measure performance during the performance period. At least 20 MIPS eligible clinicians or groups must meet the minimum case volume specified under ยง 414.1350(c) for a cost measure in order for a benchmark to be determined for the measure. If a benchmark is not determined for a cost measure, the measure will not be scored.

(ii) A MIPS eligible clinician must meet the minimum case volume specified under ยง 414.1350(c) to be scored on a cost measure.

(iii) The cost performance category score is the sum of the following, not to exceed 100 percent:

(A) The total number of achievement points earned by the MIPS eligible clinician divided by the total number of available achievement points; and

(B) The cost improvement score, as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iv) The cost improvement score is determined for a MIPS eligible clinician that demonstrates improvement in performance in the current MIPS performance period compared to their performance in the immediately preceding MIPS performance period.

(A) The cost improvement score is determined at the measure level for the cost performance category.

(B) The cost improvement score is calculated only when data sufficient to measure improvement is available. Sufficient data is available when a MIPS eligible clinician or group participates in MIPS using the same identifier in 2 consecutive performance periods and is scored on the same cost measure(s) for 2 consecutive performance periods. If the cost improvement score cannot be calculated because sufficient data is not available, then the cost improvement score is zero.

(C) The cost improvement score is determined by comparing the number of measures with a statistically significant change (improvement or decline) in performance; a change is determined to be significant based on application of a t-test. The number of cost measures with a significant decline is subtracted from the number of cost measures with a significant improvement, with the result divided by the number of cost measures for which the MIPS eligible clinician or group was scored for 2 consecutive performance periods. The resulting fraction is then multiplied by the maximum cost improvement score.

(D) The cost improvement score cannot be lower than zero percentage points.

(E) The maximum cost improvement score for the 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023 MIPS payment years is zero percentage points. The maximum cost improvement score beginning with the 2024 MIPS payment year is 1 percentage point.

(v) A cost performance category score is not calculated if a MIPS eligible clinician or group is not attributed any cost measures for the performance period because the clinician or group has not met the minimum case volume specified by CMS for any of the cost measures or a benchmark has not been created for any of the cost measures that would otherwise be attributed to the clinician or group.

(A) Beginning with the 2024 MIPS payment year, if data used to calculate a score for a cost measure are impacted by significant changes during the performance period, such that calculating the cost measure score would lead to misleading or inaccurate results, then the affected cost measure is excluded from the MIPS eligible clinician's or group's cost performance category score. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(v)(A), "significant changes" are changes external to the care provided, and that CMS determines may lead to misleading or inaccurate results. Significant changes include, but are not limited to, rapid or unprecedented changes to service utilization, and will be empirically assessed by CMS to determine the extent to which the changes impact the calculation of a cost measure score that reflects clinician performance.

(B) [Reserved]
