
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1380 Scoring.
####### Quality performance category score.

(vii)A MIPS eligible clinician's quality performance category score is the sum of all the measure achievement points assigned for the measures required for the quality performance category criteria plus the measure bonus points in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. The sum is divided by the sum of total available measure achievement points. The improvement percent score in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section is added to that result. The quality performance category score cannot exceed 100 percentage points.

(A) For each measure that is submitted, if applicable, and impacted by significant changes or errors prior to the applicable data submission deadline at ยง 414.1325(e), performance is based on data for 9 consecutive months of the applicable CY performance period. If such data are not available or CMS determines that they may result in patient harm or misleading results, the measure is excluded from a MIPS eligible clinician's total measure achievement points and total available measure achievement points. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(vii)(A), "significant changes or errors" means changes to or errors in a measure that are outside the control of the clinician and its agents and that CMS determines may result in patient harm or misleading results. Significant changes or errors include, but are not limited to, changes to codes (such as ICD-10, CPT, or HCPCS codes) or the active status of codes, the inadvertent omission of codes or inclusion of inactive or inaccurate codes, or changes to clinical guidelines or measure specifications. CMS will publish on the CMS website a list of all measures scored under this paragraph (b)(1)(vii)(A) as soon as technically feasible, but by no later than the data submission deadline at ยง 414.1325(e)(1).

(B) Beginning with the 2021 MIPS payment year, for groups that submit 5 or fewer measures and register for the CAHPS for MIPS survey but do not meet the minimum beneficiary sampling requirements, the total available measure achievement points are reduced by 10 points.
