
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1380 Scoring.
####### 3

() For the 2020 MIPS payment year, a bonus score of 10 percentage points for submitting data for the measures for the base score and the performance score generated solely from CEHRT as defined in ยง 414.1305 for 2019 and subsequent years.

(ii) Beginning with the 2019 performance period/2021 MIPS payment year, a MIPS eligible clinician's Promoting Interoperability performance category score equals the sum of the scores for each of the required measures and any applicable bonus scores, not to exceed 100 points.

(A) A MIPS eligible clinician earns a score for each measure by reporting, as applicable: the numerator (of at least one) and denominator, or a yes/no statement. If an exclusion is reported for a measure, the points available for that measure are redistributed to another measure(s).

(B) For the 2019 performance period/2021 MIPS payment year through the 2022 performance period/2024 MIPS payment year, each required measure is worth 10, 20, or 40 points, as specified by CMS. For the 2023 performance period/2025 MIPS payment year and subsequent years, each required measure is worth 10, 15, 25 or 30 points, as specified by CMS.

(C) For the 2019 performance period/2021 MIPS payment year through the 2022 performance period/2024 MIPS payment year, each optional measure is worth five or ten bonus points, as specified by CMS. For the 2023 performance period/2025 MIPS payment year and subsequent years, each optional measure is worth five bonus points, as specified by CMS.
