
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1400 Third party intermediaries.
####### Conditions for approval.

(3)(i) Beginning with the CY 2020 performance period/2022 MIPS payment year, the QCDR or qualified registry must have at least 25 participants by January 1 of the year prior to the applicable performance period.

(ii) If an entity seeking to qualify as a QCDR or qualified registry uses an external organization for purposes of data collection, calculation, or transmission, it must have a signed, written agreement with the external organization that specifically details the responsibilities of the entity and the external organization. The written agreement must be effective as of September 1 of the year preceding the applicable performance period.

(iii) Beginning with the CY 2021 performance period/2023 MIPS payment year, the QCDR or qualified registry must provide performance feedback to their clinicians and groups at least 4 times a year, and provide specific feedback to their clinicians and groups on how they compare to other clinicians who have submitted data on a given measure within the QCDR or qualified registry. Exceptions to this requirement may occur if the QCDR or qualified registry submits notification to CMS within the performance period promptly within the month of realization of the impending deficiency and provides sufficient rationale as to why they do not believe they would be able to meet this requirement (for example, if the QCDR does not receive the data from their clinician until the end of the performance period).

(iv) Beginning with the CY 2023 performance period/2025 MIPS payment year, the QCDR or qualified registry must submit a data validation plan annually, at the time of self-nomination for CMS' approval and may not change the plan once approved without the prior approval of the agency.

(v) Beginning with the CY 2021 performance period/2023 MIPS payment year, the QCDR or qualified registry must conduct annual data validation audits in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3)(v).

(A) The QCDR or qualified registry must conduct data validation for the payment year prior to submitting any data for that payment year to CMS for purposes of the MIPS program.

(B) The QCDR or qualified registry must conduct data validation on data for each performance category for which it will submit data, including if applicable the Quality, Improvement Activities, and Promoting Interoperability performance categories.

(C) The QCDR or qualified registry must conduct data validation on data for each submitter type for which it will submit data, including MIPS eligible clinicians, groups, virtual groups, subgroups, APM entities, voluntary participants, and opt-in participants, if applicable.

(D) The QCDR or qualified registry must use clinical documentation (provided by the clinicians they are submitting data for) to validate that the action or outcome measured actually occurred or was performed.

(E) The QCDR or qualified registry must conduct each data validation audit using a sampling methodology that meets the following requirements:
