
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1400 Third party intermediaries.
####### General.

(a)(1) MIPS data may be submitted on behalf of a MIPS eligible clinician, group, virtual group, subgroup, or APM Entity by any of the following third party intermediaries:

(i) QCDR;

(ii) Qualified registry;

(iii) Health IT vendor; or

(iv) CMS-approved survey vendor.

(2) Third party intermediary approval criteria-

(i) To be approved as a third party intermediary, an entity must agree to meet the applicable requirements of this section, including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) A third party intermediary's principle place of business and retention of any data must be based in the U.S.

(B) If the data is derived from CEHRT, a QCDR, qualified registry, or health IT vendor must be able to indicate its data source.

(C) All data must be submitted in the form and manner specified by CMS.

(D) If the clinician chooses to opt-in in accordance with ยง 414.1310, the third party intermediary must be able to transmit that decision to CMS.

(E) The third party intermediary must provide services throughout the entire performance period and applicable data submission period.

(F) Prior to discontinuing services to any MIPS eligible clinician, group, virtual group, subgroup, or APM Entity during a performance period, the third party intermediary must support the transition of such MIPS eligible clinician, group, virtual group, subgroup, or APM Entity to an alternate third party intermediary, submitter type, or, for any measure on which data has been collected, collection type according to a CMS approved a transition plan.

(ii) The determination of whether to approve an entity as a third party intermediary for a MIPS payment year may take into account:

(A) Whether the entity failed to comply with the requirements of this section for any prior MIPS payment year for which it was approved as third party intermediary; and

(B) Whether the entity provided inaccurate information regarding the requirements of this subpart to any eligible clinician.

(iii) Beginning with the 2023 MIPS payment year, third party intermediaries must attend and complete training and support sessions in the form and manner, and at the times, specified by CMS.

(3) All data submitted to CMS by a third party intermediary on behalf of a MIPS eligible clinician, group, virtual group, subgroup, or APM Entity must be certified by the third party intermediary as true, accurate, and complete to the best of its knowledge. Such certification must be made in a form and manner and at such time as specified by CMS.
