
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1400 Third party intermediaries.
####### 2

() [Reserved]

(vi) Beginning with the CY 2021 performance period/2023 MIPS payment year, the QCDR or qualified registry must conduct targeted audits in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3)(vi).

(A) If a data validation audit under paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section identifies one or more deficiency or data error, the QCDR or qualified registry must conduct a targeted audit into the impact and root cause of each such deficiency or data error for that MIPS payment year.

(B) The QCDR or qualified registry must conduct any required targeted audits for the MIPS payment year and correct any deficiencies or data errors identified through such audit prior to the submission of data for that MIPS payment year.

(C) The QCDR or qualified registry must conduct the targeted audit using the sampling methodology that meets the requirements described in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(E) of this section. The sample for the targeted audit must not include data from the sample used for the data validation audit in which the deficiency or data error was identified.

(D) In a form and manner and by a deadline specified by CMS, the QCDR or qualified registry must report the results of each targeted audit, including the overall deficiency or data error rate, the types of deficiencies or data errors discovered, the percentage of clinicians impacted by each deficiency or data error, and how and when each deficiency or data error type was corrected.

(vii) For the CY 2023 performance period/2025 MIPS payment year, a QCDR or qualified registry that was approved but did not submit any MIPS data for any of the 2019 through 2023 MIPS payment years must submit a participation plan for CMS' approval. The participation plan must include the QCDR and/or qualified registry's detailed plans about how the QCDR or qualified registry intends to encourage clinicians to submit MIPS data to CMS through the QCDR or qualified registry.

(viii) Beginning with the CY 2024 performance period/2026 MIPS payment year, a QCDR or qualified registry that was approved but did not submit any MIPS data for either of the 2 years preceding the applicable self-nomination period must submit a participation plan for CMS' approval. This participation plan must include the QCDR's and/or qualified registry's detailed plans about how the QCDR or qualified registry intends to encourage clinicians to submit MIPS data to CMS through the QCDR or qualified registry.
