
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1400 Third party intermediaries.
####### Remedial action and termination of third party intermediaries.

(e)(1) If CMS determines that a third party intermediary has ceased to meet one or more of the applicable criteria for approval, has submitted a false certification under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or has submitted data that are inaccurate, unusable, or otherwise compromised, CMS may take one or more of the following remedial actions after providing written notice to the third party intermediary:

(i) Require the third party intermediary to submit a corrective action plan (CAP) by a date specified by CMS. The CAP must address the following issues, unless different or additional information is specified by CMS:

(A) The issues that contributed to the non-compliance.

(B) The impact to individual clinicians, groups, virtual groups, subgroups, or APM Entities, regardless of whether they are participating in the program because they are MIPS eligible, voluntarily participating, or opting in to participating in the MIPS program, and any QCDRs that were granted licenses to the measures of a QCDR upon which a CAP has been imposed.

(C) The corrective actions to be implemented by the third party intermediary to ensure that the non-compliance has been resolved and will not recur in the future.

(D) The detailed timeline for achieving compliance with the applicable requirements.

(E) The communication plan for communicating the impact to the parties identified in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(B) of this section.

(ii) Publicly disclose the entity's data error rate on the CMS website until the data error rate falls below 3 percent.

(2) CMS may immediately or with advance notice terminate a third party intermediary for one or more of the following reasons:

(i) CMS has grounds to impose remedial action;

(ii) CMS has not received a CAP within the specified time-period or the CAP is not accepted by CMS; or

(iii) The third party intermediary fails to correct the deficiencies or data errors by the date specified by CMS.

(3) A data submission that contains data inaccuracies affecting the third party intermediary's total clinicians may lead to remedial action/termination of the third party intermediary for future program year(s) based on CMS discretion.

(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), CMS may determine that submitted data are inaccurate, unusable, or otherwise compromised, including but not limited to, if the submitted data:

(i) Includes, without limitation, TIN/NPI mismatches, formatting issues, calculation errors, or data audit discrepancies.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Beginning with the CY 2024 performance period/2026 MIPS payment year, a QCDR or qualified registry that submits a participation plan as required under paragraph (b)(3)(viii) of this section, but does not submit MIPS data for the applicable performance period for which they self-nominated under paragraph (b)(3)(viii) of this section, will be terminated.
