
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1400 Third party intermediaries.
####### QCDR measure rejection criteria.

(iv)Beginning with the CY 2020 performance period/2022 MIPS payment year, QCDR measure rejection considerations include, but are not limited to:

(A) QCDR measures that are duplicative or identical to other QCDR measures or MIPS quality measures that are currently in the program.

(B) QCDR measures that are duplicative or identical to MIPS quality measures that have been removed from MIPS through rulemaking.

(C) QCDR measures that are duplicative or identical to quality measures used under the legacy Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS) program, which have been retired.

(D) QCDR measures that meet the topped out definition as described at ยง 414.1305.

(E) QCDR measures that are process-based, with consideration to whether the removal of the process measure impacts the number of measures available for a specific specialty.

(F) Whether the QCDR measure has potential unintended consequences to a patient's care.

(G) Considerations and evaluation of the measure's performance data, to determine whether performance variance exists.

(H) QCDR measures that split a single clinical practice or action into several QCDR measures.

(I) QCDR measures that are "check-box" with no actionable quality action.

(J) QCDR measures that do not meet the case minimum and reporting volumes required for benchmarking after being in the program for 2 consecutive years.

(K) QCDR measures with clinician attribution issues, where the quality action is not under the direct control of the reporting clinician.

(L) QCDR measures that focus on rare events or "never events" in the measurement period.

(M) QCDR does not have permission to use a QCDR measure owned by another QCDR for the applicable performance period.

(N) If a QCDR measure owner is not approved or is not in good standing, any associated QCDR measures will not be approved.
