
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1400 Third party intermediaries.
####### Additional requirements for CMS-approved survey vendors.

(d)(1) CMS-approved survey vendors may submit data on the CAHPS for MIPS survey for the MIPS quality performance category.

(2) Entities seeking to be a CMS-approved survey vendor for any MIPS performance period must submit a survey vendor application to CMS in a form and manner specified by CMS for each MIPS performance period for which it wishes to transmit such data. The application and any supplemental information requested by CMS must be submitted by deadlines specified by CMS. For an entity to be a CMS-approved survey vendor, it must meet the following criteria:

(3) The entity must have sufficient experience, capability, and capacity to accurately report CAHPS data, including:

(i) At least 3 years of experience administering mixed-mode surveys (that is, surveys that employ multiple modes to collect date), including mail survey administration followed by survey administration via Computer Assisted Telephone Interview (CATI);

(ii) At least 3 years of experience administering surveys to a Medicare population;

(iii) At least 3 years of experience administering CAHPS surveys within the past 5 years;

(iv) Experience administering surveys in English and at least one other language for which a translation of the CAHPS for MIPS survey is available;

(v) Use equipment, software, computer programs, systems, and facilities that can verify addresses and phone numbers of sampled beneficiaries, monitor interviewers, collect data via CATI, electronically administer the survey and schedule call-backs to beneficiaries at varying times of the day and week, track fielded surveys, assign final disposition codes to reflect the outcome of data collection of each sampled case, and track cases from mail surveys through telephone follow-up activities; and

(vi) Employment of a program manager, information systems specialist, call center supervisor and mail center supervisor to administer the survey.

(4) The entity has certified that it has the ability to maintain and transmit quality data in a manner that preserves the security and integrity of the data.

(5) The entity has successfully completed, and has required its subcontractors to successfully complete, vendor training(s) administered by CMS or its contractors.

(6) The entity has submitted a quality assurance plan and other materials relevant to survey administration, as determined by CMS, including cover letters, questionnaires and telephone scripts.

(7) The entity has agreed to participate and cooperate, and has required its subcontractors to participate and cooperate, in all oversight activities related to survey administration conducted by CMS or its contractors.

(8) The entity has sent an interim survey data file to CMS that establishes the entity's ability to accurately report CAHPS data.
