
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1405 Payment.
####### Performance threshold.

(b)A performance threshold will be specified for each MIPS payment year.

(1) MIPS eligible clinicians with a final score at or above the performance threshold receive a zero or positive MIPS payment adjustment factor on a linear sliding scale such that an adjustment factor of 0 percent is assigned for a final score at the performance threshold and an adjustment factor of the applicable percent is assigned for a final score of 100.

(2) MIPS eligible clinicians with a final score below the performance threshold receive a negative MIPS payment adjustment factor on a linear sliding scale such that an adjustment factor of 0 percent is assigned for a final score at the performance threshold and an adjustment factor of the negative of the applicable percent is assigned for a final score of 0; further, MIPS eligible clinicians with final scores that are equal to or greater than zero, but not greater than one-fourth of the performance threshold, receive a negative MIPS payment adjustment factor that is equal to the negative of the applicable percent.

(3) A scaling factor not to exceed 3.0 may be applied to positive MIPS payment adjustment factors to ensure budget neutrality such that the estimated increase in aggregate allowed charges resulting from the application of the positive MIPS payment adjustment factors for the MIPS payment year equals the estimated decrease in aggregate allowed charges resulting from the application of negative MIPS payment adjustment factors for the MIPS payment year.

(4) The performance threshold for the 2019 MIPS payment year is 3 points.

(5) The performance threshold for the 2020 MIPS payment year is 15 points.

(6) The performance threshold for the 2021 MIPS payment year is 30 points.

(7) The performance threshold for the 2022 MIPS payment year is 45 points.

(8) The performance threshold for the 2023 MIPS payment year is 60 points.

(9) Pursuant to the methodology established at paragraph (g) of this section:

(i) The performance threshold for the 2024 MIPS payment year is 75 points. The prior period used to determine the performance threshold is the 2019 MIPS payment year.

(ii) The performance threshold for the 2025 MIPS payment year is 75 points. The prior period used to determine the performance threshold is the 2019 MIPS payment year.
