
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1405 Payment.
####### Additional performance threshold.

(d)An additional performance threshold will be specified for each of the MIPS payment years 2019 through 2024.

(1) In addition to the MIPS payment adjustment factor, MIPS eligible clinicians with a final score at or above the additional performance threshold receive an additional MIPS payment adjustment factor for exceptional performance on a linear sliding scale such that an additional adjustment factor of 0.5 percent is assigned for a final score at the additional performance threshold and an additional adjustment factor of 10 percent is assigned for a final score of 100, subject to the application of a scaling factor as determined by CMS, such that the estimated aggregate increase in payments resulting from the application of the additional MIPS payment adjustment factors for the MIPS payment year shall not exceed $500,000,000 for each of the MIPS payment years 2019 through 2024.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The additional performance threshold for the 2019 MIPS payment year is 70 points.

(4) The additional performance threshold for the 2020 MIPS payment year is 70 points.

(5) The additional performance threshold for the 2021 MIPS payment year is 75 points.

(6) The additional performance threshold for the 2022 and 2023 MIPS payment years is 85 points.

(7) The additional performance threshold for the 2024 MIPS payment year is 89 points.
