
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1415 Advanced APM criteria.
####### Medical Home Model nominal amount standard.

(4)(i) For a Medical Home Model to meet the Medical Home Model nominal amount standard, the total annual amount that an APM Entity potentially owes CMS or foregoes must be at least the following amounts:

(A) For QP Performance Period 2017, 2.5 percent of the average estimated total Medicare Parts A and B revenue of all providers and suppliers in participating APM Entities.

(B) For QP Performance Period 2018, 2.5 percent of the average estimated total Medicare Parts A and B revenue of all providers and suppliers in participating APM Entities.

(C) For QP Performance Period 2019, 3 percent of the average estimated total Medicare Parts A and B revenue of all providers and suppliers in participating APM Entities.

(D) For QP Performance Period 2020, 4 percent of the average estimated total Medicare Parts A and B revenue of all providers and suppliers in participating APM Entities.

(E) For QP Performance Periods 2021 and later, 5 percent of the average estimated total Medicare Parts A and B revenue of all providers and suppliers in participating APM Entities.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) For the purposes of this section, expected expenditures means the beneficiary expenditures for which an APM Entity is responsible under an APM. For episode payment models, expected expenditures means the episode target price. For purposes of assessing financial risk for Advanced APM determinations, the expected expenditures under the terms of the APM should not exceed the Medicare Part A and Part B expenditures for a participant in the absence of the APM. If the expected expenditures under the APM exceed the Medicare Part A and Part B expenditures that an APM Entity would be expected to incur in the absence of the APM, such excess expenditures are not considered when CMS assesses financial risk under the APM for purposes of Advanced APM determinations.
