
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1420 Other payer advanced APM criteria.
####### Use of quality measures.

(c)(1) To be an Other Payer Advanced APM, a payment arrangement must apply quality measures comparable to measures under the MIPS quality performance category, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) At least one of the quality measures used in the payment arrangement as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must:

(i) For QP Performance Period before January 1, 2020, have an evidence-based focus, be reliable and valid, and meet at least one of the following criteria:

(A) Used in the MIPS quality performance category, as described in ยง 414.1330;

(B) Endorsed by a consensus-based entity;

(C) Developed under section 1848(s) of the Act;

(D) Submitted in response to the MIPS Call for Quality Measures under section 1848(q)(2)(D)(ii) of the Act; or

(E) Any other quality measures that CMS determines to have an evidence-based focus and to be reliable and valid; and

(ii) For QP Performance Periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020, be:

(A) Finalized on the MIPS final list of measures, as described in ยง 414.1330;

(B) Endorsed by a consensus-based entity; or

(C) Determined by CMS to be evidenced-based, reliable, and valid.

(3) To meet the quality measure use criterion under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a payment arrangement must:

(i) For QP Performance Periods before January 1, 2020, use an outcome measure if there is an applicable outcome measure on the MIPS quality measure list. This criterion also applies for payment arrangements determined to be Other Payer Advanced APMs on or before January 1, 2020, but only for the Other Payer Advanced APM determination made with respect to the arrangement for the CY 2020 QP Performance Period (regardless of whether that determination is a single- or multi-year determination).

(ii) For QP Performance Periods on or after January 1, 2020, use at least one measure that is an outcome measure and meets the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section if there is such an applicable outcome measure on the MIPS quality measure list.

(4) A single quality measure that meets the criteria under both paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
