
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1425 Qualifying APM participant determination: In general.
####### Group or individual determination under the Medicare Option. (1) APM Entity group determination.

(b)Except for paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section and as set forth in ยง 414.1440, for purposes of the QP determinations for a year, eligible clinicians are grouped and assessed through their collective participation in an APM Entity group that is in an Advanced APM. To be included in the APM Entity group for purposes of the QP determination, an eligible clinician's APM participant identifier must be present on a Participation List of an APM Entity group on one of the dates: March 31, June 30, or August 31 of the QP Performance Period. An eligible clinician included on a Participation List on any one of these dates is included in the APM Entity group even if that eligible clinician is not included on that Participation List at one of the prior or later listed dates. CMS performs QP determinations for the eligible clinicians in an APM entity group three times during the QP Performance Period using claims data for services furnished from January 1 through each of the respective QP determination dates: March 31, June 30, and August 31. An eligible clinician can only be determined to be a QP if the eligible clinician appears on the Participation List on a date (March 31, June 30, or August 31) CMS uses to determine the APM Entity group and to make QP determinations collectively for the APM Entity group based on participation in the Advanced APM.
