
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### § 414.1455 Limitation on review.

(a) There is no right to administrative or judicial review under sections 1869, 1878, or otherwise, of the Act of the following:

(1) The determination that an eligible clinician is a QP or Partial QP under § 414.1425.

(2) The determination of the amount of the APM Incentive Payment under § 414.1450, including any estimation as part of such determination.

(b)(1) An eligible clinician or APM Entity may request targeted review of a QP or Partial QP determination only if they believe in good faith that, due to a CMS clerical error, an eligible clinician was omitted from a Participation List.

(2) If CMS determines that there was such a clerical error, if the QP determination for the eligible clinician would have been made at the APM Entity level under § 414.1425(b)(1), CMS will assign to the eligible clinician the most favorable QP status that was determined at the APM Entity level on any snapshot dates for the relevant QP Performance Period on which the eligible clinician participated in the APM Entity.

(3) The process for targeted review is as follows:

(i) An eligible clinician or APM Entity may submit a request for targeted review.

(ii) All requests for targeted review must be submitted during the targeted review request submission period, which is a 60-day period that begins with the publication of MIPS performance feedback as described at § 414.1385(a)(2). The targeted review request submission period may be extended as specified by CMS.

(iii) All requests for targeted review must be submitted in accordance with the form and manner specified by CMS.

(iv) A request for targeted review may be denied if the request is duplicative of another request for a targeted review; the request is not submitted during the targeted review request submission period; or the request is outside the scope of targeted review specified in this section. If the targeted review request is denied, CMS will make no changes to the QP status of the eligible clinician for whom targeted review was requested.

(v) CMS will respond to each timely submitted request for targeted review.

(vi) A request for targeted review may include additional information in support of the request at the time it is submitted. CMS may also request additional information from the requestor. If CMS requests additional information relating to the eligible clinician or the APM Entity group that is the subject of a request for targeted review, responsive information must be provided and received by CMS within 30 days of the request. If CMS does not receive a timely response to a request for additional information, CMS may make a final decision on the targeted review request based on the information available.

(vii) If targeted review requests reveal a pattern of CMS error with impacts that extend beyond the scope of eligible clinicians or APM Entities that submitted such targeted review requests, CMS may adjust the QP status of other affected eligible clinicians as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(viii) Decisions on a targeted review request are final, and not subject to any further administrative or judicial review in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
