
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1450 APM incentive payment.
####### APM Incentive Payment amount.

(b)(1) The amount of the APM Incentive Payment is equal to 5 percent of the estimated aggregate payments for covered professional services as defined in section 1848(k)(3)(A) of the Act furnished during the calendar year immediately preceding the payment year. CMS uses the paid amounts on claims for covered professional services to calculate the estimated aggregate payments on which CMS will calculate the APM Incentive Payment.

(2) The estimated aggregate payment amount for covered professional services includes all such payments to any and all of the TIN/NPI combinations associated with the NPI of the QP.

(3) In calculating the estimated aggregate payment amount for a QP, CMS uses claims submitted with dates of service from January 1 through December 31 of the incentive payment base period, and processing dates of January 1 of the base period through March 31 of the subsequent payment year.

(4) The payment adjustment amounts, negative or positive, as described in sections 1848(m), (o), (p), and (q) of the Act are not included in calculating the APM Incentive Payment amount.

(5) Incentive payments made to eligible clinicians under sections 1833(m), (x), and (y) of the Act are not included in calculating the APM Incentive Payment amount.

(6) Financial risk payments such as shared savings payments or net reconciliation payments are excluded from the amount of covered professional services in calculating the APM Incentive Payment amount.

(7) Supplemental service payments in the amount of covered professional services are included in calculating the APM Incentive Payment amount according to this paragraph (b). Supplemental service payments are included in the amount of covered professional services when calculating the APM Incentive Payment amount when the supplemental service payment meets the following four criteria:

(i) Is payment for services that constitute physicians services authorized under section 1832(a) and defined under section 1861(s) of the Act.

(ii) Is made for only Part B services under the criterion in paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section.

(iii) Is directly attributable to services furnished to an individual beneficiary.

(iv) Is directly attributable to an eligible clinician, including an eligible clinician that is a group of individual eligible clinicians.

(8) For payment amounts that are affected by a cash flow mechanism, the payment amounts that would have occurred if the cash flow mechanism were not in place are used in calculating the APM Incentive Payment amount.
