
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 414 - PAYMENT FOR PART B MEDICAL AND OTHER HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Merit-Based Incentive Payment System and Alternative Payment Model Incentive
###### ยง 414.1465 Physician-focused payment models.
####### Incentives: Pay for higher-value care.

(1)(i) Value over volume: provide incentives to practitioners to deliver high-quality health care.

(ii) Flexibility: provide the flexibility needed for practitioners to deliver high-quality health care.

(iii) Quality and Cost: are anticipated to improve health care quality at no additional cost, maintain health care quality while decreasing cost, or both improve health care quality and decrease cost.

(iv) Payment methodology: pay APM Entities with a payment methodology designed to achieve the goals of the PFPM Criteria. Addresses in detail through this methodology how Medicare, and other payers if applicable, pay APM Entities, how the payment methodology differs from current payment methodologies, and why the PFPM cannot be tested under current payment methodologies.

(v) Scope: aim to broaden or expand the CMS APM portfolio by addressing an issue in payment policy in a new way or including APM Entities whose opportunities to participate in APMs have been limited.

(vi) Ability to be evaluated: have evaluable goals for quality of care, cost, and any other goals of the PFPM.
