
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 35 - HOSPITAL AND STATION MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 35.17 Fees and charges for copying, certification, search of records and related services.
####### Waiver of fee.

(d)The prescribed fee may be waived, in the discretion of the medical officer in charge, under the following circumstances:

(1) When the service or document is requested by another agency of the Federal Government for use in carrying out official Government business.

(2) When a clinical record is requested for the purpose of providing continued medical care to a Service beneficiary by a non-Service physician, clinic, or hospital, in which case the record will be forwarded only to the physician, clinic, or hospital concerned.

(3) When the service or document is requested by an attorney in the prosecution of a Service beneficiary's personal injury claim against a third person, involving the concurrent assertion of a government medical care claim under 42 U.S.C. 2651-2653. In such case, the service or document requested will be furnished only upon compliance with all additional requirements for the release of records in third party recovery cases, including the proper execution of form PHS-4686, Agreement to Assign Claim Upon Request.

(4) When the service or document is requested by, and furnished to, a Member of Congress for official use.

(5) When the service or document is requested by, and furnished to, a court in lieu of the personal court appearance of an employee of the Public Health Service.

(6) When the service or document is required to be furnished free in accordance with a Federal statute or an Executive order.

(7) When the furnishing of the service or document requested without charge would be an appropriate courtesy to a foreign country or international organization.
