
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 415 - SERVICES FURNISHED BY PHYSICIANS IN PROVIDERS, SUPERVISING PHYSICIANS IN TEACHING SETTINGS, AND RESIDENTS IN CERTAIN SETTINGS
##### Subpart D - Physician Services in Teaching Settings
###### ยง 415.162 Determining payment for physician services furnished to beneficiaries in teaching hospitals.
####### "Salary equivalent" payments for direct medical and surgical services furnished by physicians on the voluntary staff of the hospital.

(d)(1) CMS makes payments under the Medicare program to a fund as defined in ยง 415.164 for direct medical and surgical services furnished to beneficiaries on a regularly scheduled basis by physicians on the unpaid voluntary medical staff of the hospital (or medical school under arrangement with the hospital).

(i) These payments represent compensation for contributed medical staff time which, if not contributed, would have to be obtained through employed staff on a payable basis.

(ii) Payments for volunteer services are determined by applying to the regularly scheduled contributed time an hourly rate not to exceed the equivalent of the average direct salary (exclusive of fringe benefits) paid to all full-time, salaried physicians (other than interns and residents) on the hospital staff or, if the number of full-time salaried physicians is minimal in absolute terms or in relation to the number of physicians on the voluntary staff, to physicians at like institutions in the area.

(iii) This "salary equivalent" is a single hourly rate covering all physicians regardless of specialty and is applied to the actual regularly scheduled time contributed by the physicians in furnishing direct medical and surgical services to beneficiaries including supervision of interns and residents in that care.

(iv) A physician who receives any compensation from the hospital or a medical school related to the hospital by common ownership or control (within the meaning of ยง 413.17 of this chapter) for direct medical and surgical services furnished to any patient in the hospital is not considered an unpaid voluntary physician for purposes of this paragraph.

(v) If, however, a physician receives compensation from the hospital or related medical school or organization only for services that are other than direct medical and surgical services, a salary equivalent payment for the physician's regularly scheduled direct medical and surgical services to beneficiaries in the hospital may be imputed. However, the sum of the imputed value for volunteer services and the physician's actual compensation from the hospital and the related medical school (or organization) may not exceed the amount that would have been imputed if all of the physician's hospital and medical school services (compensated and volunteer) had been volunteer services, or paid at the rate of $30,000 per year, whichever is less.

(2) The following examples illustrate how the allowable imputed value for volunteer services is determined. In each example, it has been assumed that the average salary equivalent hourly rate is equal to the hourly rate for the individual physician's compensated services.

(3) The amount of the imputed value for volunteer services applicable to beneficiaries and payable to a fund is determined in accordance with the aggregate per diem method described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) Medicare payments to a fund must be used by the fund solely for improvement of care of hospital patients or for educational or charitable purposes (which may include but are not limited to medical and other scientific research).

(i) No personal financial gain, either direct or indirect, from benefits of the fund may inure to any of the hospital staff physicians, medical school faculty, or physicians for whom Medicare imputes costs for purposes of payment into the fund.

(ii) Expenses met from contributions made to the hospital from a fund are not included as a reimbursable cost when expended by the hospital, and depreciation expense is not allowed with respect to equipment or facilities donated to the hospital by a fund or purchased by the hospital from monies in a fund.
