
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 416 - AMBULATORY SURGICAL SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Coverage, Scope of ASC Services, and Prospective Payment System for ASC Services Furnished on or After January 1, 2008
###### ยง 416.174 Payment for non-opioid pain management drugs and biologicals that function as supplies in surgical procedures.
####### Eligibility for separate payment for non-opioid pain management drugs and biologicals.

(a)Beginning on or after January 1, 2022, a non-opioid pain management drug or biological that functions as a surgical supply is eligible for separate payment for an applicable calendar year if CMS determines it meets the following requirements through that year's rulemaking:

(1) The drug is approved under a new drug application under section 505(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), under an abbreviated new drug application under section 505(j), or, in the case of a biological product, is licensed under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act. The product has an FDA approved indication for pain management or analgesia.

(2) The per-day cost of the drug or biological estimated by CMS for the year exceeds the OPPS drug packaging threshold set for such year through notice and comment rulemaking.

(3) The drug or biological does not have transitional pass-through payment status under ยง 419.64 of this subchapter. In the case where a drug or biological otherwise meets the requirements under this section and has transitional pass-through payment status that expires during the calendar year, the drug or biological will qualify for separate payment as specified in this paragraph (a) during such calendar year on the first day of the next calendar year quarter following the expiration of its pass-through status.

(4) The drug or biological is not already separately payable in the OPPS or ASC payment system under a policy other than the one specified in this section.

(b) [Reserved]
