
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 416 - AMBULATORY SURGICAL SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Requirements Under the Ambulatory Surgical Center Quality Reporting (ASCQR) Program
###### ยง 416.310 Data collection and submission requirements under the ASCQR Program.
####### Requirements for claims-based measures using quality data codes (QDCs).

(a)(1) ASCs must submit complete data on individual claims-based quality measures through a claims-based reporting mechanism by submitting the appropriate QDCs on the ASC's Medicare claims.

(2) The data collection period for claims-based quality measures reported using QDCs is the calendar year 2 years prior to the payment determination year. Only claims for services furnished in each calendar year paid by the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) by April 30 of the following year of the ending data collection period will be included in the data used for the payment determination year.

(3) For ASCQR Program purposes, data completeness for claims-based measures using QDCs is determined by comparing the number of Medicare claims (where Medicare is the primary or secondary payer) meeting measure specifications that contain the appropriate QDCs with the number of Medicare claims that meet measure specifications, but do not have the appropriate QDCs on the submitted Medicare claim. The minimum threshold for successful reporting is that at least 50 percent of Medicare claims meeting measure specifications contain the appropriate QDCs. ASCs that meet this minimum threshold are regarded as having provided complete data for the claims-based measures using QDCs for the ASCQR Program.
