
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart C - Qualified Health Maintenance Organizations: Organization and Operation
###### ยง 417.120 Fiscally sound operation and assumption of financial risk.
####### Fiscally sound operation,General requirements.

(a)-(1)Each HMO must have a fiscally sound operation, as demonstrated by the following:

(i) Total assets greater than total unsubordinated liabilities. In evaluating assets and liabilities, loan funds awarded or guaranteed under section 1306 of the PHS Act are not included as liabilities.

(ii) Sufficient cash flow and adequate liquidity to meet obligations as they become due.

(iii) A net operating surplus, or a financial plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(iv) An insolvency protection plan that meets the requirements of ยง 417.122(b) for protection of enrollees.

(v) A fidelity bond or bonds, procured and maintained by the HMO, in an amount fixed by its policymaking body but not less than $100,000 per individual, covering each officer and employee entrusted with the handling of its funds. The bond may have reasonable deductibles, based upon the financial strength of the HMO.

(vi) Insurance policies or other arrangements, secured and maintained by the HMO and approved by CMS to insure the HMO against losses arising from professional liability claims, fire, theft, fraud, embezzlement, and other casualty risks.
