
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart C - Qualified Health Maintenance Organizations: Organization and Operation
###### ยง 417.124 Administration and management.
####### Requirements for the description.

(2)(i) The description must be written in a way that can be easily understood by the average person who might enroll in the HMO.

(ii) The description of benefits and coverage may be in general terms if reference is made to a detailed statement of benefits and coverage that is available without cost to any person who enrolls in the HMO or to whom the opportunity for enrollment is offered.

(iii) The HMO must provide the description to any enrollee or person who is eligible to elect the HMO option and who requests the material from the HMO or the administrator of a health benefits plan. For purposes of this requirement, "administrator" (of a health benefits plan) has the meaning it is given in the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) at 29 U.S.C. 1002(16)(A).

(iv) If the HMO provides health services through individual practice associations (IPAs), the HMO must specify the number of member physicians by specialty, and a listing of the hospitals where HMO enrollees will receive basic and supplemental health services.

(v) If the HMO provides health services other than through IPAs, the HMO must specify, for each ambulatory care facility, the facility's address, days and hours of operation, and the number of physicians by specialty, and a listing of the hospitals where HMO enrollees will receive basic and supplemental health services.
