
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 37 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF COAL MINERS
##### Subpart - Chest Radiographic Examinations
###### Specifications for Performing Chest Radiographic Examinations
####### ยง 37.44 Approval of radiographic facilities that use digital radiography systems.
######## see

(1) Image files must be submitted on standard portable media (compact or digital video disc) and formatted to meet specifications of the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard PS 3.12-2011 (incorporated by reference,ยง 37.10). Applicants will be advised of any reasons for denial of approval.

(2) All submitted images must be made within 60 days prior to the date of application using the same technique, equipment, and software as will be used by the facility under the requested approval. At least six chest radiographs and one test object radiograph must have been made with each digital radiographic unit to be used by the facility under the requested approval. The corresponding radiographic image files must be submitted on standard portable media (compact or digital video disc) and formatted to meet specifications of the current DICOM Standard PS 3.12-2011.

(3) Documentation must include the following: the identity of the facility where each radiograph was made; the X-ray machine used; and the model, version, and production date of each image acquisition software program and hardware component.

(4) The submitted sample digital chest image files must include at least two taken with the detector in the vertical position and two in the horizontal position where the imaging system permits these positions, and at least two chest images must be from persons within the highest quartile of chest diameters (28 cm or greater).

(b) Each radiographic facility submitting chest radiographic image files for approval under this section must complete and include an Radiographic Facility Certification Document (CDC 2.11) describing each system component, and the models and versions of image acquisition hardware and software to be used to make digital chest radiographs under the Act. The form must include:

(1) A copy of a dated report signed by a qualified medical physicist, documenting the evaluation of radiation safety and performance characteristics specified in this section for each digital radiography system;

(2) A copy of the report of the most recent radiation safety inspection by a licensing agency, if such agency exists;

(3) A listing of all deficiencies noted in either of the reports;

(4) A statement that all the listed deficiencies have been corrected; and

(5) The names and relevant training and experience of facility personnel described in paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section. To be acceptable, the report by the medical physicist and radiation safety inspection specified in this paragraph (b) must have been made within 1 year prior to the date of submission of the application.

(c) Facilities must maintain ongoing licensure and certification under relevant local, State, and Federal laws and regulations for all digital equipment and related processes covered under this part.

(d) NIOSH or its representatives may make a physical inspection of the applicant's facility and any approved radiographic facility at any reasonable time to determine if the requirements of this subpart are being met.
