
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart E - Inclusion of Qualified Health Maintenance Organizations in Employee Health Benefits Plans
###### ยง 417.155 How the HMO option must be included in the health benefits plan.
####### Examples of the employing entity's obligation with respect to the continued eligibility.

(3)(i) The health benefits plan includes a free-standing dental benefit. The HMO does not offer any dental coverage as part of its health services provided to members on a prepaid basis. The employing entity must provide that employees who select the HMO option continue to be eligible for dental coverage. (If the dental coverage is not optional for employees selecting the non-HMO option, nothing in this regulation requires that the coverage be made optional for employees selecting the HMO option. Conversely, if this coverage is optional for employees selecting the non-HMO option, nothing in this regulation requires that the coverage be mandatory for employees selecting the non-HMO option.) -

(ii) The non-HMO option provides free-standing coverage for optical services (such as refraction and the provision of eyeglasses), and the HMO does not. The employing entity must provide that employees who select the HMO option continue to be eligible for optical coverage.

(iii) The non-HMO option includes dental coverage in its major medical package, with a common deductible applied to dental as well as non-dental benefits. The HMO provides no dental coverage as part of its pre-paid health services. Because the dental coverage is not free-standing, the employing entity is not required to provide that employees who select the HMO option continue to be eligible for dental coverage, but is free to do so.
