
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart J - Qualifying Conditions for Medicare Contracts
###### ยง 417.413 Qualifying condition: Operating experience and enrollment.
####### Waiver of composition of enrollment standard.

(2)CMS may waive compliance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the HMO or CMP has made and is making reasonable efforts to enroll individuals who are not Medicare beneficiaries and it meets one of the following requirements:

(i) The HMO or CMP serves a geographic area in which Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid beneficiaries constitute more than 50 percent of the population. (CMS does not grant a waiver that would permit the percentage of Medicare and Medicaid enrollees to exceed the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid beneficiaries in the population of the geographic area.)

(ii) The HMO or CMP is owned and operated by a government entity. The waiver may be for a period up to three years after the date the HMO or CMP first enters into a contract under this subpart, and may not be extended.

(iii) The HMO or CMP requests waiver of the composition rule because it is in the public interest. The organization provides documentation that supports one of the following:

(A) The organization serves a medically underserved rural or urban area.

(B) The organization demonstrates a long-term business and community service commitment to the area.

(C) The organization believes that a waiver is necessary to promote managed care choices in an area with limited or no managed care choices.
