
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart K - Enrollment, Entitlement, and Disenrollment under Medicare Contract
###### ยง 417.436 Rules for enrollees.
####### 3

() Describe the range of medical conditions or procedures affected by the conscience objection.

(ii) Provide the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) of this section to each enrollee at the time of initial enrollment. If an enrollee is incapacitated at the time of initial enrollment and is unable to receive information (due to the incapacitating condition or a mental disorder) or articulate whether or not he or she has executed an advance directive, the HMO or CMP may give advance directive information to the enrollee's family or surrogate in the same manner that it issues other materials about policies and procedures to the family of the incapacitated enrollee or to a surrogate or other concerned persons in accordance with State law. The HMO or CMP is not relieved of its obligation to provide this information to the enrollee once he or she is no longer incapacitated or unable to receive such information. Follow-up procedures must be in place to ensure that the information is given to the individual directly at the appropriate time.

(iii) Document in the individual's medical record whether or not the individual has executed an advance directive;

(iv) Not condition the provision of care or otherwise discriminate against an individual based on whether or not the individual has executed an advance directive;

(v) Ensure compliance with requirements of State law (whether statutory or recognized by the courts of the State) regarding advance directives;

(vi) Provide for education of staff concerning its policies and procedures on advance directives; and

(vii) Provide for community education regarding advance directives that may include material required in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section, either directly or in concert with other providers or entities. Separate community education materials may be developed and used, at the discretion of the HMO or CMP. The same written materials are not required for all settings, but the material should define what constitutes an advance directive, emphasizing that an advance directive is designed to enhance an incapacitated individual's control over medical treatment, and describe applicable State law concerning advance directives. An HMO or CMP must be able to document its community education efforts.

(2) The HMO or CMP-(i) Is not required to provide care that conflicts with an advance directive.

(ii) Is not required to implement an advance directive if, as a matter of conscience, the HMO or CMP cannot implement an advance directive and State law allows any health care provider or any agent of such provider to conscientiously object.

(3) The HMO or CMP must inform individuals that complaints concerning non-compliance with the advance directive requirements may be filed with the State survey and certification agency.
