
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart K - Enrollment, Entitlement, and Disenrollment under Medicare Contract
###### ยง 417.440 Entitlement to health care services from an HMO or CMP.
####### Notice of noncoverage of inpatient hospital care.

(f)(1) If an enrollee is an inpatient of a hospital, entitlement to inpatient hospital care continues until he or she receives notice of noncoverage of that care.

(2) Before giving notice of noncoverage, the HMO or CMP must obtain the concurrence of its affiliated physician responsible for the hospital care of the enrollee, or other physician as authorized by the HMO or CMP.

(3) The HMO or CMP must give the enrollee written notice that includes the following:

(i) The reason why inpatient hospital care is no longer needed.

(ii) The effective date of the enrollee's liability for continued inpatient care.

(iii) The enrollee's appeal rights.

(4) If the HMO or CMP delegates to the hospital the determination of noncoverage of inpatient care, the hospital obtains the concurrence of the HMO- or CMP-affiliated physician responsible for the hospital care of the enrollee, or other physician as authorized by the HMO or CMP, and sends notice, following the procedures set forth in ยง 412.42(c)(3) of this chapter.
