
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 37 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF COAL MINERS
##### Subpart - Chest Radiographic Examinations
###### Specifications for Interpretation, Classification, and Submission of Chest Radiographs
####### ยง 37.60 Submitting required chest radiograph classification and miner identification documents.

(a) Each chest radiograph required to be made under this subpart, together with the completed Chest Radiograph Classification Form and the completed Miner Identification Document, must be submitted together for each miner to NIOSH within 14 calendar days after the radiographic examination is given. All submitted items become the property of NIOSH.

(1) When the radiograph is digital, the image file for each radiograph, together with either hard copy or electronic versions of the completed Chest Radiograph Classification Form and the completed Miner Identification Document, must be submitted to NIOSH using the software and format specified by NIOSH either using portable electronic media, or a secure electronic file transfer.

(2) NIOSH will notify the submitting facility when it has received the image files and forms from the examination. After this notification, the facility will permanently delete, or if this is not technologically feasible for the imaging system used, render permanently inaccessible all files and forms from its electronic and physical files.

(b) If NIOSH deems any submission under paragraph (a) of this section inadequate, the operator will be notified of the deficiency. The operator must promptly make appropriate arrangements for the necessary reexamination at no expense to the miner.

(c) Failure to comply with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section will be cause to revoke approval of a plan or any other approval as may be appropriate. An approval that has been revoked may be reinstated at the discretion of NIOSH after it receives satisfactory assurances and evidence that all deficiencies have been corrected and that effective controls have been instituted to prevent a recurrence.

(d) Chest radiographs and other required documents must be submitted only for miners.

(e) If a miner refuses to participate in all phases of the examination prescribed in this subpart, no report need be made. If a miner refuses to participate in any phase of the examination prescribed in this subpart, all forms must be submitted with his or her name and the last four digits of the Social Security number on each. If any form cannot be completed because of the miner's refusal, it must be marked "Miner Refuses," and submitted to NIOSH. No submission will be made, however, without a completed Miner Identification Document (CDC/NIOSH 2.9) containing the miner's name, address, last four digits of the Social Security number and place of employment.
