
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart K - Enrollment, Entitlement, and Disenrollment under Medicare Contract
###### ยง 417.460 Disenrollment of beneficiaries by an HMO or CMP.
####### Exception.

(2)An HMO or CMP may retain a Medicare enrollee who is absent from its geographic area for an extended period, but who remains within the United States as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter if the enrollee agrees. For purposes of this exception, the following provisions apply:

(i) An absence for an extended period means an uninterrupted absence from the HMO's or CMP's geographic area for more than 90 days but less than 1 year.

(ii) The HMO or CMP and the enrollee may mutually agree upon restrictions for obtaining services while the enrollee is absent for an extended period from the HMO's or CMP's geographic area. However, restrictions may not be imposed on the scope of services described in ยง 417.440.

(iii) HMOs and CMPs that choose to exercise this exception must make the option available to all Medicare enrollees who are absent for an extended period from their geographic areas. However, HMOs and CMPs may limit this option to enrollees who go to a geographic area served by an affiliated HMO or CMP.

(iv) As used in this paragraph, "affiliated HMO or CMP" means an HMO or CMP that-

(A) Is under common ownership or control of the HMO or CMP that seeks to retain the absent enrollees; or

(B) Has in effect an agreement to furnish services to enrollees who are on an extended absence from the geographic area of the HMO or CMP that seeks to retain them.

(v) When the enrollee returns to the HMO's or CMP's geographic area (even temporarily), the restrictions of ยง 417.448(a) (which limit payment for services not provided or arranged for by the HMO or CMP) apply again immediately.

(vi) If the enrollee fails to return to the HMO's or CMP's geographic area within 1 year from the date he or she left that area, the HMO or CMP must disenroll the beneficiary on the first day of the month following the anniversary of the date the enrollee left that area in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
