
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart L - Medicare Contract Requirements
###### ยง 417.479 Requirements for physician incentive plans.
####### Arrangements that cause substantial financial risk.,potential payments

(f)For purposes of this paragraph,means the maximum anticipated total payments (based on the most recent year's utilization and experience and any current or anticipated factors that may affect payment amounts) that could be received if use or costs of referral services were low enough. The following physician incentive plans cause substantial financial risk if risk is based (in whole or in part) on use or costs of referral services and the patient panel size is not greater than 25,000 patients:

(1) Withholds greater than 25 percent of potential payments.

(2) Withholds less than 25 percent of potential payments if the physician or physician group is potentially liable for amounts exceeding 25 percent of potential payments.

(3) Bonuses that are greater than 33 percent of potential payments minus the bonus.

(4) Withholds plus bonuses if the withholds plus bonuses equal more than 25 percent of potential payments. The threshold bonus percentage for a particular withhold percentage may be calculated using the formula-

(5) Capitation, arrangements, if-

(i) The difference between the maximum potential payments and the minimum potential payments is more than 25 percent of the maximum potential payments; or

(ii) The maximum and minimum potential payments are not clearly explained in the physician's or physician group's contract.

(6) Any other incentive arrangements that have the potential to hold a physician or physician group liable for more than 25 percent of potential payments.
