
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart L - Medicare Contract Requirements
###### ยง 417.479 Requirements for physician incentive plans.
####### Requirements for physician incentive plans that place physicians at substantial financial risk.

(g)HMOs and CMPs that operate incentive plans that place physicians or physician groups at substantial financial risk must do the following:

(1) Conduct enrollee surveys. These surveys must-

(i) Include either all current Medicare/Medicaid enrollees in the HMO or CMP and those who have disenrolled (other than because of loss of eligibility in Medicaid or relocation outside the HMO's or CMP's service area) in the past 12 months, or a sample of these same enrollees and disenrollees;

(ii) Be designed, implemented, and analyzed in accordance with commonly accepted principles of survey design and statistical analysis;

(iii) Address enrollees/disenrollees satisfaction with the quality of the services provided and their degree of access to the services; and

(iv) Be conducted no later than 1 year after the effective date of the Medicare contract and at least annually thereafter.

(2) Ensure that all physicians and physician groups at substantial financial risk have either aggregate or per-patient stop-loss protection in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) If aggregate stop-loss protection is provided, it must cover 90 percent of the costs of referral services (beyond allocated amounts) that exceed 25 percent of potential payments.

(ii) If the stop-loss protection provided is based on a per-patient limit, the stop-loss limit per patient must be determined based on the size of the patient panel and may be a single combined limit or consist of separate limits for professional services and institutional services. In determining patient panel size, the patients may be pooled in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section. Stop-loss protection must cover 90 percent of the costs of referral services that exceed the per patient limit. The per-patient stop-loss limit is as follows:
