
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart P - Medicare Payment: Risk Basis
###### ยง 417.594 Computation of adjusted community rate (ACR).
####### Computation of initial rates.

(b)(1) The HMO or CMP must compute its initial rate using either of the following systems:

(i) A community rating system as defined in ยง 417.104(b); or

(ii) A system, approved by CMS, under which the HMO or CMP develops an aggregate premium for all its enrollees and weights the aggregate by the size of the various enrolled groups that compose its enrollment.

(2) Regardless of which method the HMO or CMP uses-

(i) The initial rate must be equal to the premium it would charge its non-Medicare enrollees for the Medicare-covered services;

(ii) The HMO or CMP must compute the rates separately for enrollees entitled to Medicare Part A and Part B and for those entitled only to Part B; and

(iii) The HMO or CMP must identify and take into account anticipated revenue from health insurance payers for those services for which Medicare is not the primary payer as provided in ยง 417.528.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the HMO or CMP must identify in its initial rate calculation, the following components whose rates must be consistent with rates used by the HMO or CMP in calculating premiums for non-Medicare enrollees:

(i) Hospital services (services covered under Medicare Part A and Part B shown separately).

(ii) Physicians' services.

(iii) Other medical services (for example, X-ray and laboratory services).

(iv) Home health services.

(v) Out-of-plan claims for emergency services.

(vi) Skilled nursing care services.

(vii) Ambulance services.

(viii) Other Medicare covered services.

(ix) General and administrative.

(x) Noncovered Medicare services (for example, eyeglasses).

(xi) Services for which Medicare is the secondary payer.

(xii) Enrollee liabilities (for example, deductibles, coinsurance, or copayments) for covered services.

(4) An HMO or CMP that does not usually separate its premium components as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may calculate its initial rate with the methods it uses for its other enrolled groups if the HMO or CMP provides CMS with the documentation necessary to support any adjustments the HMO or CMP makes to the initial rate in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(5) The initial rate calculation must not carry forward any losses experienced by the HMO or CMP during prior contract periods. The HMO or CMP must submit supporting documentation to assure CMS that rates do not include past losses but only premiums for the price of additional benefits and services of the upcoming contract period.
