
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 417 - HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS, COMPETITIVE MEDICAL PLANS, AND HEALTH CARE PREPAYMENT PLANS
##### Subpart U - Health Care Prepayment Plans
###### § 417.808 Interim per capita payments.

The HCPP follows the principles specified in §§ 417.570 and 417.572 on interim per capita payments, except for the following:

(a) When applying these principles to HCPPs, the term "reporting period" should be used instead of the term "contract period" contained in that section.

(b) An HCPP must submit to CMS an annual operating budget and enrollment forecast, in the form and detail specified by CMS, at least 60 days before the beginning of each reporting period. A reporting period must be 12 consecutive months, except that the HCPP's initial reporting period for participating in Medicare may be as short as 6 months or as long as 18 months.

(c) An HCPP must submit to CMS an interim cost report and enrollment data applicable to the first 6-month period of the HCPP's reporting period in the form and detail specified by CMS. The interim cost report must be submitted not later than 45 days after the close of the first 6-month period of the HCPP's reporting period.

(d) In lieu of an interim payment based on the actual monthly enrollment in an HCPP, CMS and the HCPP may agree to a uniform monthly interim reimbursement rate for a reporting period. This interim rate is based on the HCPP's budget and enrollment forecast, if CMS is satisfied that the rate is consistent with efficiency and economy, and will not result in excessive adjustment at the end of the reporting period.
