
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart C - Conditions of Participation: Patient Care
###### Non-Core Services
####### ยง 418.76 Condition of participation: Hospice aide and homemaker services.
######## Standard: Hospice aide qualifications.

(a)(1) A qualified hospice aide is a person who has successfully completed one of the following:

(i) A training program and competency evaluation as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section respectively.

(ii) A competency evaluation program that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) A nurse aide training and competency evaluation program approved by the State as meeting the requirements of ยง 483.151 through ยง 483.154 of this chapter, and is currently listed in good standing on the State nurse aide registry.

(iv) A State licensure program.

(2) A hospice aide is not considered to have completed a program, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if, since the individual's most recent completion of the program(s), there has been a continuous period of 24 consecutive months during which none of the services furnished by the individual as described in ยง 409.40 of this chapter were for compensation. If there has been a 24-month lapse in furnishing services, the individual must complete another program, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, before providing services.
