
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart C - Conditions of Participation: Patient Care
###### Non-Core Services
####### ยง 418.76 Condition of participation: Hospice aide and homemaker services.
######## Standard: Content and duration of hospice aide classroom and supervised practical training.

(b)(1) Hospice aide training must include classroom and supervised practical training in a practicum laboratory or other setting in which the trainee demonstrates knowledge while performing tasks on an individual under the direct supervision of a registered nurse, or a licensed practical nurse, who is under the supervision of a registered nurse. Classroom and supervised practical training combined must total at least 75 hours.

(2) A minimum of 16 hours of classroom training must precede a minimum of l6 hours of supervised practical training as part of the 75 hours.

(3) A hospice aide training program must address each of the following subject areas:

(i) Communication skills, including the ability to read, write, and verbally report clinical information to patients, care givers, and other hospice staff.

(ii) Observation, reporting, and documentation of patient status and the care or service furnished.

(iii) Reading and recording temperature, pulse, and respiration.

(iv) Basic infection control procedures.

(v) Basic elements of body functioning and changes in body function that must be reported to an aide's supervisor.

(vi) Maintenance of a clean, safe, and healthy environment.

(vii) Recognizing emergencies and the knowledge of emergency procedures and their application.

(viii) The physical, emotional, and developmental needs of and ways to work with the populations served by the hospice, including the need for respect for the patient, his or her privacy, and his or her property.

(ix) Appropriate and safe techniques in performing personal hygiene and grooming tasks, including items on the following basic checklist:

(A) Bed bath.

(B) Sponge, tub, and shower bath.

(C) Hair shampoo (sink, tub, and bed).

(D) Nail and skin care.

(E) Oral hygiene.

(F) Toileting and elimination.

(x) Safe transfer techniques and ambulation.

(xi) Normal range of motion and positioning.

(xii) Adequate nutrition and fluid intake.

(xiii) Any other task that the hospice may choose to have an aide perform. The hospice is responsible for training hospice aides, as needed, for skills not covered in the basic checklist, as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ix) of this section.

(4) The hospice must maintain documentation that demonstrates that the requirements of this standard are met.
