
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart C - Conditions of Participation: Patient Care
###### Non-Core Services
####### ยง 418.76 Condition of participation: Hospice aide and homemaker services.
######## Standard: Competency evaluation.

(c)An individual may furnish hospice aide services on behalf of a hospice only after that individual has successfully completed a competency evaluation program as described in this section.

(1) The competency evaluation must address each of the subjects listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Subject areas specified under paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (iii), (ix), (x), and (xi) of this section must be evaluated by observing an aide's performance of the task with a patient or pseudo-patient. The remaining subject areas may be evaluated through written examination, oral examination, or after observation of a hospice aide with a patient or a pseudo-patient during a simulation.

(2) A hospice aide competency evaluation program may be offered by any organization, except as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) The competency evaluation must be performed by a registered nurse in consultation with other skilled professionals, as appropriate.

(4) A hospice aide is not considered competent in any task for which he or she is evaluated as unsatisfactory. An aide must not perform that task without direct supervision by a registered nurse until after he or she has received training in the task for which he or she was evaluated as "unsatisfactory," and successfully completes a subsequent evaluation. A hospice aide is not considered to have successfully completed a competency evaluation if the aide has an "unsatisfactory" rating in more than one of the required areas.

(5) The hospice must maintain documentation that demonstrates the requirements of this standard are being met.
