
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart C - Conditions of Participation: Patient Care
###### Non-Core Services
####### ยง 418.76 Condition of participation: Hospice aide and homemaker services.
######## Standard: Hospice aide assignments and duties.

(g)(1) Hospice aides are assigned to a specific patient by a registered nurse that is a member of the interdisciplinary group. Written patient care instructions for a hospice aide must be prepared by a registered nurse who is responsible for the supervision of a hospice aide as specified under paragraph (h) of this section.

(2) A hospice aide provides services that are:

(i) Ordered by the interdisciplinary group.

(ii) Included in the plan of care.

(iii) Permitted to be performed under State law by such hospice aide.

(iv) Consistent with the hospice aide training.

(3) The duties of a hospice aide include the following:

(i) The provision of hands-on personal care.

(ii) The performance of simple procedures as an extension of therapy or nursing services.

(iii) Assistance in ambulation or exercises.

(iv) Assistance in administering medications that are ordinarily self-administered.

(4) Hospice aides must report changes in the patient's medical, nursing, rehabilitative, and social needs to a registered nurse, as the changes relate to the plan of care and quality assessment and improvement activities. Hospice aides must also complete appropriate records in compliance with the hospice's policies and procedures.
