
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart C - Conditions of Participation: Patient Care
###### Non-Core Services
####### ยง 418.76 Condition of participation: Hospice aide and homemaker services.
######## Standard: Supervision of hospice aides.

(h)(1) A registered nurse must make an on-site visit to the patient's home:

(i) No less frequently than every 14 days to assess the quality of care and services provided by the hospice aide and to ensure that services ordered by the hospice interdisciplinary group meet the patient's needs. The hospice aide does not have to be present during this visit.

(ii) If an area of concern is noted by the supervising nurse, then the hospice must make an on-site visit to the location where the patient is receiving care in order to observe and assess the aide while he or she is performing care.

(iii) If an area of concern is verified by the hospice during the on-site visit, then the hospice must conduct, and the hospice aide must complete, a competency evaluation of the deficient skill and all related skill(s) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) A registered nurse must make an annual on-site visit to the location where a patient is receiving care in order to observe and assess each aide while he or she is performing care.

(3) The supervising nurse must assess an aide's ability to demonstrate initial and continued satisfactory performance in meeting outcome criteria that include, but is not limited to-

(i) Following the patient's plan of care for completion of tasks assigned to the hospice aide by the registered nurse.

(ii) Creating successful interpersonal relationships with the patient and family.

(iii) Demonstrating competency with assigned tasks.

(iv) Complying with infection control policies and procedures.

(v) Reporting changes in the patient's condition.
