
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart C - Conditions of Participation: Patient Care
###### ยง 418.56 Condition of participation: Interdisciplinary group, care planning, and coordination of services.
####### Standard: Approach to service delivery.

(a)(1) The hospice must designate an interdisciplinary group or groups composed of individuals who work together to meet the physical, medical, psychosocial, emotional, and spiritual needs of the hospice patients and families facing terminal illness and bereavement. Interdisciplinary group members must provide the care and services offered by the hospice, and the group, in its entirety, must supervise the care and services. The hospice must designate a registered nurse that is a member of the interdisciplinary group to provide coordination of care and to ensure continuous assessment of each patient's and family's needs and implementation of the interdisciplinary plan of care. The interdisciplinary group must include, but is not limited to, individuals who are qualified and competent to practice in the following professional roles:

(i) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy (who is an employee or under contract with the hospice).

(ii) A registered nurse.

(iii) A social worker.

(iv) A pastoral or other counselor.

(2) If the hospice has more than one interdisciplinary group, it must identify a specifically designated interdisciplinary group to establish policies governing the day-to-day provision of hospice care and services.
