
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart D - Conditions of participation: Organizational Environment
###### ยง 418.106 Condition of participation: Drugs and biologicals, medical supplies, and durable medical equipment.
####### Disposing.

(2)(i) Safe use and disposal of controlled drugs in the patient's home. The hospice must have written policies and procedures for the management and disposal of controlled drugs in the patient's home. At the time when controlled drugs are first ordered the hospice must:

(A) Provide a copy of the hospice written policies and procedures on the management and disposal of controlled drugs to the patient or patient representative and family;

(B) Discuss the hospice policies and procedures for managing the safe use and disposal of controlled drugs with the patient or representative and the family in a language and manner that they understand to ensure that these parties are educated regarding the safe use and disposal of controlled drugs; and

(C) Document in the patient's clinical record that the written policies and procedures for managing controlled drugs was provided and discussed.

(ii) Disposal of controlled drugs in hospices that provide inpatient care directly. The hospice that provides inpatient care directly in its own facility must dispose of controlled drugs in compliance with the hospice policy and in accordance with State and Federal requirements. The hospice must maintain current and accurate records of the receipt and disposition of all controlled drugs.
