
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart D - Conditions of participation: Organizational Environment
###### ยง 418.106 Condition of participation: Drugs and biologicals, medical supplies, and durable medical equipment.
####### Standard: Use and maintenance of equipment and supplies.

(f)(1) The hospice must ensure that manufacturer recommendations for performing routine and preventive maintenance on durable medical equipment are followed. The equipment must be safe and work as intended for use in the patient's environment. Where a manufacturer recommendation for a piece of equipment does not exist, the hospice must ensure that repair and routine maintenance policies are developed. The hospice may use persons under contract to ensure the maintenance and repair of durable medical equipment.

(2) The hospice must ensure that the patient, where appropriate, as well as the family and/or other caregiver(s), receive instruction in the safe use of durable medical equipment and supplies. The hospice may use persons under contract to ensure patient and family instruction. The patient, family, and/or caregiver must be able to demonstrate the appropriate use of durable medical equipment to the satisfaction of the hospice staff.

(3) Hospices may only contract for durable medical equipment services with a durable medical equipment supplier that meets the Medicare DMEPOS Supplier Quality and Accreditation Standards at 42 CFR 424.57.
