
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart D - Conditions of participation: Organizational Environment
###### ยง 418.110 Condition of participation: Hospices that provide inpatient care directly.
####### Standard: Death reporting requirements.

(p)Hospices must report deaths associated with the use of seclusion or restraint.

(1) The hospice must report the following information to CMS:

(i) Each unexpected death that occurs while a patient is in restraint or seclusion.

(ii) Each unexpected death that occurs within 24 hours after the patient has been removed from restraint or seclusion.

(iii) Each death known to the hospice that occurs within 1 week after restraint or seclusion where it is reasonable to assume that use of restraint or placement in seclusion contributed directly or indirectly to a patient's death. "Reasonable to assume" in this context includes, but is not limited to, deaths related to restrictions of movement for prolonged periods of time, or death related to chest compression, restriction of breathing or asphyxiation.

(2) Each death referenced in this paragraph must be reported to CMS by telephone no later than the close of business the next business day following knowledge of the patient's death.

(3) Staff must document in the patient's clinical record the date and time the death was reported to CMS.
