
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart D - Conditions of participation: Organizational Environment
###### ยง 418.112 Condition of participation: Hospices that provide hospice care to residents of a SNF/NF or ICF/IID.
####### Standard: Written agreement.

(c)The hospice and SNF/NF or ICF/IID must have a written agreement that specifies the provision of hospice services in the facility. The agreement must be signed by authorized representatives of the hospice and the SNF/NF or ICF/IID before the provision of hospice services. The written agreement must include at least the following:

(1) The manner in which the SNF/NF or ICF/IID and the hospice are to communicate with each other and document such communications to ensure that the needs of patients are addressed and met 24 hours a day.

(2) A provision that the SNF/NF or ICF/IID immediately notifies the hospice if-

(i) A significant change in a patient's physical, mental, social, or emotional status occurs;

(ii) Clinical complications appear that suggest a need to alter the plan of care;

(iii) A need to transfer a patient from the SNF/NF or ICF/IID, and the hospice makes arrangements for, and remains responsible for, any necessary continuous care or inpatient care necessary related to the terminal illness and related conditions; or

(iv) A patient dies.

(3) A provision stating that the hospice assumes responsibility for determining the appropriate course of hospice care, including the determination to change the level of services provided.

(4) An agreement that it is the SNF/NF or ICF/IID responsibility to continue to furnish 24 hour room and board care, meeting the personal care and nursing needs that would have been provided by the primary caregiver at home at the same level of care provided before hospice care was elected.

(5) An agreement that it is the hospice's responsibility to provide services at the same level and to the same extent as those services would be provided if the SNF/NF or ICF/IID resident were in his or her own home.

(6) A delineation of the hospice's responsibilities, which include, but are not limited to the following: Providing medical direction and management of the patient; nursing; counseling (including spiritual, dietary and bereavement); social work; provision of medical supplies, durable medical equipment and drugs necessary for the palliation of pain and symptoms associated with the terminal illness and related conditions; and all other hospice services that are necessary for the care of the resident's terminal illness and related conditions.

(7) A provision that the hospice may use the SNF/NF or ICF/IID nursing personnel where permitted by State law and as specified by the SNF/NF or ICF/IID to assist in the administration of prescribed therapies included in the plan of care only to the extent that the hospice would routinely use the services of a hospice patient's family in implementing the plan of care.

(8) A provision stating that the hospice must report all alleged violations involving mistreatment, neglect, or verbal, mental, sexual, and physical abuse, including injuries of unknown source, and misappropriation of patient property by anyone unrelated to the hospice to the SNF/NF or ICF/IID administrator within 24 hours of the hospice becoming aware of the alleged violation.

(9) A delineation of the responsibilities of the hospice and the SNF/NF or ICF/IID to provide bereavement services to SNF/NF or ICF/IID staff.
