
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart D - Conditions of participation: Organizational Environment
###### ยง 418.113 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Policies and procedures.

(b)The hospice must develop and implement emergency preparedness policies and procedures, based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, risk assessment at paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the communication plan at paragraph (c) of this section. The policies and procedures must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. At a minimum, the policies and procedures must address the following:

(1) Procedures to follow up with on-duty staff and patients to determine services that are needed, in the event that there is an interruption in services during or due to an emergency. The hospice must inform State and local officials of any on-duty staff or patients that they are unable to contact.

(2) Procedures to inform State and local officials about hospice patients in need of evacuation from their residences at any time due to an emergency situation based on the patient's medical and psychiatric condition and home environment.

(3) A system of medical documentation that preserves patient information, protects confidentiality of patient information, and secures and maintains the availability of records.

(4) The use of hospice employees in an emergency and other emergency staffing strategies, including the process and role for integration of State and Federally designated health care professionals to address surge needs during an emergency.

(5) The development of arrangements with other hospices and other providers to receive patients in the event of limitations or cessation of operations to maintain the continuity of services to hospice patients.

(6) The following are additional requirements for hospice-operated inpatient care facilities only. The policies and procedures must address the following:

(i) A means to shelter in place for patients, hospice employees who remain in the hospice.

(ii) Safe evacuation from the hospice, which includes consideration of care and treatment needs of evacuees; staff responsibilities; transportation; identification of evacuation location(s) and primary and alternate means of communication with external sources of assistance.

(iii) The provision of subsistence needs for hospice employees and patients, whether they evacuate or shelter in place, include, but are not limited to the following:

(A) Food, water, medical, and pharmaceutical supplies.

(B) Alternate sources of energy to maintain the following:
