
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart D - Conditions of participation: Organizational Environment
###### ยง 418.114 Condition of participation: Personnel qualifications.
####### 3

() The Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association and the American Physical Therapy Association.

(iv) On or before December 31, 1977 was licensed or qualified as a physical therapist and meets both of the following:

(A) Has 2 years of appropriate experience as a physical therapist.

(B) Has achieved a satisfactory grade on a proficiency examination conducted, approved, or sponsored by the U.S. Public Health Service.

(v) Before January 1, 1966-

(A) Was admitted to membership by the American Physical Therapy Association;

(B) Was admitted to registration by the American Registry of Physical Therapists; and

(C) Graduated from a physical therapy curriculum in a 4-year college or university approved by a State department of education.

(vi) Before January 1, 1966 was licensed or registered, and before January 1, 1970, had 15 years of fulltime experience in the treatment of illness or injury through the practice of physical therapy in which services were rendered under the order and direction of attending and referring doctors of medicine or osteopathy.

(vii) If trained outside the United States before January 1, 2008, meets the following requirements:

(A) Was graduated since 1928 from a physical therapy curriculum approved in the country in which the curriculum was located and in which there is a member organization of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy.

(B) Meets the requirements for membership in a member organization of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy.
