
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart F - Covered Services
###### ยง 418.202 Covered services.
####### Home health or hospice aide services furnished by qualified aides as designated in ยง 418.76 and homemaker services.

(g)Home health aides (also known as hospice aides) may provide personal care services as defined in ยง 409.45(b) of this chapter. Aides may perform household services to maintain a safe and sanitary environment in areas of the home used by the patient, such as changing bed linens or light cleaning and laundering essential to the comfort and cleanliness of the patient. Aide services must be provided under the general supervision of a registered nurse. Homemaker services may include assistance in maintenance of a safe and healthy environment and services to enable the individual to carry out the treatment plan.

(h) Physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech-language pathology services in addition to the services described in ยง 409.33 (b) and (c) of this chapter provided for purposes of symptom control or to enable the patient to maintain activities of daily living and basic functional skills.

(i) Effective April 1, 1998, any other service that is specified in the patient's plan of care as reasonable and necessary for the palliation and management of the patient's terminal illness and related conditions and for which payment may otherwise be made under Medicare.
