
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart G - Payment for Hospice Care
###### ยง 418.304 Payment for physician, and nurse practitioner, and physician assistant services.

(a) The following services performed by hospice physicians and nurse practitioners are included in the rates described in ยง 418.302:

(1) General supervisory services of the medical director.

(2) Participation in the establishment of plans of care, supervision of care and services, periodic review and updating of plans of care, and establishment of governing policies by the physician member of the interdisciplinary group.

(b) For services not described in paragraph (a) of this section, a specified Medicare contractor pays the hospice an amount equivalent to 100 percent of the physician fee schedule for those physician services furnished by hospice employees or under arrangements with the hospice. Reimbursement for these physician services is included in the amount subject to the hospice payment limit described in ยง 418.309. Services furnished voluntarily by physicians are not reimbursable.

(c) Services of the patient's attending physician, if he or she is not an employee of the hospice or providing services under arrangements with the hospice, are not considered hospice services and are not included in the amount subject to the hospice payment limit described in ยง 418.309. These services are paid by the carrier under the procedures in subpart B, part 414 of this chapter.
