
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart G - Payment for Hospice Care
###### § 418.304 Payment for physician, and nurse practitioner, and physician assistant services.
####### Payment for hospice pre-election evaluation and counseling services.

(d)The intermediary makes payment to the hospice for the services established in § 418.205. Payment for this service is set at an amount established under the physician fee schedule, for an office or other outpatient visit for evaluation and management associated with presenting problems of moderate severity and requiring medical decision-making of low complexity other than the portion of the amount attributable to the practice expense component. Payment for this pre-election service does not count towards the hospice cap amount.

(e)(1) Effective December 8, 2003, Medicare pays for attending physician services provided by nurse practitioners to Medicare beneficiaries who have elected the hospice benefit and who have selected a nurse practitioner as their attending physician. This applies to nurse practitioners without regard to whether they are hospice employees.

(2) Nurse practitioners may bill and receive payment for services only if the-

(i) Nurse practitioner is the beneficiary's attending physician as defined in § 418.3;

(ii) Services are medically reasonable and necessary;

(iii) Services are performed by a physician in the absence of the nurse practitioner; and

(iv) Services are not related to the certification of terminal illness specified in § 418.22.

(3) Payment for nurse practitioner services are made at 85 percent of the physician fee schedule amount.

(f)(1) Effective January 1, 2019, Medicare pays for attending physician services provided by physician assistants to Medicare beneficiaries who have elected the hospice benefit and who have selected a physician assistant as their attending physician. This applies to physician assistants without regard to whether they are hospice employees.

(2) The employer or a contractor of a physician assistant must bill and receive payment for physician assistant services only if the-

(i) Physician assistant is the beneficiary's attending physician as defined in § 418.3;

(ii) Services are medically reasonable and necessary;

(iii) Services are performed by a physician in the absence of the physician assistant and, the physician assistant services are furnished under the general supervision of a physician; and

(iv) Services are not related to the certification of terminal illness specified in § 418.22.

(3) The payment amount for physician assistant services when serving as the attending physician for hospice patients is 85 percent of what a physician is paid under the Medicare physician fee schedule.
