
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart G - Payment for Hospice Care
###### § 418.308 Limitation on the amount of hospice payments.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the total Medicare payment to a hospice for care furnished during a cap period is limited by the hospice cap amount specified in § 418.309.

(b) Until October 1, 1986, payment to a hospice that began operation before January 1, 1975 is not limited by the amount of the hospice cap specified in § 418.309.

(c) The hospice must file its aggregate cap determination notice with its Medicare contractor no later than 5 months after the end of the cap year and remit any overpayment due at that time. Hospices shall file the aggregate cap using data no earlier than 3 months after the end of the cap period. The Medicare contractor will notify the hospice of the final determination of program reimbursement in accordance with procedures similar to those described in § 405.1803 of this chapter. If a provider fails to file its self-determined cap determination with its Medicare contractor within 5 months after the cap year, payments to the hospice will be suspended in whole or in part, until a self-determined cap determination is filed with the Medicare contractor, in accordance with§ 405.371(e) of this chapter.

(d) Payments made to a hospice during a cap period that exceed the cap amount are overpayments and must be refunded.
