
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 418 - HOSPICE CARE
##### Subpart G - Payment for Hospice Care
###### ยง 418.312 Data submission requirements under the hospice quality reporting program.
####### HospiceQRPReconsiderations@cms.hhs.gov

(2) A hospice requesting an exemption or extension must do so within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred by sending an email to CMS Hospice QRP Reconsiderations atthat contains all of the following information:

(i) Hospice CMS Certification Number (CCN).

(ii) Hospice Business Name.

(iii) Hospice Business Address.

(iv) CEO or CEO-designated personnel contact information including name, title, telephone number, email address, and mailing address (the address must be a physical address, not a post office box).

(v) Hospice's reason for requesting the exemption or extension.

(vi) Evidence of the impact of extraordinary circumstances beyond the hospice's control, including, but not limited to photographs, newspaper, other media articles, or independent sources attesting to the incident that can be reasonably corroborated. Include dates of occurrence and other documentation that may support the rationale for seeking extension or exemption.

(vii) Date when the hospice believes it will be able to again submit data under paragraph (b) of this section and a justification for the proposed date.

(3) CMS may grant exemptions or extensions to hospices without a request if it determines that one or more of the following has occurred:

(i) An extraordinary circumstance, such as an act of nature including a pandemic, affects an entire region or locale.

(ii) A systemic problem with one of CMS' data collection systems directly affect the ability of a hospice to submit data under paragraph (b) of this section.
