
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 419 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR HOSPITAL OUTPATIENT DEPARTMENT SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 419.2 Basis of payment.
####### Determination of hospital outpatient prospective payment rates: Excluded costs.

(c)The following costs are excluded from the hospital outpatient prospective payment system.

(1) The costs of direct graduate medical education activities as described in §§ 413.75 through 413.83 of this chapter.

(2) The costs of nursing and allied health programs as described in § 413.85 of this chapter.

(3) The costs associated with interns and residents not in approved teaching programs as described in § 415.202 of this chapter.

(4) The costs of teaching physicians attributable to Part B services for hospitals that elect cost-based reimbursement for teaching physicians under § 415.160.

(5) The reasonable costs of anesthesia services furnished to hospital outpatients by qualified nonphysician anesthetists (certified registered nurse anesthetists and anesthesiologists' assistants) employed by the hospital or obtained under arrangements, for hospitals that meet the requirements under § 412.113(c) of this chapter.

(6) Bad debts for uncollectible deductibles and coinsurances as described in § 413.89(b) of this chapter.

(7) Organ acquisition costs paid under Part B.

(8) Corneal tissue acquisition or procurement costs for corneal transplant procedures.
