
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 419 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR HOSPITAL OUTPATIENT DEPARTMENT SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Categories of Hospitals and Services Subject to and Excluded From the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System
###### ยง 419.21 Hospital services subject to the outpatient prospective payment system.

Except for services described in ยง 419.22, effective for services furnished on or after July 1, 2000, payment is made under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system for the following:

(a) Medicare Part B services furnished to hospital outpatients designated by the Secretary under this part.

(b) Services designated by the Secretary that are covered under Medicare Part B when furnished to hospital inpatients who are either not entitled to benefits under Part A or who have exhausted their Part A benefits but are entitled to benefits under Part B of the program.

(c) Partial hospitalization services furnished by community mental health centers (CMHCs).

(d) The following medical and other health services furnished by a home health agency (HHA) to patients who are not under an HHA plan or treatment or by a hospice program furnishing services to patients outside the hospice benefit:

(1) Antigens.

(2) Splints and casts.

(3) Hepatitis B vaccine.

(e)(1) Effective January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, an initial preventive physical examination, as defined in ยง 410.16 of this chapter, if the examination is performed no later than 6 months after the individual's initial Part B coverage date that begins on or after January 1, 2005.

(2) Effective January 1, 2009, an initial preventive physical examination, as defined in ยง 410.16 of this chapter, if the examination is performed no later than 12 months after the date of the individual's initial enrollment in Part B.
