
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 419 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR HOSPITAL OUTPATIENT DEPARTMENT SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payments to Hospitals
###### § 419.41 Calculation of national beneficiary copayment amounts and national Medicare program payment amounts.

(a) To calculate the unadjusted copayment amount for each APC group, CMS-

(1) Standardizes 1996 hospital charges for the services within each APC group to offset variations in hospital labor costs across geographic areas;

(2) Identifies the median of the wage-neutralized 1996 charges for each APC group; and

(3) Determines the value equal to 20 percent of the wage-neutralized 1996 median charge for each APC group and multiplies that value by an actuarial projection of increases in charges for hospital outpatient department services during the period 1996 to 1999. The result is the unadjusted beneficiary copayment amount for the APC group.

(b) CMS calculates annually the program payment percentage for every APC group on the basis of each group's unadjusted copayment amount and its payment rate after the payment rate is adjusted in accordance with § 419.32.

(c) To determine payment amounts due for a service paid under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system, CMS makes the following calculations:

(1) Makes the wage index adjustment in accordance with § 419.43.

(2) Subtracts the amount of the applicable Part B deductible provided under § 410.160 of this chapter.

(3) Multiplies the remainder by the program payment percentage for the group to determine the preliminary Medicare program payment amount.

(4) Subtracts the program payment amount from the amount determined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to determine the copayment amount.

(i) The copayment amount for an APC cannot exceed the amount of the inpatient hospital deductible, established in accordance with § 409.82 of this chapter, for that year. For purposes of this paragraph (c)-

(A) Effective for drugs and biologicals furnished on or after January 1, 2001, the copayment amount for multiple APCs for a single drug or biological furnished on the same day will be aggregated and treated as the copayment amount for one APC.

(B) Effective for drugs and biologicals furnished on or after July 1, 2001, the copayment amount for the APC or APCs for a drug or biological furnished on the same day will be aggregated with the copayment amount for the APC that reflects the administration of the drug or biological furnished on that day and treated as the copayment amount for one APC.

(ii) Effective for services furnished from April 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001, the national unadjusted coinsurance rate for an APC cannot exceed 57 percent of the prospective payment rate for that APC.

(iii) The national unadjusted coinsurance rate for an APC cannot exceed 55 percent in calendar years 2002 and 2003; 50 percent in calendar year 2004; 45 percent in calendar year 2005; and 40 percent in calendar year 2006 and thereafter.

(iv) The copayment amount is computed as if the adjustment under §§ 419.43(d) and (e) (and any adjustments made under § 419.43(f) in relation to these adjustments) and § 419.43(h) had not been paid.

(5) Adds the amount by which the copayment amount would have exceeded the inpatient hospital deductible for that year to the preliminary Medicare program payment amount determined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section to determine the final Medicare program payment amount.
