
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 419 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR HOSPITAL OUTPATIENT DEPARTMENT SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payments to Hospitals
###### ยง 419.43 Adjustments to national program payment and beneficiary copayment amounts.
####### Cost-to-charge ratios for calculating charges adjusted to cost.

(5)For hospital outpatient services (or groups of services) as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section performed on or after January 1, 2009-

(i) CMS may specify an alternative to the overall ancillary cost-to-charge ratio otherwise applicable under paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section. A hospital may also request that its Medicare contractor use a different (higher or lower) cost-to-charge ratio based on substantial evidence presented by the hospital. Such a request must be approved by the CMS.

(ii) The overall ancillary cost-to-charge ratio applied at the time a claim is processed is based on either the most recent settled cost report or the most recent tentative settled cost report, whichever is from the latest cost reporting period.

(iii) The Medicare contractor may use a statewide average cost-to-charge ratio if it is unable to determine an accurate overall ancillary cost-to-charge ratio for a hospital in one of the following circumstances:

(A) A new hospital that has not yet submitted its first Medicare cost report. (For purposes of this paragraph, a new hospital is defined as an entity that has not accepted assignment of an existing hospital's provider agreement in accordance with ยง 489.18 of this chapter.)

(B) A hospital whose overall ancillary cost-to-charge ratio is in excess of 3 standard deviations above the corresponding national geometric mean. This mean is recalculated annually by CMS and published in the annual notice of prospective payment rates issued in accordance with ยง 419.50(a).

(C) Any other hospital for whom accurate data to calculate an overall ancillary cost-to-charge ratio are not available to the Medicare contractor.
