
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 37 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF COAL MINERS
##### Subpart - Spirometry Testing
###### ยง 37.95 Specifications for performing spirometry tests.
####### Spirometer specifications.,see,see,see

(b)Spirometry testing equipment must meet the 2005 ATS/ERS Standardisation of Spirometry specifications for spirometer accuracy and precision and real-time display size and content, pp. 331-333, including Table 2 on p. 322 and Table 6 on p. 332 (incorporated by reference,ยง 37.98). Facilities must make available for inspection written verification from a third-party testing laboratory (not the manufacturer or distributor) that the model of spirometer being used has successfully passed its validation checks as required by the Standardization of Spirometry; 1994 Update protocol, Appendix B pp. 1126-1134, including Table C1 (incorporated by reference,ยง 37.98). Facilities may request such documentation from spirometer manufacturers. For each forced expiratory maneuver submitted for a miner under this part, the spirometry data file must retain a record of the parameters defined in the 2005 ATS/ERS Standardisation of Spirometry, p. 335 including Table 8 (incorporated by reference,ยง 37.98). Spirometers that provide electronic transfer of spirometry data results files must use the format, content, and data structure specified by the 2005 ATS/ERS Standardisation of Spirometry, p. 335, or a procedure for data transfer that is approved by NIOSH.
