
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 419 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR HOSPITAL OUTPATIENT DEPARTMENT SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Payments to Hospitals
###### ยง 419.46 Participation, data submission, and validation requirements under the Hospital Outpatient Quality Reporting (OQR) Program.
####### Validation of Hospital OQR Program data

(f). CMS may validate one or more measures selected under section 1833(t)(17)(C) of the Act by reviewing documentation of patient encounters submitted by selected participating hospitals.

(1) Upon written request by CMS or its contractor, a hospital must submit to CMS supporting medical record documentation that the hospital used for purposes of data submission under the program. The specific sample that a hospital must submit will be identified in the written request. A hospital must submit the supporting medical record documentation to CMS or its contractor within 30 days of the date identified on the written request, in the form and manner specified in the written request.

(2) A hospital meets the validation requirement with respect to a calendar year if it achieves at least a 75-percent reliability score, as determined by CMS.

(3) CMS will select a random sample of 450 hospitals for validation purposes, and will select an additional 50 hospitals for validation purposes based on the following criteria:

(i) The hospital fails the validation requirement that applies to the previous year's payment determination; or

(ii) The hospital has an outlier value for a measure based on the data it submits. An "outlier value" is a measure value that is greater than 5 standard deviations from the mean of the measure values for other hospitals, and indicates a poor score; or

(iii) Any hospital that has not been randomly selected for validation in any of the previous 3 years; or

(iv) Any hospital that passed validation in the previous year but had a two-tailed confidence interval that included 75 percent; or

(v) Any hospital with a two-tailed confidence interval that is less than 75 percent, and that had less than four quarters of data due to receiving an extraordinary circumstance exception (ECE) for one or more quarters.

(4) Hospitals that are selected and receive a score for validation of chart-abstracted measures may request an educational review in order to better understand the results within 30 calendar days from the date the validation results are made available. If the results of an educational review indicate that a hospital's medical records selected for validation for chart-abstracted measures was incorrectly scored, the corrected quarterly validation score will be used to compute the hospital's final validation score at the end of the calendar year.
