
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 420 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICARE
##### Subpart C - Disclosure of Ownership and Control Information
###### ยง 420.206 Disclosure of persons having ownership, financial, or control interest.
####### Information that must be disclosed.

(a)A disclosing entity must submit the following information in the manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) The name and address of each person with an ownership or control interest in the entity or in any subcontractor in which the entity has direct or indirect ownership interest totaling 5 percent or more. In the case of a part B supplier that is a joint venture, ownership of 5 percent or more of any company participating in the joint venture should be reported. Any physician who has been issued a Unique Physician Identification Number by the Medicare program must provide this number.

(2) Whether any of the persons named, in compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, is related to another as spouse, parent, child, or sibling.

(3) The name of any other disclosing entity in which any person with an ownership or control interest, or who is a managing employee in the reporting disclosing entity, has, or has had in the previous three-year period, an ownership or control interest or position as managing employee, and the nature of the relationship with the other disclosing entity. If any of these other disclosing entities has been convicted of a criminal offense or received a civil monetary or other administrative sanction related to participation in Medicare, Medicaid, title V (Maternal and Child Health) or title XX (Social Services) programs, such as penalties assessments and exclusions under sections 1128, 1128A or 1128B of the Act, the disclosing entity must also provide that information.
