
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 420 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICARE
##### Subpart D - Access to Books, Documents, and Records of Subcontractors
###### ยง 420.304 Procedures for obtaining access to books, documents, and records.
####### Subcontractor response to a request for access to books, documents, and records.

(b)(1) The subcontractor will have 30 days from the date of a written request for access to books, documents, and records to make them available in accordance with the request.

(2) If the subcontractor believes the request is inadequate because it does not fully meet one or more of the required elements in paragraph (a) of this section, the subcontractor must advise the requesting organization of the additional information needed.

(i) The subcontractor must notify the requesting organization within 20 days of the date of the request that it was improperly completed.

(ii) The subcontractor must make the books, documents, and records available within 20 days after the date of the requesting organization's response.

(3) If the subcontractor believes, for good cause, that the requested books, documents, and records cannot be made available as requested with the 30-day period under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the subcontractor may request an extension of time within which to comply with the request from the requesting organization. The requesting organization may, at its discretion, grant the request for an extension, in whole or in part, for good cause shown.

(4) The subcontractor must make the books, documents, and records available during its regular business hours for inspection, audit, and reproduction.

(5) If HHS asks the subcontractor to reproduce books, documents, and records, HHS will pay the reasonable cost of reproduction. However, if the subcontractor reproduces books, documents, and records as a means of making them available, the subcontractor must bear the cost of the reproduction and no Medicare reimbursement will be made for that purpose.

(6) HHS reserves the right to examine the originals of any requested contracts, books, documents, and records, if they exist.
