
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 420 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICARE
##### Subpart E - Rewards for Information Relating to Medicare Fraud and Abuse, and Establishment of a Program to Collect Suggestions for Improving Medicare Program Efficiency and to Reward Suggesters for Monetary Savings
###### ยง 420.405 Rewards for information relating to Medicare fraud and abuse.
####### Amount and payment of reward.

(e)(1) In determining whether it will pay a reward and, if so, the amount of the reward, CMS takes into account all relevant factors, including the significance of the information furnished in relation to the ultimate resolution of the case and the recovery of Medicare funds.

(2) The amount of a reward represents what CMS considers to be adequate compensation in the particular case, not to exceed 10 percent of the overpayments recovered in the case or $1,000, whichever is less.

(3) If more than one person is eligible to receive a reward in a particular case, CMS allocates the total reward amount (not to exceed 10 percent of the overpayments recovered in that case or $1,000, whichever is less) among the participants.

(4) CMS bases rewards only on recovered Medicare payments and not on amounts collected as penalties or fines.

(5) CMS makes payments as promptly as the circumstances of the case permit, but not until it has collected all Medicare overpayments, fines, and penalties.

(6) No person may make any offer or promise or otherwise bind CMS or HHS with respect to the payment of any reward under this section or the amount of the reward.
