
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 420 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICARE
##### Subpart E - Rewards for Information Relating to Medicare Fraud and Abuse, and Establishment of a Program to Collect Suggestions for Improving Medicare Program Efficiency and to Reward Suggesters for Monetary Savings
###### ยง 420.405 Rewards for information relating to Medicare fraud and abuse.
####### Special circumstances.

(2)(i) If the individual has relocated to an unknown address, the individual or his or her legal representative may claim the reward by contacting CMS within 1 year from the date on which CMS first attempted to notify the individual about a reward. CMS does not consider the individual or his or her legal representative eligible for a reward more than 1 year after the date on which it first attempted to give notice. CMS does not pay interest on rewards that are not immediately claimed.

(ii) If the individual has become incapacitated or has died, an executor, administrator, or other legal representative may claim the reward on behalf of the individual or the individual's estate. The claimant must submit certified copies of the letters testamentary, letters of administration, or other similar evidence to show his or her authority to claim the reward. The claim must be filed within 1 year from the date on which CMS first gave or attempted to give notice of the reward.
