
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 421 - MEDICARE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart B - Intermediaries
###### ยง 421.100 Intermediary functions.
####### Additional functions.

(b)The contract may include any or all of the following functions:

(1) Any or all of the program integrity functions described in ยง 421.304, provided the intermediary is continuing those functions under an agreement entered into under section 1816 of the Act that was in effect on August 21, 1996, and they do not duplicate work being performed under a Medicare integrity program contract.

(2) Undertaking to adjust incorrect payments and recover overpayments when it is determined that an overpayment was made.

(3) Furnishing to CMS timely information and reports that CMS requests in order to carry out its responsibilities in the administration of the Medicare program.

(4) Establishing and maintaining procedures as approved by CMS for the redetermination of payment determinations.

(5) Maintaining records and making available to CMS the records necessary for verification of payments and for other related purposes.

(6) Upon inquiry, assisting individuals for matters pertaining to an intermediary agreement.

(7) Serving as a channel of communication to and from CMS of information, instructions, and other material as necessary for the effective and efficient performance of an intermediary agreement.

(8) Undertaking other functions as mutually agreed to by CMS and the intermediary.
