
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 421 - MEDICARE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart C - Carriers
###### ยง 421.210 Designations of regional carriers to process claims for durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies.
####### Carrier designation.

(e)(1) Each carrier designated a regional carrier must process claims for items listed in paragraph (b) of this section for beneficiaries whose permanent residence is within that carrier's region as designated under paragraph (c) of this section. When processing the claims, the carrier must use the payment rates applicable for the State of residence of the beneficiary, including a qualified Railroad Retirement beneficiary. A beneficiary's permanent residence is the address at which he or she intends to spend 6 months or more of the calendar year.

(2) CMS notifies affected Medicare beneficiaries and suppliers when it designates a regional carrier (in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section) to process DMEPOS claims (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) for all Medicare beneficiaries residing in their respective regions (as designated under paragraph (c) of this section).

(3) CMS may contract for the performance of National Supplier Clearinghouse functions through a contract amendment to one of the DME regional carrier contracts or through a contract amendment to any Medicare carrier contract under ยง 421.200.

(4) CMS periodically recompetes the contracts for the DME regional carriers. CMS also periodically recompetes the National Supplier Clearinghouse function.
