
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 421 - MEDICARE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart C - Carriers
###### ยง 421.214 Advance payments to suppliers furnishing items or services under Part B.
####### Requirements for carriers.

(f)(1) A carrier must notify a supplier as soon as it is determined that payment will not be made in a timely manner, and an advance payment option is to be offered to the supplier.

(i) Unless otherwise qualified under paragraph (j) of this section, a contractor must calculate an advance payment for a particular claim at no more than 80 percent of the anticipated payment for that claim based upon the historical assigned claims payment data as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section for claims paid to the supplier. For suppliers qualifying and approved for advance payments under paragraph (j) of this section, a contractor may calculate an advance payment for a particular claim at up to 100 percent of the anticipated payment for that claim based upon the historical assigned claims payment data as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section for claims paid to the supplier.

(ii) "Historical data" are defined as a representative 90-day assigned claims payment trend within the most recent 180-day experience before the system malfunction.

(iii) Based on this amount and the number of claims pending for the supplier, the carrier must determine and issue advance payments.

(iv) If historical data are not available or if backlogged claims cannot be identified, the carrier must determine and issue advance payments based on some other methodology approved by CMS.

(v) Advance payments can be made no more frequently than once every 2 weeks to a supplier.

(2) Generally, a supplier will not receive advance payments for more assigned claims than were paid, on a daily average, for the 90-day period before the system malfunction.

(3) A carrier must recover an advance payment by applying it against the amount due on the claim on which the advance was made. If the advance payment exceeds the Medicare payment amount, the carrier must apply the unadjusted balance of the advance payment against future Medicare payments due the supplier.

(4) In accordance with CMS instructions, a carrier must maintain a financial system of data in accordance with the Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards for tracking each advance payment and its recoupment.
