
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 37 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF COAL MINERS
##### Subpart - General Requirements
###### § 37.100 Coal mine operator plan for medical examinations.
####### see

(ii) One or more alternate non-mobile approved medical examination facilities for the reexamination of miners and for the mandatory examination of miners when necessary (§§ 37.3(b) and 37.92(b)), or an assurance that the mobile facility will return to the location(s) specified in the plan as frequently as necessary to provide for medical surveillance examinations in accordance with these regulations.

(iii) The name and location of each change house at which examinations will be given. For mines with more than one change house, the examinations must be given at each change house or at a change house located at a convenient place for each miner.

(6) Assurances that:

(i) The operator will not solicit a physician's spirometric, radiographic or other findings concerning any miner employed by the operator;

(ii) Instructions have been given to the person(s) giving the examinations that duplicate spirograms or copies of spirograms (including copies of electronic files) and radiographs or copies of radiographs (including, for digital radiographs, copies of electronic files) will not be made, and to the extent that it is technically feasible all related electronic files must be permanently deleted from the facility records or rendered permanently inaccessible following the confirmed transfer of such data to NIOSH, and that (except as may be necessary for the purpose of this part) the physician's spirometric, radiographic and other findings, as well as the occupational history and respiratory assessment information obtained from a miner will not be disclosed in a manner that would permit identification of the individual miner with his or her information; and

(iii) The spirometry and radiographic examinations will be made at no charge to the miner.

(c) Operators may provide for alternate spirometry or radiography facilities in plans submitted to NIOSH for approval.

(d) The change of operators of any mine operating under a plan approved pursuant to § 37.101(a) must not affect the plan of the operator which has transferred responsibility for the mine. Every plan is subject to revision in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) The operator must advise NIOSH of any change in its plan. Each change in an approved plan is subject to the same review and approval as the originally approved plan.

(f) The operator must promptly display in a visible location on the bulletin board at the mine its proposed plan or proposed change in a NIOSH-approved plan when it is submitted to NIOSH. The proposed plan or change in a NIOSH-approved plan must remain posted in a visible location on the bulletin board until NIOSH either grants or denies approval at which time the approved plan or denial of approval must be permanently posted. In the case of an operator who does not have a bulletin board, such as an operator that is a contractor, the operator must otherwise notify its employees of the examination arrangements. Upon request, the contractor must show NIOSH written evidence that its employees have been notified.
