
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 421 - MEDICARE CONTRACTING
##### Subpart E - Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs)
###### ยง 421.404 Assignment of providers and suppliers to MACs.
####### Assignment of providers to MACs.

(b)(1) Providers enroll with and receive Medicare payment and other Medicare services from the MAC contracted by CMS to administer claims for the Medicare benefit category applicable to the provider's covered services for the geographic locale in which the provider is physically located.

(2) Qualified chain providers may request and receive an exception from the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section from CMS. Upon CMS'approval, a qualified chain provider may enroll with and bill on behalf of the eligible providers under its common ownership or common control to the MAC contracted by CMS to administer claims for the Medicare benefit category applicable to the eligible providers'covered services for the geographic locale in which the qualified chain provider's home office is physically located.

(3) As MAC contractors become available, qualified chain providers, granted approval by CMS to enroll with and bill a single intermediary on behalf of their eligible member providers prior to October 1, 2005, will be assigned at an appropriate time to the MAC contracted by CMS to administer claims for the applicable Medicare benefit category for the geographic locale in which the chain provider's home office is physically located. The qualified chain provider will not need to request an exception to the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section in order for this assignment to take effect.

(4) CMS may grant an exception to the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section to eligible providers that are not under the common ownership or common control of a qualified chain provider, as well as ineligible providers, only if CMS finds the exception will support the implementation of MACs or will serve some other compelling interest of the Medicare program.
