
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 422.2 Definitions.
####### Institutionalized

means, for the purposes of defining a special needs individual and for the open enrollment period for institutionalized individuals at ยง 422.62(a)(4), an MA eligible individual who continuously resides or is expected to continuously reside for 90 days or longer in one of the following long-term care facility settings:

(1) Skilled nursing facility (SNF) as defined in section 1819 of the Act (Medicare).

(2) Nursing facility (NF) as defined in section 1919 of the Act (Medicaid).

(3) Intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities as defined in section 1905(d) of the Act.

(4) Psychiatric hospital or unit as defined in section 1861(f) of the Act.

(5) Rehabilitation hospital or unit as defined in section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act.

(6) Long-term care hospital as defined in section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act.

(7) Hospital which has an agreement under section 1883 of the Act (a swing-bed hospital).

(8) Subject to CMS approval, a facility that is not listed in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition but meets both of the following:

(i) Furnishes similar long-term, healthcare services that are covered under Medicare Part A, Medicare Part B, or Medicaid; and

(ii) Whose residents have similar needs and healthcare status as residents of one or more facilities listed in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition.
