
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 422.2 Definitions.
####### Preclusion list

means a CMS compiled list of individuals and entities that-

(1) Meet all of the following requirements:

(i) The individual or entity is currently revoked from Medicare for a reason other than that stated in ยง 424.535(a)(3) of this chapter.

(ii) The individual or entity is currently under a reenrollment bar under ยง 424.535(c).

(iii) CMS determines that the underlying conduct that led to the revocation is detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program. In making this determination under this paragraph (1)(iii), CMS considers the following factors:

(A) The seriousness of the conduct underlying the individual's or entity's revocation.

(B) The degree to which the individual's or entity's conduct could affect the integrity of the Medicare program.

(C) Any other evidence that CMS deems relevant to its determination; or

(2) Meet both of the following requirements:

(i) The individual or entity has engaged in behavior, other than that described in ยง 424.535(a)(3) of this chapter, for which CMS could have revoked the individual or entity to the extent applicable had they been enrolled in Medicare.

(ii) CMS determines that the underlying conduct that would have led to the revocation is detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program. In making this determination under this paragraph (2)(ii), CMS considers the following factors:

(A) The seriousness of the conduct involved.

(B) The degree to which the individual's or entity's conduct could affect the integrity of the Medicare program; and

(C) Any other evidence that CMS deems relevant to its determination; or

(3) The individual or entity, regardless of whether they are or were enrolled in Medicare, has been convicted of a felony under Federal or State law within the previous 10 years that CMS deems detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program. Factors that CMS considers in making such a determination under this paragraph (3) are-

(i) The severity of the offense;

(ii) When the offense occurred; and

(iii) Any other information that CMS deems relevant to its determination.
