
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 422.4 Types of MA plans.
####### A coordinated care plan.

(1)A coordinated care plan is a plan that includes a network of providers that are under contract or arrangement with the organization to deliver the benefit package approved by CMS.

(i) The network is approved by CMS to ensure that all applicable requirements are met, including access and availability, service area, and quality.

(ii) Coordinated care plans may include mechanisms to control utilization, such as referrals from a gatekeeper for an enrollee to receive services within the plan, and financial arrangements that offer incentives to providers to furnish high quality and cost-effective care.

(iii) Coordinated care plans include plans offered by any of the following:

(A) Health maintenance organizations (HMOs);

(B) Provider-sponsored organizations (PSOs), subject to paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section.

(C) Regional or local preferred provider organizations (PPOs) as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.

(D) Other network plans (except PFFS plans).

(iv) A specialized MA plan for special needs individuals (SNP) includes any type of coordinated care plan that meets CMS's SNP requirements and exclusively enrolls special needs individuals as defined by ยง 422.2 of this subpart. All MA plans wishing to offer a SNP will be required to be approved by the National Commission on Quality Assurance (NCQA) effective January 1, 2012. This approval process applies to existing SNPs as well as new SNPs joining the program. All SNPs must submit their model of care (MOC) to CMS for NCQA evaluation and approval as per CMS guidance.

(v) A PPO plan is a plan that-

(A) Has a network of providers that have agreed to a contractually specified reimbursement for covered benefits with the organization offering the plan;

(B) Provides for reimbursement for all covered benefits regardless of whether the benefits are provided within the network of providers;

(C) Only for purposes of quality assurance requirements in ยง 422.152(e), is offered by an organization that is not licensed or organized under State law as an HMO; and

(D) Does not permit prior notification for out-of-network services-that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the out-of-network provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the PPO plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from an out-of-network provider.

(vi) In accordance with ยง 422.370, CMS does not waive the State licensure requirement for organizations seeking to offer a PSO.
