
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility, Election, and Enrollment
###### § 422.50 Eligibility to elect an MA plan.

For this subpart, all references to an MA plan include MA-PD and both MA local and MA regional plans, as defined in § 422.2 unless specifically noted otherwise.

(a) An individual is eligible to elect an MA plan if he or she meets all of the following:;

(1) Is entitled to Medicare under Part A and enrolled in Part B (except that an individual entitled only to Part B and who was enrolled in an HMO or CMP with a risk contract under part 417 of this chapter on December 31, 1998 may continue to be enrolled in the MA organization as an MA plan enrollee).

(2) For coverage before January 1, 2021, has not been medically determined to have end-stage renal disease, except that-

(i) An individual who develops end-stage renal disease while enrolled in an MA plan or in a health plan offered by the MA organization is eligible to elect an MA plan offered by that organization;

(ii) An individual with end-stage renal disease whose enrollment in an MA plan was terminated or discontinued after December 31, 1998, because CMS or the MA organization terminated the MA organization's contract for the plan or discontinued the plan in the area in which the individual resides, is eligible to elect another MA plan. If the plan so elected is later terminated or discontinued in the area in which the individual resides, he or she may elect another MA plan; and

(iii) An individual with end-stage renal disease may elect an MA special needs plan as defined in § 422.2, as long as that plan has opted to enroll ESRD individuals.

(3) Meets either of the following residency requirements:

(i) Resides in the service area of the MA plan.

(ii) Resides outside of the service area of the MA plan and is enrolled in a health plan offered by the MA organization during the month immediately preceding the month in which the individual is entitled to both Medicare Part A and Part B, provided that an MA organization chooses to offer this option and that CMS determines that all applicable MA access requirements of § 422.112 are met for that individual through the MA plan's established provider network. The MA organization must furnish the same benefits to these enrollees as to enrollees who reside in the service area;

(4) Has been a member of an Employer Group Health Plan (EGHP) that includes the elected MA plan, even if the individual lives outside of the MA plan service area, provided that an MA organization chooses to offer this option and that CMS determines that all applicable MA access requirements at § 422.112 are met for that individual through the MA plan's established provider network. The MA organization must furnish the same benefits to all enrollees, regardless of whether they reside in the service area.

(5) Completes and signs an election form or completes another CMS-approved election method offered by the MA organization and provides information required for enrollment.

(6) Agrees to abide by the rules of the MA organization after they are disclosed to him or her in connection with the election process.

(7) Is a United States citizen or is lawfully present in the United States as determined in 8 CFR 1.3.

(b) An MA eligible individual may not be enrolled in more than one MA plan at any given time.
