
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 422.6 Cost-sharing in enrollment-related costs.
####### Assessment methodology.

(f)(1) The amount of the applicable portion of the user fee each MA organization and PDP sponsor must pay is assessed as a percentage of the total Medicare payments to each organization. CMS determines the annual assessment percentage rate separately for MA organizations and for PDPs using the following formula:

(i) The assessment formula for MA organizations (including MA-PD plans):

C divided by A times B where-

A is the total estimated January payments to all MA organizations subject to the assessment;

B is the 9-month (January through September) assessment period; and

C is the total fiscal year MA organization user fee assessment amount determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(ii) The assessment formula for PDPs: C divided by A times B where-A is the total estimated January payments to all PDP sponsors subject to the assessment; B is the 9-month (January through September) assessment period; and C is the total fiscal year PDP sponsor's user fee assessment amount determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) CMS determines each MA organization's and PDP sponsor's pro rata share of the annual fee on the basis of the organization's calculated monthly payment amount during the 9 consecutive months beginning with January. CMS calculates each organization's monthly pro rata share by multiplying the established percentage rate by the total monthly calculated Medicare payment amount to the organization as recorded in CMS's payment system on the first day of the month.

(3) CMS deducts the organization's fee from the amount of Federal funds otherwise payable to the MA organization or PDP sponsor for that month.

(4) If assessments reach the amount authorized for the year before the end of September, CMS discontinues assessment.

(5) If there are delays in determining the amount of the annual aggregate fees specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, or the fee percentage rate specified in paragraph (f)(2), CMS may adjust the assessment time period and the fee percentage amount.
