
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Care and Examinations
#### PART 37 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF COAL MINERS
##### Subpart - Autopsies
###### ยง 37.204 Procedure for obtaining payment.

(a) Prior to performing an autopsy, the pathologist must obtain written authorization from NIOSH and agreement regarding payment amount for services specified in ยง 37.202(a) by submitting an Authorization for Payment of Autopsy (form CDC 2.19).

(1) NIOSH will maintain up-to-date information about the availability of payments on its website.

(2) After receiving a completed authorization request form, NIOSH will reply in writing with an authorization determination within 3 working days.

(b) After performance of an autopsy, each claim for payment under this subpart must be submitted to NIOSH and must include:

(1) An invoice (in duplicate) on the pathologist's letterhead or billhead indicating the date of autopsy, the amount of the claim, and a signed statement that the pathologist (or the pathologist's employer, the organization in which the pathologist practices, or another entity receiving compensation on behalf of or for services provided by the pathologist) is not receiving any other specific compensation for the autopsy from the miner's surviving spouse or next-of-kin, the estate of the miner, or any other source.

(2) Completed Consent, Release and History Form for Autopsy (CDC/NIOSH (M)2.6). This form may be completed with the assistance of the pathologist, attending physician, family physician, or any other responsible person who can provide reliable information.

(3) Report of autopsy:

(i) The information, slides, and blocks of tissue required by this subpart.

(ii) Clinical abstract of terminal illness and other data that the pathologist determines is relevant.

(iii) Final summary, including final anatomical diagnoses, indicating presence or absence of simple and complicated pneumoconiosis, and correlation with clinical history if indicated.
