
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility, Election, and Enrollment
###### ยง 422.66 Coordination of enrollment and disenrollment through MA organizations.
####### Maintenance of enrollment.

(e)(1) An individual who has made an election under this section is considered to have continued to have made that election until either of the following, which ever occurs first:

(i) The individual changes the election under this section.

(ii) The elected MA plan is discontinued or no longer serves the area in which the individual resides, as provided under ยง 422.74(b)(3), or the organization does not offer or the individual does not elect the option of continuing enrollment, as provided under ยง 422.54.

(2) An individual enrolled in an MA plan that becomes an MA-PD plan on January 1, 2006, will be deemed to have elected to enroll in that MA-PD plan.

(3) An individual enrolled in an MA plan that, as of December 31, 2005, offers any prescription drug coverage will be deemed to have elected an MA-PD plan offered by the same organization as of January 1, 2006.

(4) An individual who has elected an MA plan that does not provide prescription drug coverage will not be deemed to have elected an MA-PD plan and will remain enrolled in the MA plan as provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(5) An individual enrolled in an MA-PD plan as of December 31 of a year is deemed to have elected to remain enrolled in that plan on January 1 of the following year.
