
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.100 General requirements.
####### CMS calculation of actuarially equivalent copayment limits.

(ii)As feasible and appropriate to carry out program purposes, CMS calculates copayment limits for basic benefits in accordance with paragraphs (f)(6)(i) and (iii) and (j)(1) of this section. Beginning January 1, 2023, unless specified otherwise in paragraphs (f)(6) and (j)(1) of this section, CMS calculates these copayment limits at an actuarially equivalent value to the cost sharing standard as follows:

(A) Using Medicare FFS data projections, as defined in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, for the applicable year and service category.

(B) Using patient utilization information from MA encounter data, in addition to the Medicare FFS data projections (including cost and utilization data), if available and where appropriate to consider utilization differences between Medicare FFS beneficiaries and MA enrollees to reach a value that most closely reflects an actuarially equivalent copayment for the benefit and beneficiary population.

(C) Selecting a particular approach to calculate an actuarially equivalent copayment value in situations where there may be multiple or a range of actuarially equivalent copayment values for a service category in order to carry out program purposes, including: Setting copayment limits that most closely reflect an actuarially equivalent copayment for the benefit and beneficiary population, protecting against discriminatory cost sharing, and avoiding unnecessary fluctuations in cost sharing that may confuse beneficiaries.

(D) Applying the actuarially equivalent copayment transition in paragraph (f)(8) of this section.

(E) Applying rounding rules in paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section.
