
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.100 General requirements.
####### Cost sharing and actuarial equivalence standards for basic benefits,Specific benefits for which cost sharing may not exceed cost sharing under original Medicare.,General rule.

(j)-(1)(i)For each year beginning on or after January 1, 2023, in-network cost sharing established by an MA plan for the basic benefits listed in this paragraph may not exceed the cost sharing required under original Medicare. When an MA plan uses coinsurance, the coinsurance must not exceed the coinsurance charged in original Medicare. When an MA plan uses copayments, the copayment must not exceed the actuarially equivalent value calculated using the rules in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section. The benefits listed in this paragraph are as follows:

(A) Chemotherapy administration services to include chemotherapy/radiation drugs and radiation therapy integral to the treatment regimen.

(B) Renal dialysis services as defined at section 1881(b)(14)(B) of the Act.

(C) Skilled nursing care, defined as services provided during a covered stay in a skilled nursing facility during the period for which cost sharing would apply under original Medicare, when the MA plan establishes the mandatory MOOP type; when the MA plan establishes the lower MOOP type, the cost sharing must not be greater than $20 per day for the first 20 days of a SNF stay; when the MA plan establishes the intermediate MOOP type, the cost sharing must not be greater than $10 per day for the first 20 days of a SNF stay.
