
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.100 General requirements.
####### Actuarially equivalent cost sharing evaluation for all basic benefits and specific categories of basic benefits in the aggregate.

(2)For each year beginning on or after January 1, 2023, an MA plan's total cost sharing for all basic benefits, excluding out of network benefits covered by a regional MA plan, must not exceed cost sharing for those benefits in original Medicare on a per member per month actuarially equivalent basis.

(i) MA plans must have cost sharing for the following specific benefit categories that does not exceed the cost sharing for those benefit categories in original Medicare on a per member per month actuarially equivalent basis:

(A) Inpatient hospital acute and psychiatric services, defined as services provided during a covered inpatient stay during the period for which cost sharing would apply under original Medicare.

(B) Durable medical equipment (DME).

(C) Drugs and biologics covered under Part B of original Medicare.

(D) Skilled nursing care, defined as services provided during a covered stay in a skilled nursing facility during the period for which cost sharing would apply under original Medicare.

(ii) CMS may extend flexibility for MA plans when evaluating compliance with the requirements in paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section regarding actuarial equivalent cost sharing for all basic benefits and specific categories of basic benefits to the extent that it is actuarially justifiable provided that the MA plan's cost sharing is based on generally accepted actuarial principles and practices (consistent with paragraph (f)(7) of this section), supporting documentation included in the bid, and the MA plan's cost sharing for specific service categories otherwise satisfies applicable cost sharing standards.
