
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### § 422.100 General requirements.
####### Cost sharing for in-network preventive services.

(k)MA organizations may not charge deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance for in-network Medicare-covered preventive services (as defined in § 410.152(l)).

(l) Coverage of DME. MA organizations-

(1) Must cover and ensure enrollees have access to all categories of DME covered under Part B; and

(2) May, within specific categories of DME, limit coverage to certain DME brands, items, and supplies of preferred manufacturers provided the MA organization ensures all of the following:

(i) Its contracts with DME suppliers ensure that enrollees have access to all DME brands, items, and supplies of preferred manufacturers.

(ii) Its enrollees have access to all medically-necessary DME brands, items, and supplies of non-preferred manufacturers.

(iii) At the enrollees' request, it provides for an appropriate transition process for new enrollees during the first 90 days of their coverage under its MA plan, during which time the MA organization will do the following:

(A) Ensure the provision of a transition supply of DME brands, items, and supplies of non-preferred manufacturers.

(B) Provide for the repair of DME brands, items, and supplies of non-preferred manufacturers.

(iv) It makes no negative changes to its DME brands, items, and supplies of preferred manufacturers during the plan year.

(v) It treats denials of DME brands, items, and supplies of non-preferred manufacturers as organization determinations subject to § 422.566.

(vi) It discloses DME coverage limitations and beneficiary appeal rights in the case of a denial of a DME brand, item, or supply of a non-preferred manufacturer as part of the description of benefits required under § 422.111(b)(2) and § 422.111(h).

(vii) It provides full coverage, without limitation on brand and manufacturer, to all DME categories or subcategories annually determined by CMS to require full coverage.
