
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.101 Requirements relating to basic benefits.
####### Special needs plan model of care.

(f)(1) MA organizations offering special needs plans (SNP) must implement an evidence-based model of care with appropriate networks of providers and specialists designed to meet the specialized needs of the plan's targeted enrollees. The MA organization must, with respect to each individual enrolled, do all of the following:

(i) Conduct a comprehensive initial health risk assessment of the individual's physical, psychosocial, and functional needs as well as annual health risk reassessment, using a comprehensive risk assessment tool that CMS may review during oversight activities, and ensure that the results from the initial assessment and annual reassessment conducted for each individual enrolled in the plan are addressed in the individuals' individualized care plan as required under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section. Beginning in 2024, the comprehensive risk assessment tool must include one or more questions from a list of screening instruments specified by CMS in sub-regulatory guidance on each of the following domains:

(A) Housing stability;

(B) Food security; and

(C) Access to transportation.

(ii) Develop and implement a comprehensive individualized plan of care through an interdisciplinary care team in consultation with the beneficiary, as feasible, identifying goals and objectives including measurable outcomes as well as specific services and benefits to be provided.

(iii) In the management of care, use an interdisciplinary team that includes a team of providers with demonstrated expertise and training, and, as applicable, training in a defined role appropriate to their licensure in treating individuals similar to the targeted population of the plan.

(iv) Provide, on at least an annual basis, beginning within the first 12 months of enrollment, as feasible and with the individual's consent, for face-to-face encounters for the delivery of health care or care management or care coordination services and be between each enrollee and a member of the enrollee's interdisciplinary team or the plan's case management and coordination staff, or contracted plan healthcare providers. A face-for-face encounter must be either in person or through a visual, real-time, interactive telehealth encounter.

(2) MA organizations offering SNPs must also develop and implement the following model of care components to assure an effective care management structure:

(i) Target one of the three SNP populations defined in ยง 422.2 of this part.

(ii) Have appropriate staff (employed, contracted, or non-contracted) trained on the SNP plan model of care to coordinate and/or deliver all services and benefits.

(iii) Coordinate the delivery of care across healthcare settings, providers, and services to assure continuity of care.

(iv) Coordinate the delivery of specialized benefits and services that meet the needs of the most vulnerable beneficiaries among the three target special needs populations as defined in ยง 422.2 of this part, including frail/disabled beneficiaries and beneficiaries near the end of life.

(v) Coordinate communication among plan personnel, providers, and beneficiaries.

(3)(i) All MA organizations wishing to offer or continue to offer a SNP will be required to be approved by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) effective January 1, 2012 and subsequent years. All SNPs must submit their model of care (MOC) to CMS for NCQA evaluation and approval in accordance with CMS guidance.

(ii) As part of the evaluation and approval of the SNP model of care, NCQA must evaluate whether goals were fulfilled from the previous model of care.

(A) Plans must provide relevant information pertaining to the MOC's goals as well as appropriate data pertaining to the fulfillment the previous MOC's goals.

(B) Plans submitting an initial model of care must provide relevant information pertaining to the MOC's goals for review and approval.

(C) If the SNP model of care did not fulfill the previous MOC's goals, the plan must indicate in the MOC submission how it will achieve or revise the goals for the plan's next MOC.

(iii) Each element of the model of care of a plan must meet a minimum benchmark score of 50 percent, and a plan's model of care will only be approved if each element of the model of care meets the minimum benchmark.
