
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.111 Disclosure requirements.
####### Reporting cycles for explanation of benefits.

(4)MA organizations must send an explanation of benefits on either a monthly cycle or a quarterly cycle with per-claim notifications.

(i) A monthly explanation of benefits must include all claims processed in the prior month and, for each claim, the information in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section as of the last day of the prior month.

(A) The monthly explanation of benefits must be sent before the end of each month that follows the month a claim was filed.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) A quarterly explanation of benefits must include all claims processed in the quarter and, for each claim, the information in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section as of the last day of the quarter; a per-claim notification must include all claims processed in the prior month and, for each claim, the information specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section as of the last day of the prior month.

(A) MA organizations that send the explanation of benefits on a quarterly cycle with per-claim notifications must send the quarterly explanation of benefits before the end of each month that follows the quarter in which a claim was filed.

(B) MA organizations that send the explanation of benefits on a quarterly cycle with per-claim notifications must send the per-claim notification before the end of each month that follows the month in which a claim was filed.
