
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.128 Information on advance directives.
####### advance directive

(a) Each MA organization must maintain written policies and procedures that meet the requirements for advance directives, as set forth in subpart I of part 489 of this chapter. For purposes of this part,has the meaning given the term in ยง 489.100 of this chapter.

(b) An MA organization must maintain written policies and procedures concerning advance directives with respect to all adult individuals receiving medical care by or through the MA organization.

(1) An MA organization must provide written information to those individuals with respect to the following:

(i) Their rights under the law of the State in which the organization furnishes services (whether statutory or recognized by the courts of the State) to make decisions concerning their medical care, including the right to accept or refuse medical or surgical treatment and the right to formulate advance directives. Providers may contract with other entities to furnish this information but remain legally responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this section are met. The information must reflect changes in State law as soon as possible, but no later than 90 days after the effective date of the State law.

(ii) The MA organization's written policies respecting the implementation of those rights, including a clear and precise statement of limitation if the MA organization cannot implement an advance directive as a matter of conscience. At a minimum, this statement must do the following:

(A) Clarify any differences between institution-wide conscientious objections and those that may be raised by individual physicians.

(B) Identify the state legal authority permitting such objection.

(C) Describe the range of medical conditions or procedures affected by the conscience objection.

(D) Provide the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to each enrollee at the time of initial enrollment. If an enrollee is incapacitated at the time of initial enrollment and is unable to receive information (due to the incapacitating condition or a mental disorder) or articulate whether or not he or she has executed an advance directive, the MA organization may give advance directive information to the enrollee's family or surrogate in the same manner that it issues other materials about policies and procedures to the family of the incapacitated enrollee or to a surrogate or other concerned persons in accordance with State law. The MA organization is not relieved of its obligation to provide this information to the enrollee once he or she is no longer incapacitated or unable to receive such information. Follow-up procedures must be in place to ensure that the information is given to the individual directly at the appropriate time.

(E) Document in a prominent part of the individual's current medical record whether or not the individual has executed an advance directive.

(F) Not condition the provision of care or otherwise discriminate against an individual based on whether or not the individual has executed an advance directive.

(G) Ensure compliance with requirements of State law (whether statutory or recognized by the courts of the State) regarding advance directives.

(H) Provide for education of staff concerning its policies and procedures on advance directives.

(I) Provide for community education regarding advance directives that may include material required in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, either directly or in concert with other providers or entities. Separate community education materials may be developed and used, at the discretion of the MA organization. The same written materials are not required for all settings, but the material should define what constitutes an advance directive, emphasizing that an advance directive is designed to enhance an incapacitated individual's control over medical treatment, and describe applicable State law concerning advance directives. An MA organization must be able to document its community education efforts.

(2) The MA organization-

(i) Is not required to provide care that conflicts with an advance directive; and

(ii) Is not required to implement an advance directive if, as a matter of conscience, the MA organization cannot implement an advance directive and State law allows any health care provider or any agent of the provider to conscientiously object.

(3) The MA organization must inform individuals that complaints concerning noncompliance with the advance directive requirements may be filed with the State survey and certification agency.
