
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.134 Reward and incentive programs.
####### Reward items.

(d)(1) The reward item for a target activity must meet all of the following:

(i) Be offered identically to any qualifying individual who performs the target activity.

(ii) Be a direct tangible benefit to the qualifying individual who performs the target activity.

(iii) Be provided, to the enrollee, such as through transfer of ownership or delivery, for a target activity completed in the contract year during which this R&I program was offered, regardless if the enrollee is likely to use the reward item after the contract year.

(2) The reward item for a target activity must not:

(i) Be offered in the form of cash, cash equivalents, or other monetary rebates (including reduced cost sharing or premiums). An item is classified as a cash equivalent if it either:

(A) Is convertible to cash (such as a check); or

(B) Can be used like cash (such as a general purpose debit card).

(ii) Have a value that exceeds the value of the target activity itself.

(iii) Involve elements of chance.

(3) Permissible reward items for a target activity may be reward items that:

(i) Consist of "points" or "tokens" that can be used to acquire tangible items.

(ii) Are offered in the form of a gift card that can be redeemed only at specific retailers or retail chains or for a specific category of items or services.
