
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 422.134 Reward and incentive programs.
####### Target activities.

(c)(1) A target activity in an R&I program must meet all of the following:

(i) Directly involve the qualifying individual and performance by the qualifying individual.

(ii) Be specified, in detail, as to the level of completion needed in order to qualify for the reward item.

(iii) Be health-related by doing at least one of the following:

(A) Promoting improved health.

(B) Preventing injuries and illness,

(C) Promoting the efficient use of health care resources.

(iv) Uniformly offer any qualifying individual the opportunity to participate in the target activity.

(v) Be provided with accommodations consistent with the goal of the target activity to otherwise qualifying individuals who are unable to perform the target activity in a manner that satisfies the intended goal of the target activity.

(2) The target activity in an R&I program must not do any of the following:

(i) Be related to Part D benefits.

(ii) Discriminate against enrollees. To ensure that anti-discrimination requirements are met, an MA organization, in providing a rewards and incentives program, must comply with paragraph (g)(1) of this section and must not design a program based on the achievement of a health status measurement.
