
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### ยง 422.152 Quality improvement program.
####### Requirements for MA coordinated care plans (except for regional MA plans) and including local PPO plans that are offered by organizations that are licensed or organized under State law as HMOs.

(b)An MA coordinated care plan's (except for regional PPO plans and local PPO plans as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) quality improvement program must-

(1) In processing requests for initial or continued authorization of services, follow written policies and procedures that reflect current standards of medical practice.

(2) Have in effect mechanisms to detect both underutilization and overutilization of services.

(3) Measure and report performance. The organization offering the plan must do the following:

(i) Measure performance under the plan, using the measurement tools required by CMS, and report its performance to CMS. The standard measures may be specified in uniform data collection and reporting instruments required by CMS.

(ii) Collect, analyze, and report quality performance data identified by CMS that are of the same type as those under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(iii) Make available to CMS information on quality and outcomes measures that will enable beneficiaries to compare health coverage options and select among them, as provided in ยง 422.64.

(4) Special rule for MA local PPO-type plans that are offered by an organization that is licensed or organized under State law as a health maintenance organization must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(5) All coordinated care contracts (including local and regional PPOs, contracts with exclusively SNP benefit packages, private fee-for-service contracts, and MSA contracts), and all cost contracts under section 1876 of the Act, with 600 or more enrollees in July of the prior year, must contract with approved Medicare Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS) survey vendors to conduct the Medicare CAHPS satisfaction survey of Medicare plan enrollees in accordance with CMS specifications and submit the survey data to CMS.

(6) For 2021 Star Ratings only, MA organizations are not required to submit HEDIS and CAHPS data that would otherwise be required for the calculation of the 2021 Star Ratings.
