
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### ยง 422.152 Quality improvement program.
####### Requirements for MA regional plans and MA local plans that are PPO plans as defined in this section,Definition of local preferred provider organization plan.

(e)-(1)For purposes of this section, the term local preferred provider organization (PPO) plan means an MA plan that-

(i) Has a network of providers that have agreed to a contractually specified reimbursement for covered benefits with the organization offering the plan;

(ii) Provides for reimbursement for all covered benefits regardless of whether the benefits are provided within the network of providers; and

(iii) Is offered by an organization that is not licensed or organized under State law as a health maintenance organization.

(2) MA organizations offering an MA regional plan or local PPO plan as defined in this section must:

(i) Measure performance under the plan using standard measures required by CMS and report its performance to CMS. The standard measures may be specified in uniform data collection and reporting instruments required by CMS.

(ii) Collect, analyze, and report quality performance data identified by CMS that are of the same type as those described under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(iii) Evaluate the continuity and coordination of care furnished to enrollees.

(iv) If the organization uses written protocols for utilization review, the organization must-

(A) Base those protocols on current standards of medical practice; and

(B) Have mechanisms to evaluate utilization of services and to inform enrollees and providers of services of the results of the evaluation.
