
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### ยง 422.164 Adding, updating, and removing measures.
####### 4

() 80 percent, 4 star reduction.

(E) If a contract receives a reduction due to missing Part C IRE data, the reduction is applied to both of the contract's Part C appeals measures.

(F) If a contract receives a reduction due to missing Part D IRE data, the reduction is applied to both of the contract's Part D appeals measures.

(G) The scaled reduction is applied after the calculation for the appeals measure-level Star Ratings. If the application of the scaled reduction results in a measure-level star rating less than 1 star, the contract will be assigned 1 star for the appeals measure.

(H) The Part C Calculated Error is determined using the quotient of number of cases not forwarded to the IRE and the total number of cases that should have been forwarded to the IRE. (The number of cases that should have been forwarded to the IRE is the sum of the number of cases in the IRE during the data collection or data sample period and the number of cases not forwarded to the IRE during the same period.)

(I) The Part D Calculated Error is determined by the quotient of the number of untimely cases not auto-forwarded to the IRE and the total number of untimely cases.

(J) The projected number of cases not forwarded to the IRE in a 3-month period is calculated by multiplying the number of cases found not to be forwarded to the IRE based on the TMP or audit data by a constant determined by the data collection or data sample time period. The value of the constant will be 1.0 for contracts that submitted 3 months of data; 1.5 for contracts that submitted 2 months of data; and 3.0 for contracts that submitted 1 month of data.

(K) Contracts are subject to a possible reduction due to lack of IRE data completeness if both of the following conditions are met:
