
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### § 422.166 Calculation of Star Ratings.
####### Overall MA-PD rating.

(d)(1) The overall rating for a MA-PD contract will be calculated using a weighted mean of the Part C and Part D measure-level Star Ratings, weighted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section and with an adjustment to reward consistently high performance and the application of the CAI, under paragraph (f) of this section.

(2)(i) An MA-PD must have both Part C and Part D summary ratings and scores for at least 50 percent of the measures required to be reported for the contract type to have the overall rating calculated.

(ii) The Part C and D improvement measures are not included in the count of measures needed for the overall rating.

(iii) Any measures that share the same data and are included in both the Part C and Part D summary ratings will be included only once in the calculation for the overall rating.

(iv) The overall rating is on a 1- to 5-star scale ranging from 1 (worst rating) to 5 (best rating) in half-increments using traditional rounding rules.

(v) Low enrollment contracts (as defined in § 422.252) and new MA plans (as defined in § 422.252) do not receive an overall and/or summary rating. They are treated as qualifying plans for the purposes of QBPs as described in § 422.258(d)(7) and as announced through the process described for changes in and adoption of payment and risk adjustment policies in section 1853(b) of the Act.

(vi) The QBP ratings for contracts that do not have sufficient data to calculate and assign ratings and do not meet the definition of low enrollment or new MA plans at § 422.252 are assigned as follows:
