
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### ยง 422.166 Calculation of Star Ratings.
####### HOS adjustments.

(3)(i) An affected contract must administer the HOS survey unless exempt under paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) An affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance is exempt from administering the HOS survey if the contract completes the following:

(A) Demonstrates to CMS that the required sample for the survey cannot be contacted because a substantial number of the contract's enrollees are displaced due to the FEMA-designated disaster identified in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section during the measurement period.

(B) Requests and receives a CMS approved exemption.

(iii) Affected contracts with an exemption described in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section receive the prior year's HOS and Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS)-HOS measure stars and corresponding measure scores.

(iv) For an affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance, the affected contract receives the higher of the previous year's Star Rating or the current year's Star Rating (and corresponding measure score) for each HOS and HEDIS-HOS measure.

(v) When a contract is an affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance with regard to separate extreme and uncontrollable circumstances that begin in successive years, it is a multiple year-affected contract. A multiple year-affected contract receives the higher of the current year's Star Rating or what the previous year's Star Rating would have been in the absence of any adjustments that took into account the effects of the previous year's disaster for each measure (using the corresponding measure score for the Star Ratings year selected).
