
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### ยง 422.166 Calculation of Star Ratings.
####### HEDIS adjustments.

(4)(i) An affected contract must report HEDIS data unless exempted under paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section.

(ii) An affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance is exempt from reporting HEDIS data if the contract completes the following:

(A) Demonstrates an inability to obtain both administrative and medical record data that are required for reporting HEDIS measures due to a FEMA-designated disaster in the prior calendar year.

(B) Requests and receives a CMS approved exemption.

(iii) Affected contracts with an exemption described in paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section receive the prior year's HEDIS measure stars and corresponding measure scores.

(iv) Contracts that do not have an exemption defined in paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section may contact National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) to request modifications to the samples for measures that require medical record review.

(v) For an affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance, the affected contract receives the higher of the previous year's Star Rating or the current year's Star Rating (and corresponding measure score) for each HEDIS measure.

(vi) When a contract is an affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance with regard to separate extreme and uncontrollable circumstances that begin in successive years, it is a multiple year-affected contract. A multiple year-affected contract receives the higher of the current year's Star Rating or what the previous year's Star Rating would have been in the absence of any adjustments that took into account the effects of the previous year's disaster for each measure (using the corresponding measure score for the Star Ratings year selected).
