
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Quality Improvement
###### ยง 422.166 Calculation of Star Ratings.
####### Other Star Ratings measure adjustments.

(6)(i) For all other measures except those measures identified in this paragraph (i)(6)(ii) of this section, affected contracts with at least 25 percent of enrollees in a FEMA-designated Individual Assistance area at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance receive the higher of the previous or current year's measure Star Rating (and corresponding measure score).

(ii) CMS does not adjust the scores or Star Ratings for the following measures, unless the exemption in paragraph (i)(6)(iii) of this section applies.

(A) Part C Call Center-Foreign Language Interpreter and TTY Availability.

(B) Part D Call Center-Foreign Language Interpreter and TTY Availability.

(iii) CMS adjusts the measures listed in paragraph (i)(6)(ii) of this section using the adjustments listed in paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section for contracts affected by extreme and uncontrollable circumstances where there are continuing communications issues related to loss of electricity and damage to infrastructure during the call center study.

(iv) When a contract is an affected contract with at least 25 percent of enrollees in FEMA-designated Individual Assistance areas at the time of the extreme and uncontrollable circumstance with regard to separate extreme and uncontrollable circumstances that begin in successive years, it is a multiple year-affected contract. A multiple year-affected contract receives the higher of the current year's Star Rating or what the previous year's Star Rating would have been in the absence of any adjustments that took into account the effects of the previous year's disaster for each measure (using the corresponding measure score for the Star Ratings year selected).
