
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Relationships With Providers
###### ยง 422.208 Physician incentive plans: requirements and limitations.
####### Specific requirements.

(2)(i) Aggregate stop-loss protection must cover 90 percent of the costs of referral services that exceed 25 percent of potential payments.

(ii) For per-patient stop-loss protection if the stop-loss protection provided is on a per-patient basis, the stop-loss limit (deductible) per patient must be determined based on the size of the patient panel and may be a combined policy or consist of separate policies for professional services and institutional services. In determining patient panel size, the patients may be pooled in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(iii)(A) Stop-loss protection must cover at least 90 percent of costs of referral services above the deductible or an actuarial equivalent amount of the costs of referral services that exceed the per-patient deductible limit. The single combined deductible for the required stop-loss protection for the various panel sizes for contract years beginning on or after January 1, 2019 is determined using the Combined Stop-Loss Insurance Deductible Table (Table PIP-1). For panel sizes not shown on Table PIP-1 and for values not shown on Table PIP-2, linear interpolation (between the table values) may be used to identify the maximum deductible(s) for the required stop-loss coverage. Tables PIP-1 and PIP-2 apply to only multi-specialty physician groups in global capitation arrangements with per-patient stop-loss insurance. For all other physician incentive plan arrangements, the MA organization must assure that the physician or physician group entering into the physician incentive plan arrangement is covered by actuarially equivalent stop-loss protection that meets the requirements of this regulation.

(B) Using Table PIP-1, the deductible is identified for the panel size that is the number of risk patients plus non-risk patient equivalents. Non-risk patient equivalents may add a maximum of $100,000 to the deductible. The deductible for the stop-loss insurance required to be provided for the physician or physician group is then based on the lesser of:
