
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Relationships With Providers
###### ยง 422.208 Physician incentive plans: requirements and limitations.
####### Arrangements that cause substantial financial risk.

(3)The following incentive arrangements cause substantial financial risk within the meaning of this section, if the physician's or physician group's patient panel size is not greater than 25,000 patients, as shown in the table at paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section:

(i) Withholds greater than 25 percent of potential payments.

(ii) Withholds less than 25 percent of potential payments if the physician or physician group is potentially liable for amounts exceeding 25 percent of potential payments.

(iii) Bonuses that are greater than 33 percent of potential payments minus the bonus.

(iv) Withholds plus bonuses if the withholds plus bonuses equal more than 25 percent of potential payments. The threshold bonus percentage for a particular withhold percentage may be calculated using the formula-Withhold % = -0.75 (Bonus %) + 25%.

(v) Capitation arrangements, if-

(A) The difference between the maximum potential payments and the minimum potential payments is more than 25 percent of the maximum potential payments;

(B) The maximum and minimum potential payments are not clearly explained in the contract with the physician or physician group.

(vi) Any other incentive arrangements that have the potential to hold a physician or physician group liable for more than 25 percent of potential payments.
