
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Relationships With Providers
###### ยง 422.208 Physician incentive plans: requirements and limitations.
####### 2

() The deductible for the panel size that is the total of the number of risk patients plus non-risk patient equivalents.

(iv) Table 1 is developed and updated by CMS using the methodology in this paragraph. CMS publishes Table PIP-1 in guidance (such as an attachment to the Rate Announcement issued under section 1853(b) of the Act) in advance of the bid due date for the upcoming year if CMS determines that an update would be prudent for that year.

(A) The stop-loss tables are calculated using claims data for a statistically valid sample of beneficiaries enrolled in Fee-for-Service Medicare Parts A and B from the most available recent year. The sample includes only claims for beneficiaries eligible for both Part A and Part B for whom Medicare is the primary insurer and excludes hospice claims. The estimate of medical group income is derived from payments for all Part A and Part B services (excluding hospice) in the sampled claims data (to emulate a multi-specialty practice). The central limit theorem is used to obtain the distribution of claim means for a multi-specialty group of any given panel size. The distribution of claim means is used to obtain, with 98 percent confidence, the point at which a multi-specialty group of a given panel size would, through referral services, lose no more than 25 percent of potential payments. This point is the deductible in Table PIP-1 for the given panel size.
