
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Relationships With Providers
###### ยง 422.208 Physician incentive plans: requirements and limitations.
####### Separate Stop-Loss Insurance Deductible Table

(B) The `net benefit premium' (NBP) column in Table PIP-1 is not used for computation of combined insurance but is used to determine the separate deductibles for professional services and institutional services in the(Table PIP-2).

(C) The NBP is computed by dividing the total amount of stop loss claims (90 percent of claims above the deductible) for that panel size by the panel size.

(v)(A) Insurance using separate deductibles for professional and institutional claims is permissible so long as the separate deductibles for institutional services and professional services are determined using Table 2 as described in paragraph (f)(2)(vi)(B) of this section. Table PIP-2 is developed and updated by CMS using the methodology in paragraph (f)(2)(vi). CMS publishes Table PIP-2 in guidance (such as an attachment to the Rate Announcement issued under section 1853(b) of the Act) in advance of the bid due date for the upcoming year if CMS determines that an update would be prudent for that year.

(B) The maximum deductibles for each category of services (institutional and professional claims) are identified by using the net benefit premium (NBP) determined in Table PIP-1 as the starting point in Table PIP-2. Any combination of institutional and professional attachment points for which the NBP in Table PIP-2 is greater than the NBP determined in Table PIP-1 is permissible. Interpolation may be used to find the NBP values in Table PIP-2 that are closest to the NBP identified in Table PIP-1.

(vi) Table PIP-2 is developed using a methodology similar to that for Table PIP-1.

(A) Claims data are obtained as described in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(A).

(B) Professional and institutional claims are defined and categorized based on industry standards and based on payments for Part A and Part B services.

(C) The central limit theorem is used to obtain the distribution of claim means and deductibles are obtained at the 98 percent confidence level.
