
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 50 - POLICIES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY
##### Subpart B - Sterilization of Persons in Federally Assisted Family Planning Projects
###### Appendix to Subpart B of Part 50 - Required Consent Form

YOUR DECISION AT ANY TIME NOT TO BE STERILIZED WILL NOT RESULT IN THE WITHDRAWAL OR WITHHOLDING OF ANY BENEFITS PROVIDED BY PROGRAMS OR PROJECTS RECEIVING FEDERAL FUNDS.

I have asked for and received information about sterilization from _______ (doctor or clinic). When I first asked for the information, I was told that the decision to be sterilized is completely up to me. I was told that I could decide not to be sterilized. If I decide not to be sterilized, my decision will not affect my right to future care or treatment. I will not lose any help or benefits from programs receiving Federal funds, such as A.F.D.C. or medicaid that I am now getting or for which I may become eligible.

I UNDERSTAND THAT THE STERILIZATION MUST BE CONSIDERED PERMANENT AND NOT REVERSIBLE. I HAVE DECIDED THAT I DO NOT WANT TO BECOME PREGNANT, BEAR CHILDREN OR FATHER CHILDREN.

I was told about those temporary methods of birth control that are available and could be provided to me which will allow me to bear or father a child in the future. I have rejected these alternatives and chosen to be sterilized.

I understand that I will be sterilized by an operation known as a _______. The discomforts, risks and benefits associated with the operation have been explained to me. All my questions have been answered to my satisfaction.

I understand that the operation will not be done until at least 30 days after I sign this form. I understand that I can change my mind at any time and that my decision at any time not to be sterilized will not result in the withholding of any benefits or medical services provided by federally funded programs.

I am at least 21 years of age and was born on __ (day), __ (month), __ (year).

I, _______, hereby consent of my own free will to be sterilized by _______ by a method called _______. My consent expires 180 days from the date of my signature below.

I also consent to the release of this form and other medical records about the operation to:

Representatives of the Department of Health and Human Services or

Employees of programs or projects funded by that Department but only for determining if Federal laws were observed.

I have received a copy of this form.

You are requested to supply the following information, but it is not required:
