
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Relationships With Providers
###### ยง 422.216 Special rules for MA private fee-for-service plans.
####### Information on payment terms and conditions.

(h)Information on payment terms and conditions was made available through either of the following methods:

(1) The MA organization used postal service, electronic mail, FAX, or telephone to communicate the information to one of the following:

(i) The provider.

(ii) The employer or billing agent of the provider.

(iii) A partnership of which the provider is a member.

(iv) Any party to which the provider makes assignment or reassigns benefits.

(2) The MA organization has in effect a procedure under which-

(i) Any provider furnishing services to an enrollee in an MA private fee-for-service plan, and who has not previously entered into a contract or agreement to furnish services under the plan, can receive instructions on how to request the payment information;

(ii) The organization responds to the request before the entity furnishes the service; and

(iii) The information the organization provides includes the following:

(A) Billing procedures.

(B) The amount the organization will pay towards the service.

(C) The amount the provider is permitted to collect from the enrollee.

(D) The information described in ยง 422.202(a)(1).

(3) Announcements in newspapers, journals, or magazines or on radio or television are not considered communication of the terms and conditions of payment.
