
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 50 - POLICIES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY
##### Subpart B - Sterilization of Persons in Federally Assisted Family Planning Projects
###### Appendix to Subpart B of Part 50 - Required Consent Form
####### Race

(mark one or more):

If an interpreter is provided to assist the individual to be sterilized:

I have translated the information and advice presented orally to the individual to be sterilized by the person obtaining this consent. I have also read him/her the consent form in _______ language and explained its contents to him/her. To the best of my knowledge and belief he/she understood this explanation.

Before _______ (name of individual), signed the consent form, I explained to him/her the nature of the sterilization operation _______, the fact that it is intended to be a final and irreversible procedure and the discomforts, risks and benefits associated with it.

I counseled the individual to be sterilized that alternative methods of birth control are available which are temporary. I explained that sterilization is different because it is permanent.

I informed the individual to be sterilized that his/her consent can be withdrawn at any time and that he/she will not lose any health services or any benefits provided by Federal funds.

To the best of my knowledge and belief the individual to be sterilized is at least 21 years old and appears mentally competent. He/She knowingly and voluntarily requested to be sterilized and appears to understand the nature and consequence of the procedure.

Shortly before I performed a sterilization operation upon _______ (name of individual to be sterilized), on _____ (date of sterilization), _______ (operation), I explained to him/her the nature of the sterilization operation _______ (specify type of operation), the fact that it is intended to be a final and irreversible procedure and the discomforts, risks and benefits associated with it.

I counseled the individual to be sterilized that alternative methods of birth control are available which are temporary. I explained that sterilization is different because it is permanent.

I informed the individual to be sterilized that his/her consent can be withdrawn at any time and that he/she will not lose any health services or benefits provided by Federal funds.

To the best of my knowledge and belief the individual to be sterilized is at least 21 years old and appears mentally competent. He/She knowingly and voluntarily requested to be sterilized and appeared to understand the nature and consequences of the procedure.
