
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Submission of Bids, Premiums, and Related Information and Plan Approval
###### § 422.254 Submission of bids.
####### Bid requirements.

(b)(1) The monthly aggregate bid amount submitted by an MA organization for each plan is the organization's estimate of the revenue required for the following categories for providing coverage to an MA eligible beneficiary with a national average risk profile for the factors described in § 422.308(c):

(i) The unadjusted MA statutory non-drug monthly bid amount, which is the MA plan's estimated average monthly required revenue for providing basic benefits as defined in § 422.100(c)(1).

(ii) The amount to provide basic prescription drug coverage, if any (defined at section 1860D-2(a)(3) of the Act).

(iii) The amount to provide supplemental health care benefits, if any.

(2) Each bid is for a uniform benefit package for the service area.

(3) Each bid submission must contain all estimated revenue required by the plan, including administrative costs and return on investment.

(i) MA plans offering additional telehealth benefits as defined in § 422.135(a) must exclude any capital and infrastructure costs and investments directly incurred or paid by the MA plan relating to such benefits from their bid submission for the unadjusted MA statutory non-drug monthly bid amount.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) The bid amount is for plan payments only but must be based on plan assumptions about the amount of revenue required from enrollee cost-sharing. The estimate of plan cost-sharing for the unadjusted MA statutory non-drug monthly bid amount for coverage of basic benefits as defined in § 422.100(c)(1) must reflect the requirement that the level of cost sharing MA plans charge to enrollees must be actuarially equivalent to the level of cost sharing (deductible, copayments, or coinsurance) charged to beneficiaries under the original Medicare fee-for-service program option. The actuarially equivalent level of cost sharing reflected in a regional plan's unadjusted MA statutory non-drug monthly bid amount does not include cost sharing for out-of-network Medicare benefits, as described at § 422.101(d).
