
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 50 - POLICIES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY
##### Subpart B - Sterilization of Persons in Federally Assisted Family Planning Projects
###### Appendix to Subpart B of Part 50 - Required Consent Form
####### Instructions for use of alternative final paragraphs:

(Use the first paragraph below except in the case of premature delivery or emergency abdominal surgery where the sterilization is performed less than 30 days after the date of the individual's signature on the consent form. In those cases, the second paragraph below must be used. Cross out the paragraph which is not used.)

(1) At least 30 days have passed between the date of the individual's signature on this consent form and the date the sterilization was performed.

(2) This sterilization was performed less than 30 days but more than 72 hours after the date of the individual's signature on this consent form because of the following circumstances (check applicable box and fill in information requested):

A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays the currently valid OMB control number. Public reporting burden for this collection of information will vary; however, we estimate an average of one hour per response, including for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining the necessary data, and disclosing the information. Send any comment regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information to the OS Reports Clearance Officer, ASBTF/Budget Room 503 HHH Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201.

Respondents should be informed that the collection of information requested on this form is authorized by 42 CFR part 50, subpart B, relating to the sterilization of persons in federally assisted public health programs. The purpose of requesting this information is to ensure that individuals requesting sterilization receive information regarding the risks, benefits and consequences, and to assure the voluntary and informed consent of all persons undergoing sterilization procedures in federally assisted public health programs. Although not required, respondents are requested to supply information on their race and ethnicity. Failure to provide the other information requested on this consent form, and to sign this consent form, may result in an inability to receive sterilization procedures funded through federally assisted public health programs.

All information as to personal facts and circumstances obtained through this form will be held confidential, and not disclosed without the individual's consent, pursuant to any applicable confidentiality regulations.
