
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Submission of Bids, Premiums, and Related Information and Plan Approval
###### § 422.254 Submission of bids.
####### Information required for coordinated care plans and MA private fee-for-service plans.

(c)MA organizations' submission of bids for coordinated care plans, including regional MA plans and specialized MA plans for special needs beneficiaries (described at § 422.4(a)(1)(iv)), and for MA private fee-for-service plans must include the following information:

(1) The plan type for each plan.

(2) The monthly aggregate bid amount for the provision of all items and services under the plan, as defined in § 422.252 and discussed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) The proportions of the bid amount attributable to-

(i) The provision of basic benefits as defined in § 422.100(c)(1);

(ii) The provision of basic prescription drug coverage (as defined at section 1860D-2(a)(3) of the Act; and

(iii) The provision of supplemental health care benefits (as defined § 422.102).

(4) The projected number of enrollees in each MA local area used in calculation of the bid amount, and the enrollment capacity, if any, for the plan.

(5) The actuarial basis for determining the amount under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the proportions under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the amount under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and additional information as CMS may require to verify actuarial bases and the projected number of enrollees.

(6) A description of deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments applicable under the plan and the actuarial value of the deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments.

(7) For qualified prescription drug coverage, the information required under section 1860D-11(b) of the Act with respect to coverage.

(8) For the purposes of calculation of risk corridors under § 422.458, MA organizations offering regional MA plans in 2006 and/or 2007 must submit the following information developed using the appropriate actuarial bases.

(i) Projected allowable costs (defined in § 422.458(a)).

(ii) The portion of projected allowable costs attributable to administrative expenses incurred in providing these benefits.

(iii) The total projected costs for providing rebatable integrated benefits (as defined in § 422.458(a)) and the portion of costs that is attributable to administrative expenses.

(9) For regional plans, as determined by CMS, the relative cost factors for the counties in a plan's service area, for the purposes of adjusting payment under § 422.308(d) for intra-area variations in an MA organization's local payment rates.
