
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Submission of Bids, Premiums, and Related Information and Plan Approval
###### ยง 422.258 Calculation of benchmarks.

(a) The term "MA area-specific non-drug monthly benchmark amount" means, for a month in a year:

(1) For MA local plans with service areas entirely within a single MA local area:

(i) For years before 2007, one-twelfth of the annual MA capitation rate (described at ยง 422.306) for the area, adjusted as appropriate for the purpose of risk adjustment.

(ii) For years 2007 through 2010, one-twelfth of the applicable amount determined under section 1853(k)(1) of the Act for the area for the year, adjusted as appropriate for the purpose of risk adjustment.

(iii) For 2011, one-twelfth of the applicable amount determined under 1853(k)(1) for the area for 2010.

(iv) Beginning with 2012, one-twelfth of the blended benchmark amount described in paragraph (d) of this section, subject to paragraph (d)(8) of this section and adjusted as appropriate for the purpose of risk adjustment.

(2) For MA local plans with service areas including more than one MA local area, an amount equal to the weighted average of amounts described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the year for each local area (county) in the plan's service area, using as weights the projected number of enrollees in each MA local area that the plan used to calculate the bid amount, and adjusted as appropriate for the purpose of risk adjustment.

(b) For MA regional plans, the term "MA region-specific non-drug monthly benchmark amount" is:

(1) The sum of two components: the statutory component (based on a weighted average of local benchmarks in the region, as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and the plan bid component (based on a weighted average of regional plan bids in the region as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section).

(2) Announced before November 15 of each year, but after CMS has received the plan bids.
