
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Submission of Bids, Premiums, and Related Information and Plan Approval
###### ยง 422.260 Appeals of quality bonus payment determinations.
####### Informal hearing request.

(2)An MA organization may request an informal hearing on the record following the reconsideration official's decision regarding its QBP status.

(i) The MA organization seeking an appeal of the reconsideration official's decision regarding its QBP status must do so by providing written notice to CMS within 10 business days of the issuance of the reconsideration decision. The notice must specify the errors the MA organization asserts that CMS made in making the QBP determination and how correction of those errors could result in the organization's qualification for a QBP or a higher QBP.

(ii) The MA organization may not request an informal hearing of its QBP status unless it has already requested and received a reconsideration decision in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iii) The informal hearing request must pertain only to the measure(s) and value(s) in question that precipitated the request for reconsideration.

(iv) The informal hearing is conducted by a CMS hearing officer on the record. The hearing officer receives no testimony, but may accept written statements with exhibits from each party in support of their position in the matter.

(v) The MA organization must provide clear and convincing evidence that CMS' calculations of the measure(s) and value(s) in question were incorrect.

(vi) The hearing officer issues the decision by electronic mail to the MA organization.

(vii) The hearing officer's decision is final and binding.
