
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Payments to Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.308 Adjustments to capitation rates, benchmarks, bids, and payments.
####### Application of coding adjustment.

(5)(i) In applying the adjustment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for health status to payment amounts, the Secretary ensures that such adjustment reflects changes in treatment and coding practices in the fee-for-service sector and reflects differences in coding patterns between MA plans and providers under Part A and B to the extent that the Secretary has identified such differences.

(ii) In order to ensure payment accuracy, the Secretary annually conducts an analysis of the differences described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section.

(A) The Secretary completes such analysis by a date necessary to ensure that the results of such analysis are incorporated on a timely basis into the risk scores for 2008 and subsequent years.

(B) In conducting such analysis, the Secretary uses data submitted with respect to 2004 and subsequent years, as available and updated as appropriate.

(iii) In calculating each year's adjustment, the adjustment factor is as follows:

(A) For 2014, not less than the adjustment factor applied for 2010, plus 1.3 percentage points.

(B) For each of the years 2015 through 2018, not less than the adjustment factor applied for the previous year, plus 0.25 percentage points.

(C) For 2019 and each subsequent year, not less than 5.7 percent.

(iv) Such adjustment is applied to risk scores until the Secretary implements risk adjustment using MA diagnostic, cost, and use data.
