
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Payments to Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.310 Risk adjustment data.
####### Deadlines for submission of risk adjustment data.

(g)Risk adjustment factors for each payment year are based on risk adjustment data submitted for items and services furnished during the 12-month period before the payment year that is specified by CMS. As determined by CMS, this 12-month period may include a 6-month data lag that may be changed or eliminated as appropriate. CMS may adjust these deadlines, as appropriate.

(1) The annual deadline for risk adjustment data submission is the first Friday in September for risk adjustment data reflecting items and services furnished during the 12-month period ending the prior June 30, and the first Friday in March for data reflecting services furnished during the 12-month period ending the prior December 31.

(2) After the payment year is completed, CMS recalculates the risk factors for affected individuals to determine if adjustments to payments are necessary.

(i) Prior to calculation of final risk factors for a payment year, CMS allows a reconciliation process to account for risk adjustment data submitted after the March deadline until the final risk adjustment data submission deadline in the year following the payment year.

(ii) After the final risk adjustment data submission deadline, which is a date announced by CMS that is no earlier than January 31 of the year following the payment year, an MA organization can submit data to correct overpayments but cannot submit diagnoses for additional payment.

(3) Submission of corrected risk adjustment data in accordance with overpayments after the final risk adjustment data submission deadline, as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, must be made as provided in ยง 422.326.
