
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Payments to Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.311 RADV audit dispute and appeal processes.
####### Manner and timing of a request for RADV appeal.

(5)(i) At the time the Secretary issues its RADV audit report, the Secretary notifies audited MA organizations of the following:

(A) That they may appeal RADV HCC errors that are eligible for medical record review determination appeal.

(B) That they may appeal the Secretary's RADV payment error calculation.

(ii) MA organizations have 60 days from date of issuance of the RADV audit report to file a written request with CMS for RADV appeal. This request for RADV appeal must specify one of the following:

(A) Whether the MA organization requests medical record review determination appeal, the issues with which the MA organization disagrees, and the reasons for the disagreements.

(B) Whether the MA organization requests RADV payment error calculation appeal, the issues with which the MA organization disagrees, and the reasons for the disagreements.

(C) Whether the MA organization requests both medical record review determination appeal and RADV payment error calculation appeal, the issues with which the MA organization disagrees, and the reasons for the disagreements.

(iii) For MA organizations that appeal both medical record review determination appeal and RADV payment error calculation appeal:

(A) The Secretary adjudicates the request for RADV payment error calculation following conclusion of reconsideration of the MA organization's request for medical record review determination appeal.

(B) An MA organization's request for appeal of its RADV payment error calculation will not be adjudicated until appeals of RADV medical record review determinations filed by the MA organization have been completed and the decisions are final for that stage of appeal.
