
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Payments to Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.330 CMS-identified overpayments associated with payment data submitted by MA organizations.
####### Review by the Administrator.

(3)The Administrator review will be conducted in the following manner:

(i) An MA organization that has received a hearing officer's decision may request review by the Administrator within 30 days of the date of issuance of the hearing officer's decision under paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section. The MA organization may submit written arguments to the Administrator for review.

(ii) After receiving a request for review, the Administrator has the discretion to elect to review the hearing officer's determination in accordance with paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section or to decline to review the hearing officer's decision.

(iii) If the Administrator declines to review the hearing officer's decision, the hearing officer's decision is final and binding.

(iv) If the Administrator elects to review the hearing officer's decision, the Administrator will review the hearing officer's decision, as well as any information included in the record of the hearing officer's decision and any written argument submitted by the MA organization, and determine whether to uphold, reverse, or modify the hearing officer's decision.

(v) The Administrator's determination is final and binding.
