
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### § 422.502 Evaluation and determination procedures.
####### Use of information from a current or prior contract.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section, if an MA organization fails during the 12 months preceding the deadline established by CMS for the submission of contract qualification applications to comply with the requirements of the Part C program under any current or prior contract with CMS under title XVIII of the Act, CMS may deny an application based on the applicant's failure to comply with the requirements of the Part C program under any current or prior contract with CMS even if the applicant currently meets all of the requirements of this part.

(i) An applicant may be considered to have failed to comply with a contract for purposes of an application denial under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if during the applicable review period the applicant does any of the following:

(A) Was subject to the imposition of an intermediate sanction under subpart O of this part or a determination by CMS to prohibit the enrollment of new enrollees in accordance with § 422.2410(c), with the exception of a sanction imposed under § 422.752(d).

(B) Failed to maintain a fiscally sound operation consistent with the requirements of § 422.504(b)(14).

(C) Filed for or is currently in State bankruptcy proceedings.

(D) Received any combination of Part C or D summary ratings of 2.5 or less in both of the two most recent Star Rating periods, as identified in § 422.166.

(E) Met or exceeded 13 points for compliance actions for any one contract.
