
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### § 422.503 General provisions.
####### Conditions necessary to contract as an MA organization.

(b)Any entity seeking to contract as an MA organization must:

(1) Complete an application as described in § 422.501.

(2) Be licensed by the State as a risk bearing entity in each State in which it seeks to offer an MA plan as defined in § 422.2.

(3) Meet the minimum enrollment requirements of § 422.514, unless waived under § 422.514(b).

(4) Have administrative and management arrangements satisfactory to CMS, as demonstrated by at least the following:

(i) A policy making body that exercises oversight and control over the MA organization's policies and personnel to ensure that management actions are in the best interest of the organization and its enrollees.

(ii) Personnel and systems sufficient for the MA organization to organize, implement, control, and evaluate financial and communication activities, the furnishing of services, the quality improvement program, and the administrative and management aspects of the organization.

(iii) At a minimum, an executive manager whose appointment and removal are under the control of the policy making body.

(iv) A fidelity bond or bonds, procured and maintained by the MA organization, in an amount fixed by its policymaking body but not less than $100,000 per individual, covering each officer and employee entrusted with the handling of its funds. The bond may have reasonable deductibles, based upon the financial strength of the MA organization.

(v) Insurance policies or other arrangements, secured and maintained by the MA organization and approved by CMS to insure the MA organization against losses arising from professional liability claims, fire, theft, fraud, embezzlement, and other casualty risks.

(vi) Adopt and implement an effective compliance program, which must include measures that prevent, detect, and correct non-compliance with CMS' program requirements as well as measures that prevent, detect, and correct fraud, waste, and abuse. The compliance program must, at a minimum, include the following core requirements:

(A) Written policies, procedures, and standards of conduct that-
