
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### § 422.502 Evaluation and determination procedures.
####### 2

() CMS adds all the point values for each MA organization to determine if any organization meets CMS' identified threshold.

(A) Was subject to the imposition of an intermediate sanction under subpart O of this part, with the exception of a sanction imposed under § 422.752(d) or a determination by CMS to prohibit the enrollment of new enrollees pursuant to § 422.2410(c).

(B) Failed to maintain a fiscally sound operation consistent with the requirements of § 422.504(b)(14).

(ii) CMS may deny an application submitted by an organization that does not hold a Part C contract at the time of the submission when the applicant's parent organization or another subsidiary of the parent organization meets the criteria for denial stated in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. This paragraph does not apply when the parent organization completed the acquisition of the subsidiary that meets the criteria within the 24 months preceding the application submission deadline.

(2) In the absence of 12 months of performance history, CMS may deny an application based on a lack of information available to determine an applicant's capacity to comply with the requirements of the MA program.

(3) If CMS has terminated, under § 422.510, or non-renewed, under § 422.506(b), an MA organization's contract, effective within the 38 months preceding the deadline established by CMS for the submission of contract qualification applications, CMS may deny an application for a new contract or service area expansion based on the applicant's substantial failure to comply with the requirements of the Part C program even if the applicant currently meets all of the requirements of this part.

(4) During the same 38-month period as specified in (b)(3) of this section, CMS may deny an application where the applicant's covered persons also served as covered persons for the terminated or non-renewed contract. A "covered person" as used in this paragraph means one of the following:

(i) All owners of terminated organizations who are natural persons, other than shareholders who have an ownership interest of less than 5 percent.

(ii) An owner in whole or part interest in any mortgage, deed of trust, note or other obligation secured (in whole or in part) by the organization, or any of the property or assets thereof, which whole or part interest is equal to or exceeds 5 percent of the total property, and assets of the organization.

(iii) A member of the board of directors or board of trustees of the entity, if the organization is organized as a corporation.
