
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.504 Contract provisions.
####### Disclosure of information.

(f)The MA organization agrees to submit-

(1) To CMS, certified financial information that must include the following:

(i) Such information as CMS may require demonstrating that the organization has a fiscally sound operation.

(ii) Such information as CMS may require pertaining to the disclosure of ownership and control of the MA organization.

(2) To CMS, all information that is necessary for CMS to administer and evaluate the program and to simultaneously establish and facilitate a process for current and prospective beneficiaries to exercise choice in obtaining Medicare services. This information includes, but is not limited to:

(i) The benefits covered under an MA plan;

(ii) The MA monthly basic beneficiary premium and MA monthly supplemental beneficiary premium, if any, for the plan or in the case of an MSA plan, the MA monthly MSA premium.

(iii) The service area and continuation area, if any, of each plan and the enrollment capacity of each plan;

(iv) Plan quality and performance indicators for the benefits under the plan including-

(A) Disenrollment rates for Medicare enrollees electing to receive benefits through the plan for the previous 2 years;

(B) Information on Medicare enrollee satisfaction;

(C) Information on health outcomes;

(D) The recent record regarding compliance of the plan with requirements of this part, as determined by CMS; and

(E) Other information determined by CMS to be necessary to assist beneficiaries in making an informed choice among MA plans and traditional Medicare;

(v) Information about beneficiary appeals and their disposition;

(vi) Information regarding all formal actions, reviews, findings, or other similar actions by States, other regulatory bodies, or any other certifying or accrediting organization;

(vii) To CMS, any other information deemed necessary by CMS for the administration or evaluation of the Medicare program.

(3) To its enrollees all informational requirements under ยง 422.64 and, upon an enrollee's, request the financial disclosure information required under ยง 422.516.
