
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### § 422.504 Contract provisions.
####### Agreement to comply with regulations and instructions.

(a)The MA organization agrees to comply with all the applicable requirements and conditions set forth in this part and in general instructions. Compliance with the terms of this paragraph (a) is material to the performance of the MA contract. The MA organization agrees-

(1) To accept new enrollments, make enrollments effective, process voluntary disenrollments, and limit involuntary disenrollments, as provided in subpart B of this part.

(2) That it will comply with the prohibition in § 422.110 on discrimination in beneficiary enrollment.

(3) To provide-

(i) The basic benefits as required under § 422.101 and, to the extent applicable, supplemental benefits under § 422.102; and

(ii) Access to benefits as required under subpart C of this part;

(iii) In a manner consistent with professionally recognized standards of health care, all benefits covered by Medicare.

(4) To disclose information to beneficiaries in the manner and the form prescribed by CMS as required under § 422.111;

(5) To operate a quality assurance and performance improvement program and have an agreement for external quality review as required under subpart D of this part;

(6) To comply with all applicable provider and supplier requirements in subpart E of this part, including provider certification requirements, anti-discrimination requirements, provider participation and consultation requirements, the prohibition on interference with provider advice, limits on provider indemnification, rules governing payments to providers, limits on physician incentive plans, and the preclusion list requirements in §§ 422.222 and 422.224.

(7) To comply with all requirements in subpart M of this part governing coverage determinations, grievances, and appeals;

(8) To comply with the reporting requirements in § 422.516 and the requirements in § 422.310 for submitting data to CMS;

(9) That it will be paid under the contract in accordance with the payment rules in subpart G of this part;

(10) To develop its annual bid, and submit all required information on premiums, benefits, and cost-sharing by not later than the first Monday in June, as provided in subpart F of this part;

(11) That its contract may not be renewed or may be terminated in accordance with this subpart and subpart N of this part.

(12) To comply with all requirements that are specific to a particular type of MA plan, such as the special rules for private fee-for-service plans in §§ 422.114 and 422.216 and the MSA requirements in §§ 422.56, 422.103, and 422.262; and

(13) To comply with the confidentiality and enrollee record accuracy requirements in § 422.118.

(14) Maintain a fiscally sound operation by at least maintaining a positive net worth (total assets exceed total liabilities).

(15) Through the CMS complaint tracking system, to address and resolve complaints received by CMS against the MA organization.

(16) To maintain administrative and management capabilities sufficient for the organization to organize, implement, and control the financial, marketing, benefit administration, and quality improvement activities related to the delivery of Part C services.

(17) To maintain a Part C summary plan rating score of at least 3 stars under the 5-star rating system specified in subpart D of this part. A Part C summary plan rating is calculated as provided in § 422.166.

(18) To comply with the requirements for access to health data and plan information under §§ 422.119 and 422.120 of this chapter.
