
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.504 Contract provisions.
####### Maintenance of records.

(d)The MA organization agrees to maintain for 10 years books, records, documents, and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices that-

(1) Are sufficient to do the following:

(i) Accommodate periodic auditing of the financial records (including data related to Medicare utilization, costs, and computation of the bid) of MA organizations.

(ii) Enable CMS to inspect or otherwise evaluate the quality, appropriateness and timeliness of services performed under the contract, and the facilities of the organization.

(iii) Enable CMS to audit and inspect any books and records of the MA organization that pertain to the ability of the organization to bear the risk of potential financial losses, or to services performed or determinations of amounts payable under the contract.

(iv) Properly reflect all direct and indirect costs claimed to have been incurred and used in the preparation of the bid proposal.

(v) Establish component rates of the bid for determining additional and supplementary benefits.

(vi) Determine the rates utilized in setting premiums for State insurance agency purposes and for other government and private purchasers; and

(2) Include at least records of the following:

(i) Ownership and operation of the MA organization's financial, medical, and other record keeping systems.

(ii) Financial statements for the current contract period and 10 prior periods.

(iii) Federal income tax or informational returns for the current contract period and 10 prior periods.

(iv) Asset acquisition, lease, sale, or other action.

(v) Agreements, contracts, and subcontracts.

(vi) Franchise, marketing, and management agreements.

(vii) Schedules of charges for the MA organization's fee-for-service patients.

(viii) Matters pertaining to costs of operations.

(ix) Amounts of income received by source and payment.

(x) Cash flow statements.

(xi) Any financial reports filed with other Federal programs or State authorities.
