
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.504 Contract provisions.
####### MA organization relationship with first tier, downstream, and related entities.

(i)(1) Notwithstanding any relationship(s) that the MA organization may have with first tier, downstream, and related entities, the MA organization maintains ultimate responsibility for adhering to and otherwise fully complying with all terms and conditions of its contract with CMS.

(2) The MA organization agrees to require all first tier, downstream, and related entities to agree that-

(i) HHS, the Comptroller General, or their designees have the right to audit, evaluate, collect, and inspect any books, contracts, computer or other electronic systems, including medical records and documentation of the first tier, downstream, and entities related to CMS' contract with the MA organization.

(ii) HHS, the Comptroller General, or their designees have the right to audit, evaluate, collect, and inspect any records under paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section directly from any first tier, downstream, or related entity.

(iii) For records subject to review under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, except in exceptional circumstances, CMS will provide notification to the MA organization that a direct request for information has been initiated.

(iv) HHS', the Comptroller General's, or their designee's right to inspect, evaluate, and audit any pertinent information for any particular contract period will exist through 10 years from the final date of the contract period or from the date of completion of any audit, whichever is later.

(v) They will ensure that payments are not made to individuals and entities included on the preclusion list, defined in ยง 422.2.

(3) All contracts or written arrangements between MA organizations and first tier, downstream, and related entities must contain the following:

(i) Enrollee protection provisions that provide, consistent with paragraph (g)(1) of this section, arrangements that prohibit providers from holding an enrollee liable for payment of any fees that are the obligation of the MA organization.

(ii) Accountability provisions that indicate that the MA organization may only delegate activities or functions to a first tier, downstream, or related entity, in a manner consistent with the requirements set forth at paragraph (i)(4) of this section.

(iii) A provision requiring that any services or other activity performed by a first tier, downstream, and related entity in accordance with a contract are consistent and comply with the MA organization's contractual obligations.

(4) If any of the MA organizations' activities or responsibilities under its contract with CMS are delegated to other parties, the following requirements apply to any first tier, downstream and related entity:

(i) Each and every contract must specify delegated activities and reporting responsibilities.

(ii) Each and every contract must either provide for revocation of the delegation activities and reporting requirements or specify other remedies in instances where CMS or the MA organization determine that such parties have not performed satisfactorily.

(iii) Each and every contract must specify that the performance of the parties is monitored by the MA organization on an ongoing basis.

(iv) Each and every contract must specify that either-

(A) The credentials of medical professionals affiliated with the party or parties will be either reviewed by the MA organization; or

(B) The credentialing process will be reviewed and approved by the MA organization and the MA organization must audit the credentialing process on an ongoing basis.

(v) All contracts or written arrangements must specify that the related entity, contractor, or subcontractor must comply with all applicable Medicare laws, regulations, and CMS instructions.

(5) If the MA organization delegates selection of the providers, contractors, or subcontractor to another organization, the MA organization's contract with that organization must state that the CMS-contracting MA organization retains the right to approve, suspend, or terminate any such arrangement.
