
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.504 Contract provisions.
####### Certification of data that determine payment.

(l)As a condition for receiving a monthly payment under subpart G of this part, the MA organization agrees that its chief executive officer (CEO), chief financial officer (CFO), or an individual delegated the authority to sign on behalf of one of these officers, and who reports directly to such officer, must request payment under the contract on a document that certifies (based on best knowledge, information, and belief) the accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of relevant data that CMS requests. Such data include specified enrollment information, encounter data, and other information that CMS may specify.

(1) The CEO, CFO, or an individual delegated the authority to sign on behalf of one of these officers, and who reports directly to such officer, must certify that each enrollee for whom the organization is requesting payment is validly enrolled in an MA plan offered by the organization and the information relied upon by CMS in determining payment (based on best knowledge, information, and belief) is accurate, complete, and truthful.

(2) The CEO, CFO, or an individual delegated with the authority to sign on behalf of one of these officers, and who reports directly to such officer, must certify (based on best knowledge, information, and belief) that the data it submits under ยง 422.310 are accurate, complete, and truthful.

(3) If such data are generated by a related entity, contractor, or subcontractor of an MA organization, such entity, contractor, or subcontractor must similarly certify (based on best knowledge, information, and belief) the accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of the data.

(4) The CEO, CFO, or an individual delegated the authority to sign on behalf of one of these officers, and who reports directly to such officer, must certify (based on best knowledge, information, and belief) that the information in its bid submission is accurate, complete, and truthful and fully conforms to the requirements in ยง 422.254.
