
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.504 Contract provisions.
####### Issuance of compliance actions for failure to comply with the terms of the contract.

(m)The MA organization acknowledges that CMS may take compliance actions as described in this section or intermediate sanctions as defined in subpart O of this part.

(1) CMS may take compliance actions as described in paragraph (m)(3) of this section if it determines that the MA organization has not complied with the terms of a current or prior Part C contract with CMS.

(i) CMS may determine that an MA organization is out of compliance with a Part C requirement when the organization fails to meet performance standards articulated in the Part C statutes, regulations in this chapter, or guidance.

(ii) If CMS has not already articulated a measure for determining noncompliance, CMS may determine that an MA organization is out of compliance when its performance in fulfilling Part C requirements represents an outlier relative to the performance of other MA organizations.

(2) CMS bases its decision on whether to issue a compliance action and what level of compliance action to take on an assessment of the circumstances surrounding the noncompliance, including all of the following:

(i) The nature of the conduct.

(ii) The degree of culpability of the MA organization.

(iii) The adverse effect to beneficiaries which resulted or could have resulted from the conduct of the MA organization.

(iv) The history of prior offenses by the MA organization or its related entities.

(v) Whether the noncompliance was self-reported.

(vi) Other factors which relate to the impact of the underlying noncompliance or the lack of the MA organization's oversight of its operations that contributed to the noncompliance.

(3) CMS may take one of three types of compliance actions based on the nature of the noncompliance.
