
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.510 Termination of contract by CMS.
####### Immediate termination of contract by CMS.

(2)(i) The procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply if-

(A) CMS determines that a delay in termination, resulting from compliance with the procedures provided in this part prior to termination, would pose an imminent and serious risk to the health of the individuals enrolled with the MA organization; or

(B) The MA organization experiences financial difficulties so severe that its ability to make necessary health services available is impaired to the point of posing an imminent and serious risk to the health of its enrollees, or otherwise fails to make services available to the extent that such a risk to health exists; or

(C) The contract is being terminated based on the grounds specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(ii) CMS notifies the MA organization in writing that its contract will be terminated on a date specified by CMS. If a termination is effective in the middle of a month, CMS has the right to recover the prorated share of the capitation payments made to the MA organization covering the period of the month following the contract termination.

(iii) CMS notifies the MA organization's Medicare enrollees in writing of CMS's decision to terminate the MA organization's contract. This notice occurs no later than 30 days after CMS notifies the plan of its decision to terminate the MA contract. CMS simultaneously informs the Medicare enrollees of alternative options for obtaining Medicare services, including alternative MA organizations in a similar geographic area and original Medicare.

(iv) CMS notifies the general public of the termination no later than 30 days after notifying the plan of CMS's decision to terminate the MA contract. This notice is published in one or more newspapers of general circulation in each community or county located in the MA organization's service area.
