
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.514 Enrollment requirements.
####### Minimum enrollment waiver.

(b)For a contract applicant that does not meet the applicable requirement of paragraph (a) of this section at application for an MA contract, CMS may waive the minimum enrollment requirement for the first 3 years of the contract. To receive a waiver, a contract applicant must demonstrate to CMS's satisfaction that it is capable of administering and managing an MA contract and is able to manage the level of risk required under the contract during the first 3 years of the contract. Factors that CMS takes into consideration in making this evaluation include the extent to which-

(1) The contract applicant management and providers have previous experience in managing and providing health care services under a risk-based payment arrangement to at least as many individuals as the applicable minimum enrollment for the entity as described in paragraph (a) of this section; or

(2) The contract applicant has the financial ability to bear financial risk under an MA contract. In determining whether an organization is capable of bearing risk, CMS considers factors such as the organization's management experience as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and stop-loss insurance that is adequate and acceptable to CMS; and

(3) The contract applicant is able to establish a marketing and enrollment process that allows it to meet the applicable enrollment requirement specified in paragraph (a) of this section before completion of the third contract year.

(c) Failure to meet enrollment requirements. CMS may elect not to renew its contract with an MA organization that fails to meet the applicable enrollment requirement in paragraph (a) of this section.
