
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.530 Plan crosswalks.
####### Exceptions.

(c)In order to perform a crosswalk that is not specified in paragraph (b) of this section, an MA organization must request an exception. Crosswalk exceptions are prohibited between different plan types. CMS reviews exception requests and may permit a crosswalk exception in the following circumstances:

(1) When a non-network or partial network Private Fee-For-Service (PFFS) plan changes to either a partial network or to a full network PFFS plan, enrollees may be moved to the new plan when CMS determines it is in the interest of beneficiaries, considering whether the risks to enrollees are such that they would be better served by remaining in the plan, whether there are other suitable managed care plans available, and whether the enrollees are particularly medically vulnerable, such as institutionalized enrollees. Crosswalks from a network based PFFS plan to a non-network or partial network PFFS plan will not be permitted.

(2) When MA contracts offered by two different MA organizations that share the same parent organization are consolidated such that the separate contracts are consolidated under one surviving contract, the enrollees from the consolidating contracts may be crosswalked to an MA plan under the surviving contract.

(3) When a renewing D-SNP with a multi-state service area reduces its service area or, in the case of a D-SNP in an MA regional plan contract, nonrenews and creates state-specific local preferred provider organization plans in its place to accommodate state contracting efforts in the service area, enrollees who are no longer in the service area may be moved into one or more new or renewing D-SNPs, offered under the same parent organization (even if the D-SNPs are offered by two different MA organizations), and for which the enrollees are eligible, as CMS determines is necessary to accommodate changes to the contracts between the state and D-SNP under ยง 422.107. For this crosswalk exception, CMS will permit enrollees to be moved between different contracts.

(4) When-

(i) A renewing D-SNP has another new or renewing D-SNP, and the two D-SNPs are offered to different populations, enrollees who are no longer eligible for their current D-SNP may be moved into the other new or renewing D-SNP offered by the same MA organization if they meet the eligibility criteria for the new or renewing D-SNP and CMS determines it is in the best interest of the enrollees to move to the new or renewing D-SNP in order to promote access to and continuity of care for enrollees relative to the absence of a crosswalk exception. For the crosswalk exception in this paragraph (c)(4)(i), CMS does not permit enrollees to be moved between different contracts; or

(ii) An MA organization creates a new MA contract when required by a State as described in ยง 422.107(e), eligible enrollees may be moved from the existing D-SNP that is non-renewing, reducing its service area, or has its eligible population newly restricted by a State, to a D-SNP offered under the D-SNP-only contract, which must be of the same plan type operated by the same parent organization. For the crosswalk exception in this paragraph (c)(4)(ii), CMS permits enrollees to be moved between different contracts.

(5) Renewing C-SNP with a grouping of multiple conditions that is transitioning eligible enrollees into another C-SNP with one of the chronic conditions from that grouping.
