
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts for Medicare Advantage Organizations
###### ยง 422.530 Plan crosswalks.
####### Renewal with a service area reduction (SAR).

(iv)(A) A plan in the following contract year that links to a current contract year plan and only retains a portion of its plan service area. The following contract year plan must retain the same plan ID as the current contract year plan. The crosswalk is limited to the enrollees in the remaining service area.

(B) While the MA organization may not affirmatively crosswalk enrollees in the locations that will no longer be part of the service area, the MA organization may offer those affected enrollees in the reduced portion of the service area a continuation in accordance with ยง 422.74(b)(3)(ii), provided that there are no other MA plan options in the reduced service area.

(C) If the MA organization offers another PBP in the locations that will no longer be part of the service area, current enrollees in the locations that will no longer be part of the service area must be disenrolled and the MA organization must send a non-renewal notice that includes notification of a special enrollment period under ยง 422.62 and, for applicable enrollees, Medigap guaranteed issue rights.

(D) The MA organization may offer current enrollees in the locations that will no longer be part of the service area the option of enrolling in the other plan(s) the MA organization offers in the location that is no longer part of the service area, however, no specific plan information for the following contract year may be shared with any beneficiaries prior to the plan marketing period for the next contract year, consistent with 42 CFR 422.2263 and 423.2263.
