
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### Requirements Applicable to Certain Integrated Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans
####### § 422.629 General requirements for applicable integrated plans.
######## Parties.

(l)(1) The following individuals or entities can request an integrated grievance, integrated organization determination, and integrated reconsideration, and are parties to the case:

(i) The enrollee.

(ii) The enrollee's representative, including any person authorized under State law.

(2) When the term "enrollee" is used throughout §§ 422.629 through 422.634, it includes providers that file a request and authorized representatives consistent with this paragraph, unless otherwise specified.

(3) A provider who is providing treatment to the enrollee may, upon providing notice to the enrollee, request a standard or expedited pre-service integrated reconsideration on behalf of an enrollee.

(4) The following individuals or entities may request an integrated reconsideration and are parties to the case:

(i) An assignee of the enrollee (that is, a physician or other provider who has furnished or intends to furnish a service to the enrollee and formally agrees to waive any right to payment from the enrollee for that service).

(ii) Any other provider or entity (other than the applicable integrated plan) who has an appealable interest in the proceeding.
