
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### Requirements Applicable to Certain Integrated Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans
####### ยง 422.629 General requirements for applicable integrated plans.
######## Recordkeeping.

(h)(1) The applicable integrated plan must maintain records of integrated grievances and integrated appeals. Each applicable integrated plan that is a Medicaid managed care organization must review the Medicaid-related information as part of its ongoing monitoring procedures, as well as for updates and revisions to the State quality strategy.

(2) The record of each integrated grievance or integrated appeal must contain, at a minimum:

(i) A general description of the reason for the integrated appeal or integrated grievance.

(ii) The date of receipt.

(iii) The date of each review or, if applicable, review meeting.

(iv) Resolution at each level of the integrated appeal or integrated grievance, if applicable.

(v) Date of resolution at each level, if applicable.

(vi) Name of the enrollee for whom the integrated appeal or integrated grievance was filed.

(vii) Date the applicable integrated plan notified the enrollee of the resolution.

(3) The record of each integrated grievance or integrated appeal must be accurately maintained in a manner accessible to the State and available upon request to CMS.
