
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### Requirements Applicable to Certain Integrated Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans
####### ยง 422.630 Integrated grievances.
######## Resolution and notice.

(e)(1) The applicable integrated plan must resolve standard integrated grievances as expeditiously as the case requires, based on the enrollee's health status, but no later than 30 calendar days from the date it receives the integrated grievance.

(i) All integrated grievances submitted in writing must be responded to in writing.

(ii) Integrated grievances submitted orally may be responded to either orally or in writing, unless the enrollee requests a written response.

(iii) All integrated grievances related to quality of care, regardless of how the integrated grievance is filed, must be responded to in writing. The response must include a description of the enrollee's right to file a written complaint with the QIO with regard to Medicare covered services. For any complaint submitted to a QIO, the applicable integrated plan must cooperate with the QIO in resolving the complaint.

(2) The timeframe for resolving the integrated grievance may be extended by 14 calendar days if the enrollee requests an extension or if the applicable integrated plan justifies the need for additional information and documents how the delay is in the interest of the enrollee. When the applicable integrated plan extends the timeframe, it must-

(i) Make reasonable efforts to promptly notify the enrollee orally of the reasons for the delay; and

(ii) Send written notice to the enrollee of the reasons for the delay immediately, but no later than within 2 calendar days of making the decision to extend the timeframe to resolve the integrated grievance. This notice must explain the right to file an integrated grievance if the enrollee disagrees with the decision to delay.
