
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### Requirements Applicable to Certain Integrated Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans
####### ยง 422.631 Integrated organization determinations.
######## Timeframes and notice,Integrated organization determination notice.

(d)-(1)(i) The applicable integrated plan must send an enrollee a written notice of any adverse decision on an integrated organization determination (including a determination to authorize a service or item in an amount, duration, or scope that is less than the amount previously requested or authorized for an ongoing course of treatment) within the timeframes set forth in this section.

(ii) For an integrated organization determination not reached within the timeframes specified in this section (which constitutes a denial and is thus an adverse decision), the applicable integrated plan must send a notice on the date that the timeframes expire. Such notice must describe all applicable Medicare and Medicaid appeal rights.

(iii) Integrated organization determination notices must be written in plain language, be available in a language and format that is accessible to the enrollee, and explain the following:

(A) The applicable integrated plan's determination.

(B) The date the determination was made.

(C) The date the determination will take effect.

(D) The reasons for the determination.

(E) The enrollee's right to file an integrated reconsideration and the ability for someone else to file an appeal on the enrollee's behalf.

(F) Procedures for exercising enrollee's rights to an integrated reconsideration.

(G) Circumstances under which expedited resolution is available and how to request it.

(H) If applicable, the enrollee's rights to have benefits continue pending the resolution of the integrated appeal process.
