
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### Requirements Applicable to Certain Integrated Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans
####### ยง 422.633 Integrated reconsiderations.
######## Expedited integrated reconsiderations.

(e)(1) Applicable integrated plans must accept requests to expedite integrated reconsiderations from either of the following:

(i) An enrollee.

(ii) A provider making the request on behalf of an enrollee, when the request is not a request for expedited payment.

(2) The request can be oral or in writing.

(3) The applicable integrated plan must grant the request to expedite the integrated reconsideration when it determines (for a request from the enrollee), or the provider indicates (in making the request on the enrollee's behalf or supporting the enrollee's request), that taking the time for a standard resolution could seriously jeopardize the enrollee's life, physical or mental health, or ability to attain, maintain, or regain maximum function.

(4) If an applicable integrated plan denies an enrollee's request for an expedited integrated reconsideration, it must automatically transfer a request to the standard timeframe and make the determination within the 30-day timeframe established in paragraph (f)(1) of this section for a standard integrated reconsideration. The 30-day period begins with the day the applicable integrated plan receives the request for expedited integrated reconsideration. The applicable integrated plan must give the enrollee prompt oral notice of the decision, and give the enrollee written notice within 2 calendar days. The written notice must do all of the following:

(i) Include the reason for the denial.

(ii) Inform the enrollee of the right to file a grievance if the enrollee disagrees with the decision not to expedite, including timeframes and procedures for filing a grievance.

(iii) Inform the enrollee of the right to resubmit a request for an expedited determination with any physician's support.

(5) If the applicable integrated plan must receive medical information from noncontract providers, the applicable integrated plan must request the necessary information from the noncontract provider within 24 hours of the initial request for an expedited integrated reconsideration. Noncontract providers must make reasonable and diligent efforts to expeditiously gather and forward all necessary information to assist the applicable integrated plan in meeting the required timeframe. Regardless of whether the applicable integrated plan must request information from noncontract providers, the applicable integrated plan is responsible for meeting the timeframe and notice requirements of this section.
