
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.560 Basis and scope.
####### Statutory basis.

(a)(1) Section 1852(f) of the Act provides that an MA organization must establish meaningful grievance procedures.

(2) Section 1852(g) of the Act establishes requirements that an MA organization must meet concerning organization determinations and appeals.

(3) Section 1869 of the Act specifies the amount in controversy needed to pursue a hearing and judicial review and authorizes representatives to act on behalf of individuals that seek appeals. These provisions are incorporated for MA appeals by section 1852(g)(5) of the Act and part 405 of this chapter.

(4) Section 1859(f)(8) of the Act provides for, to the extent feasible, unifying grievances and appeals procedures under sections 1852(f), 1852(g), 1902(a)(3), 1902(a)(5), and 1932(b)(4) of the Act for Medicare and Medicaid covered items and services provided by specialized MA plans for special needs individuals described in subsection 1859(b)(6)(B)(ii) of the Act for individuals who are eligible under titles XVIII and XIX of the Act. Beginning January 1, 2021, procedures established under section 1859(f)(8) of the Act apply in place of otherwise applicable grievances and appeals procedures with respect to Medicare and Medicaid covered items and services provided by applicable integrated plans.
