
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.562 General provisions.
####### 3

() Assisting the enrollee in making contact with the enrollee's fee-for-service contact or Medicaid managed care plan.

(B) Assisting a beneficiary in filing a Medicaid grievance or a Medicaid appeal.

(C) Assisting an enrollee in obtaining documentation to support a request for authorization of Medicaid services or a Medicaid appeal.

(ii) The dual eligible special needs plan must offer to provide the assistance described in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section whenever it becomes aware of an enrollee's need for a Medicaid-covered service. Offering such assistance is not dependent on an enrollee's specific request.

(iii) The dual eligible special needs plan must offer to provide and actually provide assistance as required by paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section using multiple methods.

(A) When an enrollee accepts the offer of assistance described in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, the dual eligible special needs plan may coach the enrollee on how to self-advocate.

(B) The dual eligible special needs plan must also provide an enrollee reasonable assistance in completing forms and taking procedural steps related to Medicaid grievances and appeals.

(iv) The dual eligible special needs plan must, upon request from CMS, provide documentation demonstrating its compliance with this paragraph (a)(5).

(v) The obligation to provide assistance under paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section does not create an obligation for a dual eligible special needs plan to represent an enrollee in a Medicaid appeal.
