
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.562 General provisions.
####### When other regulations apply.

(d)(1) Unless this subpart provides otherwise and subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the regulations in part 405 of this chapter (concerning the administrative review and hearing processes and representation of parties under titles II and XVIII of the Act) apply under this subpart to the extent they are appropriate.

(2) The following regulations in part 405 of this chapter, and any references thereto, specifically do not apply under this subpart:

(i) Section 405.950 (time frames for making a redetermination).

(ii) Section 405.970 (time frames for making a reconsideration following a contractor redetermination, including the option to escalate an appeal to the OMHA level).

(iii) Section 405.1016 (time frames for deciding an appeal of a QIC reconsideration, or escalated request for a QIC reconsideration, including the option to escalate an appeal to the Council).

(iv) The option to request that an appeal be escalated from the OMHA level to the Council as provided in ยง 405.1100(b), and time frames for the Council to decide an appeal of an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or an appeal that is escalated from the OMHA level to the Council as provided in ยง 405.1100(c) and (d).

(v) Section 405.1132 (request for escalation to Federal court).

(vi) Sections 405.956(b)(8), 405.966(a)(2), 405.976(b)(5)(ii), 405.1018(c), 405.1028(a), and 405.1122(c), and any other reference to requiring a determination of good cause for the introduction of new evidence by a provider, supplier, or a beneficiary represented by a provider or supplier.

(3) For the sole purpose of applying the regulations at ยง 405.1038(c) of this chapter, an MA organization is included in the definition of "contractors" as it relates to stipulated decisions.
