
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### § 422.562 General provisions.
####### Rights of MA enrollees.

(b)In accordance with the provisions of this subpart, enrollees have the following rights:

(1) The right to have grievances between the enrollee and the MA organization heard and resolved, as described in § 422.564 or, beginning January 1, 2021, § 422.630, as applicable.

(2) The right to a timely organization determination, as provided under § 422.566 or, beginning January 1, 2021, § 422.631(c), as applicable.

(3) The right to request an expedited organization determination, as provided under §§ 422.570 or, beginning January 1, 2021, § 422.631(e), as applicable.

(4) If dissatisfied with any part of an organization determination, the following appeal rights:

(i) The right to a reconsideration of the adverse organization determination by the MA organization, as provided under § 422.578 or, beginning January 1, 2021, § 422.633, as applicable.

(ii) The right to request an expedited reconsideration, as provided under § 422.584 or, beginning January 1, 2021, § 422.633(e), as applicable.

(iii) If, as a result of a reconsideration, an MA organization affirms, in whole or in part, its adverse organization determination, the right to an automatic reconsidered determination made by an independent, outside entity contracted by CMS, as provided in § 422.592.

(iv) The right to an ALJ hearing if the amount in controversy is met, as provided in § 422.600.

(v) The right to request Council review of the ALJ hearing decision, as provided in § 422.608.

(vi) The right to judicial review of the hearing decision if the amount in controversy is met, as provided in § 422.612.
