
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Basic Requirements
###### ยง 51.5 Eligibility for allotment.
####### et seq.

(a) Federal financial assistance for protection and advocacy activities for individuals with mental illness will be given only to a System that has been established under Part C of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6041,) and designated in accordance with 45 CFR part 1386, subpart B.

(b) The P&A system must meet the requirements of sections 105 and 111 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 10805 and 10821) and that P&A system must be operational. Each system shall submit an application at the beginning of each PAIMI authorization period. This application shall contain at a minimum the program priorities and budget for the first year of the authorization period and the required assurances and certifications. Thereafter, the system shall submit yearly updates of the budget and program priorities for the upcoming fiscal year through its annual report.

(c) Written assurances of compliance with sections 105 and 111 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 10805 and 10821) and other requirements of the Act and this part shall be submitted by the P&A system in the format designated by the Director. These assurances will remain in effect for the period specified in the application for funds unless changes occur within the State which affect the functioning of the P&A system, in which case an amendment will be required 30 days prior to the effective date of the change. The P&A system shall also provide the Department the name of the designated official.

(d) The Governor's written assurance that the allotments made available under the Act will be used to supplement and not to supplant the level of non-Federal funds available in the State to protect and advocate the rights of individuals with mental illness shall be submitted by the P&A system. The Governor may provide this assurance along with the assurances provided to ADD under 45 CFR part 1386, as long as it can reasonably be construed as applying to the PAIMI program. Any future "supplement and not supplant" assurance shall explicitly refer to the PAIMI program.
