
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Basic Requirements
###### ยง 51.6 Use of allotments.

(a) Allotments must be used to supplement and not to supplant the level of non-Federal funds available in the State to protect and advocate the rights of individuals with mental illness.

(b) Allotments may not be used to support lobbying activities to influence proposed or pending Federal legislation or appropriations. This restriction does not affect the right of any P&A system, organization or individual to petition Congress or any other government body or official using other resources.

(c) Allotments may not be used to produce or distribute written, audio or visual materials or publicity intended or designed to support or defeat any candidate for public office.

(d) If an eligible P&A system is a public entity, that P&A system shall not be required by the State to obligate more than five percent of its annual allotment for State oversight administrative expenses under this grant such as costs of internal or external evaluations, monitoring or auditing. This restriction does not include:

(1) Salaries, wages and benefits of program staff;

(2) Costs associated with attending governing board or advisory council meetings; or

(3) Expenses associated with the provision of training or technical assistance for staff, contractors, members of the governing board or advisory council.

(e) No more than ten percent of each annual allotment may be used for providing technical assistance and training, including travel expenses for staff, contractors, or members of the governing board or advisory council as defined in ยง 51.27.

(f) Allotments may be used to pay the otherwise allowable costs incurred by a P&A system in bringing lawsuits in its own right to redress incidents of abuse or neglect, discrimination, and other rights violations impacting on individuals with mental illness and when it appears on behalf of named plaintiffs or a class of plaintiffs for such purposes.
