
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.622 Requesting immediate QIO review of the decision to discharge from the inpatient hospital.
####### Responsibilities of the MA organization and hospital.

(e)(1) When the QIO notifies an MA organization that an enrollee has requested an immediate QIO review, the MA organization must, directly or by delegation, deliver a detailed notice to the enrollee as soon as possible, but no later than noon of the day after the QIO's notification. The detailed notice must include the following information:

(i) A detailed explanation of why services are either no longer reasonable and necessary or are no longer covered.

(ii) A description of any applicable Medicare coverage rule, instruction, or other Medicare policy including information about how the enrollee may obtain a copy of the Medicare policy from the MA organization.

(iii) Any applicable MA organization policy, contract provision, or rationale upon which the discharge determination was based.

(iv) Facts specific to the enrollee and relevant to the coverage determination sufficient to advise the enrollee of the applicability of the coverage rule or policy to the enrollee's case.

(v) Any other information required by CMS.

(2) Upon notification by the QIO of a request for an immediate review, the MA organization must supply any and all information, including a copy of the notices sent to the enrollee, as specified in ยง 422.620(b) and (c) and paragraph (e)(1) of this section, that the QIO needs to decide on the determination. The MA organization must supply this information as soon as possible, but no later than noon of the day after the QIO notifies the MA organization that a request for an expedited determination has been received from the enrollee. The MA organization must make the information available by phone (with a written record made of any information not transmitted initially in writing) and/or in writing, as determined by the QIO.

(3) In response to a request from the MA organization, the hospital must supply all information that the QIO needs to make its determination, including a copy of the notices required as specified in ยง 422.620(b) and (c) and paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The hospital must furnish this information as soon as possible, but no later than by close of business of the day the MA organization notifies the hospital of the request for information. At the discretion of the QIO, the hospital must make the information available by phone or in writing (with a written record of any information not transmitted initially in writing).

(4) Upon an enrollee's request, the MA organization must provide the enrollee a copy of, or access to, any documentation sent to the QIO by the MA organization, including written records of any information provided by telephone. The MA organization may charge the enrollee a reasonable amount to cover the costs of duplicating the documentation for the enrollee and/or delivering the documentation to the enrollee. The MA organization must accommodate such a request by no later than close of business of the first day after the day the material is requested.
