
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### § 422.622 Requesting immediate QIO review of the decision to discharge from the inpatient hospital.
####### Coverage during QIO expedited review.

(f)(1) An MA organization is financially responsible for coverage of services as provided in this paragraph, regardless of whether it has delegated responsibility for authorizing coverage or discharge determinations to its providers.

(2) When the MA organization determines that hospital services are not, or are no longer, covered,

(i) If the MA organization authorized coverage of the inpatient admission directly or by delegation (or the admission constitutes emergency or urgently needed care, as described in §§ 422.2 and 422.112(c)), the MA organization continues to be financially responsible for the costs of the hospital stay when an appeal is filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section until noon of the day after the QIO notifies the enrollee of its review determination, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. If coverage of the hospital admission was never approved by the MA organization or the admission does not constitute emergency or urgently needed care as described in §§ 422.2 and 422.112(c), the MA organization is liable for the hospital costs only if it is determined on appeal that the hospital stay should have been covered under the MA plan.

(ii) The hospital may not charge the MA organization (or the enrollee) if-

(A) It was the hospital (acting on behalf of the enrollee) that filed the request for immediate QIO review; and

(B) The QIO upholds the non-coverage determination made by the MA organization.

(3) If the QIO determines that the enrollee still requires inpatient hospital care, the hospital must provide the enrollee with a notice consistent with § 422.620(c) of this subpart when the hospital or MA organization once again determines that the enrollee no longer requires inpatient hospital care.

(4) If the hospital determines that inpatient hospital services are no longer necessary, the hospital may not charge the enrollee for inpatient services received before noon of the day after the QIO notifies the enrollee of its review determination.
