
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.622 Requesting immediate QIO review of the decision to discharge from the inpatient hospital.
####### Procedures the QIO must follow.

(d)(1) When the QIO receives the enrollee's request for an immediate review under paragraph (b), the QIO must notify the MA organization and the hospital that the enrollee has filed a request for an immediate review.

(2) The QIO determines whether the hospital delivered valid notice consistent with ยง 422.620(b)(3).

(3) The QIO examines the medical and other records that pertain to the services in dispute.

(4) The QIO must solicit the views of the enrollee (or his or her representative) who requested the immediate QIO review.

(5) The QIO must provide an opportunity for the MA organization to explain why the discharge is appropriate.

(6) When the enrollee requests an immediate QIO review in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the QIO must make a determination and notify the enrollee, the hospital, the MA organization, and the physician of its determination within one calendar day after it receives all requested pertinent information.

(7) If the QIO does not receive the information needed to sustain an MA organization's decision to discharge, it may make its determination based on the evidence at hand, or it may defer a decision until it receives the necessary information. If this delay results in extended Medicare coverage of an individual's hospital services, the MA organization may be held financially liable for these services, as determined by the QIO.

(8) When the QIO issues its determination, the QIO must notify the enrollee, the MA organization, the physician, and hospital of its decision by telephone, followed by a written notice that must include the following information:

(i) The basis for the determination.

(ii) A detailed rationale for the determination.

(iii) An explanation of the Medicare payment consequences of the determination and the date an enrollee becomes fully liable for the services.

(iv) Information about the enrollee's right to a reconsideration of the QIO's determination as set forth in ยง 422.626(f), including how to request a reconsideration and the time period for doing so.
