
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.626 Fast-track appeals of service terminations to independent review entities (IREs).
####### Procedures an IRE must follow.

(d)(1) On the date an IRE receives the enrollee's request for an appeal, the IRE must immediately notify the MA organization and the provider that the enrollee has filed a request for a fast-track appeal, and of the MA organization's responsibility to submit documentation consistent with paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(2) When an enrollee requests a fast-track appeal, the IRE must determine whether the provider delivered a valid notice of the termination decision, and whether a detailed notice has been provided, consistent with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(3) The IRE must notify CMS about each case in which it determines that improper notification occurs.

(4) Before making its decision, the IRE must solicit the enrollee's views regarding the reason(s) for termination of services as specified in the detailed written notice provided by the MA organization, or regarding any other reason that the IRE uses as the basis of its review determination.

(5) An IRE must make a decision on an appeal and notify the enrollee, the MA organization, and the provider of services, by close of business of the day after it receives the information necessary to make the decision. If the IRE does not receive the information needed to sustain an MA organization's decision to terminate services, it may make a decision on the case based on the information at hand, or it may defer its decision until it receives the necessary information. If the IRE defers its decision, coverage of the services by the MA organization would continue until the decision is made, consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, but no additional termination notice would be required.
