
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Organization Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 422.626 Fast-track appeals of service terminations to independent review entities (IREs).
####### Responsibilities of the MA organization.

(e)(1) When an IRE notifies an MA organization that an enrollee has requested a fast-track appeal, the MA organization must send a detailed notice to the enrollee by close of business of the day of the IRE's notification. The detailed termination notice must include the following information:

(i) A specific and detailed explanation why services are either no longer reasonable and necessary or are no longer covered.

(ii) A description of any applicable Medicare coverage rule, instruction or other Medicare policy including citations, to the applicable Medicare policy rules, or the information about how the enrollee may obtain a copy of the Medicare policy from the MA organization.

(iii) Any applicable MA organization policy, contract provision, or rationale upon which the termination decision was based.

(iv) Facts specific to the enrollee and relevant to the coverage determination that are sufficient to advise the enrollee of the applicability of the coverage rule or policy to the enrollee's case.

(v) Any other information required by CMS.

(2) Upon an enrollee's request, the MA organization must provide the enrollee a copy of, or access to, any documentation sent to the IRE by the MA organization, including records of any information provided by telephone. The MA organization may charge the enrollee a reasonable amount to cover the costs of duplicating the information for the enrollee and/or delivering the documentation to the enrollee. The MA organization must accommodate such a request by no later than close of business of the first day after the day the material is requested.

(3) Upon notification by the IRE of a fast-track appeal, the MA organization must supply any and all information, including a copy of the notice sent to the enrollee, that the IRE needs to decide on the appeal. The MA organization must supply this information as soon as possible, but no later than by close of business of the day that the IRE notifies the MA organization that an appeal has been received from the enrollee. The MA organization must make the information available by phone (with a written record made of what is transmitted in this manner) and/or in writing, as determined by the IRE.

(4) An MA organization is financially responsible for coverage of services as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, regardless of whether it has delegated responsibility for authorizing coverage or termination decisions to its providers.
