
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Program Administration and Priorities
###### ยง 51.22 Governing authority.

(a) Each P&A system shall have a governing authority responsible for its planning, designing, implementing and functioning. It shall, jointly with the advisory council, annually establish program priorities and policies.

(b) If the P&A system is organized with a multi-member governing board:

(1) Each P&A system shall establish policies and procedures for the selection of its governing board members and for the board evaluation of the P&A system director. The terms of board members shall be staggered and for 4 years except that any member appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall serve for the remainder of such term. A member who has been appointed for a term of 4 years may not be reappointed to the governing board during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which such 4-year term expired.

(2) The board shall be composed of members who broadly represent or are knowledgeable about the needs of the clients served by the P&A system and shall include a significant representation of individuals with mental illness who are, or have been eligible for services, or have received or are receiving mental health services, and family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of such individuals.

(3) If the governing authority is organized as a private nonprofit entity, the chairperson of the advisory council shall be a member of the governing board.

(c) Continuing efforts shall be made to include members of racial and ethnic minority groups as board members.

(d) Any member of the advisory council may also serve on the governing board.
