
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Program Administration and Priorities
###### § 51.23 Advisory council.

(a) Each P&A system shall establish an advisory council to:

(1) Provide independent advice and recommendations to the system.

(2) Work jointly with the governing authority in the development of policies and priorities.

(3) Submit a section of the system's annual report as required under § 51.8.

(b) Members of the council shall include attorneys, mental health professionals, individuals from the public who are knowledgeable about mental illness, the advocacy needs of persons with mental illness and have demonstrated a substantial commitment to improving mental health services, a provider of mental health services, individuals who have received or are receiving mental health services and family members of such individuals. Continuing efforts shall be made to include members of racial and ethnic minority groups on the advisory council.

(1) At least 60 percent of the membership of the advisory council shall be comprised of individuals who have received or are receiving mental health services or who are family members of such individuals. At least one family member shall be a primary care giver for an individual who is currently a minor child or youth who is receiving or has received mental health services;

(2) The council shall be chaired by an individual who has received or is receiving mental health services or who is a family member of such an individual;

(3) The advisory council shall meet no less than three times annually. The terms of council members shall be staggered and for 4 years except that any member appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall serve for the remainder of such term. A member who has been appointed for a term of 4 years may not be reappointed to the council during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which such 4-year term expired.

(c) Each P&A system shall provide its advisory council with reports, materials and fiscal data to enable review of existing program policies, priorities and performance outcomes. Such submissions shall be made at least annually and shall report expenditures for the past two fiscal years, as well as projected expenses for the next fiscal year, identified by budget category (e.g., salary and wages, contract for services, administrative expenses) including the amount allotted for training of each the advisory council, governing board and staff.

(d) Reimbursement of expenses. (1) Allotments may be used to pay for all or a part of the expenses incurred by members of the advisory council in order to participate in its activities. Expenses may include transportation costs, parking, meals, hotel costs, per diem expenses, stipends or subsistence allowances, and the cost of day care or child care (or its equivalent for the child's travel and subsistence expenses) for their dependents with mental illness or developmental disabilities.

(2) Each P&A system shall establish its own policies and procedures for reimbursement of expenses of council members, taking into account the needs of individual council members, available resources, and applicable restrictions on use of grant funds, including the restrictions in §§ 51.31(e) and 51.6(e).
