
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Protection and Advocacy Services
###### ยง 51.31 Conduct of protection and advocacy activities.

(a) Consistent with State and Federal law and the canons of professional ethics, a P&A system may use any appropriate technique and pursue administrative, legal or other appropriate remedies to protect and advocate on behalf of individuals with mental illness to address abuse, neglect or other violations of rights.

(b) A P&A system shall establish policies and procedures to guide and coordinate advocacy activities. The P&A system shall not implement a policy or practice restricting the remedies which may be sought on behalf of individuals with mental illness or compromising the authority of the P&A system to pursue such remedies through litigation, legal action or other forms of advocacy. However, this requirement does not prevent the P&A system from placing limitations on case or client acceptance criteria developed as part of the annual priorities. Prospective clients must be informed of any such limitations at the time they request service.

(c) Wherever possible, the program should establish an ongoing presence in residential mental health care or treatment facilities, and relevant hospital units.

(d) Program activities should be carried out in a manner which allows program staff to:

(1) Interact regularly with those individuals who are current or potential recipients of protection and advocacy services;

(2) Interact regularly with staff providing care or treatment;

(3) Obtain information and review records; and

(4) Communicate with family members, social and community service workers and others involved in providing care or treatment.

(e) A P&A system may support or provide training, including related travel expenses, for individuals with mental illness, family members of such individuals, and other persons who are not program staff, contractors, or board or council members, to increase knowledge about protection and advocacy issues, to enhance leadership capabilities, or to promote Federal-State and intra-State cooperation on matter related to mental health system improvement. Decisions concerning the selection of individuals to receive such training shall be made in accordance with established policies, procedures and priorities of the P&A system.

(f) A P&A system may monitor, evaluate and comment on the development and implementation of Federal, State and local laws, regulations, plans, budgets, levies, projects, policies and hearings affecting individuals with mental illness as a part of federally funded advocacy activities. A P&A system shall carry out systemic advocacy-those efforts to implement changes in policies and practices of systems that impact persons with mental illness.

(g) Determination of "probable cause" may result from P&A system monitoring or other activities, including observation by P&A system personnel, and reviews of monitoring and other reports prepared by others whether pertaining to individuals with mental illness or to general conditions affecting their health or safety.

(h) A P&A which is a public P&A system shall be free from hiring freezes, reductions in force, prohibitions on staff travel, or other policies imposed by the State to the extend that such policies would impact program staff or activities funded with Federal dollars and would prevent the P&A system from carrying out its mandates under the Act.

(i) A P&A system may exercise its authority under State law where the authority exceeds the authority required by the Act. However, State law must not diminish the required authority of the Act.
