
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2262 General communications materials and activities requirements.
####### Standardized material identification (SMID).

(d)(1) MA organizations must use a standardized method of identification for oversight and tracking of materials received by beneficiaries.

(2) The SMID consists of the following three parts:

(i) The MA organization contract or Multi-Contract Entity (MCE) number (that is, "H" for MA or Section 1876 Cost Plans, "R" for Regional PPO plans (RPPOs), or "Y" for MCE, a means of identification available for Plans/Part D sponsors that have multiple MA contracts) followed by an underscore, except that the SMID for multi-plan marketing materials must begin with the word "MULTI-PLAN" instead of the MA organization's contract number (for example, H1234_abc123_C or MULTI-PLAN_efg456_M).

(ii) A series of alpha numeric characters (chosen at the MA organization's discretion) unique to the material followed by an underscore.

(iii) An uppercase "C" for communications materials or an uppercase "M" for marketing materials (for example, H1234_abc123_C or H5678_efg456_M).

(3) The SMID is required on all materials except the following:

(i) Membership ID card.

(ii) Envelopes, radio ads, outdoor advertisements, banners, banner-like ads, and social media comments and posts.

(iii) OMB-approved forms/documents, except those materials specified in ยง 422.2267.

(iv) Corporate notices or forms (that is, not MA/Part D specific) meeting the definition of communications (see ยง 422.2260) such as privacy notices and authorization to disclose protected health information (PHI).

(v) Agent-developed communications materials that are not marketing.

(4) Non-English and alternate format materials, based on previously created materials, may have the same SMID as the material on which they are based.
