
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2262 General communications materials and activities requirements.
####### General rules.

(a)MA organizations must ensure their statements and the terminology used in communications activities and materials adhere to the following requirements:

(1) MA organizations may not do any of the following:

(i) Provide information that is inaccurate or misleading.

(ii) Make unsubstantiated statements, except when used in logos or taglines.

(iii) Engage in activities that could mislead or confuse Medicare beneficiaries, or misrepresent the MA organization.

(iv) Engage in any discriminatory activity such as attempting to recruit Medicare beneficiaries from higher income areas without making comparable efforts to enroll Medicare beneficiaries from lower income areas, or vice versa.

(v) Target potential enrollees based on income levels, unless it is a dual eligible special needs plan or comparable plan as determined by the Secretary.

(vi) Target potential enrollees based on health status, unless it is a special needs plan or comparable plan as determined by the Secretary.

(vii) State or imply plans are only available to seniors rather than to all Medicare beneficiaries.

(viii) Employ MA plan names that suggest that a plan is not available to all Medicare beneficiaries, unless it is a special needs plan or comparable plan as determined by the Secretary. This prohibition does not apply to MA plan names in effect prior to July 31, 2000.

(ix) Display the names or logos or both of co-branded network providers on the organization's member identification card, unless the provider names or logos or both are related to the member selection of specific provider organizations (for example, physicians or hospitals).

(x) Use a plan name that does not include the plan type. The plan type should be included at the end of the plan name, for example, "Super Medicare Advantage (HMO)." MA organizations are not required to repeat the plan type when the plan name is used multiple times in the same material.

(xi) Claim they are recommended or endorsed by CMS, Medicare, the Secretary, or HHS.

(xii) Convey that a failure to pay premium will not result in disenrollment, except for factually accurate descriptions of the MA organization's policies adopted in accordance with ยง 422.74(b)(1) and (d)(1) of this chapter.

(xiii) Use the term "free" to describe a $0 premium, any type of reduction in premium, reduction in deductibles or cost sharing, low-income subsidy, or cost sharing pertaining to dual eligible individuals.

(xiv) Imply that the plan operates as a supplement to Medicare.

(xv) State or imply a plan is available only to or is designed for beneficiaries who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid, unless it is a dual-eligible special needs plan or comparable plan as determined by the Secretary.

(xvi) Market a non-dual eligible special needs plan as if it were a dual-eligible special needs plan.

(xvii) Target marketing efforts primarily to dual eligible individuals, unless the plan is a dual eligible special needs plan or comparable plan as determined by the Secretary.

(xviii) Claim a relationship with the state Medicaid agency, unless a contract to coordinate Medicaid services for enrollees in that plan is in place.

(2) MA organizations may do the following:

(i) State that the MA organization is approved to participate in Medicare programs or is contracted to administer Medicare benefits or both.

(ii) Use the term "Medicare-approved" to describe benefits or services in materials or both.

(iii) Use the term "free" in conjunction with mandatory, supplemental, and preventative benefits provided at a zero cost share for all enrollees.
