
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2264 Beneficiary contact.
####### Events with beneficiaries.

(c)MA organizations and their agents or brokers may hold educational events, marketing or sales events, and personal marketing appointments to meet with Medicare beneficiaries, either face-to-face or virtually. The requirements for each type of event are as follows:

(1) Educational events must be advertised as such and be designed to generally inform beneficiaries about Medicare, including Medicare Advantage, Prescription Drug programs, or any other Medicare program.

(i) At educational events, MA organizations and agents/brokers may not market specific MA plans or benefits.

(ii) MA organizations holding or participating in educational events may do any of the following:

(A) Distribute communications materials.

(B) Answer beneficiary-initiated questions pertaining to MA plans.

(C) Set up future personal marketing appointments.

(D) Distribute business cards.

(E) Obtain beneficiary contact information, including Scope of Appointment forms.

(iii) MA organizations holding or participating in educational events may not conduct sales or marketing presentations or distribute or accept plan applications.

(iv) MA organizations may schedule appointments with residents of long-term care facilities (for example, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, board and care homes) upon a resident's request. If a resident did not request an appointment, any visit by an agent or broker is prohibited as unsolicited door-to-door marketing.

(2) Marketing or sales events are group events that fall within the definition of marketing at ยง 422.2260.

(i) If a marketing event directly follows an educational event, the beneficiary must be made aware of the change and given the opportunity to leave prior to the marketing event beginning.

(ii) MA organizations holding or participating in marketing events may do any of the following:

(A) Provide marketing materials.

(B) Distribute and accept plan applications.

(C) Collect Scope of Appointment forms for future personal marketing appointments.

(D) Conduct marketing presentations.

(iii) MA organizations holding or participating in marketing events may not do any of the following:

(A) Require sign-in sheets or require attendees to provide contact information as a prerequisite for attending an event.

(B) Conduct activities, including health screenings, health surveys, or other activities that are used for or could be viewed as being used to target a subset of members (that is, "cherry-picking").

(C) Use information collected for raffles or drawings for any purpose other than raffles or drawings.

(3) Personal marketing appointments are those appointments that are tailored to an individual or small group (for example, a married couple). Personal marketing appointments are not defined by the location.

(i) Prior to the personal marketing appointment beginning, the MA plan (or agent or broker, as applicable) must agree upon and record the Scope of Appointment with the beneficiary(ies).

(ii) MA organizations holding a personal marketing appointment may do any of the following:

(A) Provide marketing materials.

(B) Distribute and accept plan applications.

(C) Conduct marketing presentations.

(D) Review the individual needs of the beneficiary including, but not limited to, health care needs and history, commonly used medications, and financial concerns.

(iii) MA organizations holding a personal marketing appointment may not do any of the following:

(A) Market any health care related product during a marketing appointment beyond the scope agreed upon by the beneficiary, and documented by the plan, prior to the appointment.

(B) Market additional health related lines of plan business not identified prior to an individual appointment without a separate Scope of Appointment identifying the additional lines of business to be discussed.

(C) Market non-health related products, such as annuities.
