
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2265 Websites.
####### Required content.

(b)MA organization's websites must include the following content:

(1) A toll-free customer service number, TTY number, and days and hours of operation.

(2) A physical or Post Office Box address.

(3) A PDF or copy of a printable provider directory.

(4) A searchable provider directory.

(5) When applicable, a searchable pharmacy directory combined with a provider directory.

(6) Information on enrollees' and MA organizations' rights and responsibilities upon disenrollment. MA organizations may either post this information or provide specific information on where it is located in the Evidence of Coverage together with a link to that document.

(7) A description of and information on how to file a grievance, request an organization determination, and an appeal.

(8) Prominently displayed link to the Medicare.gov electronic complaint form.

(9) Disaster and emergency policy consistent with ยง 422.100(m)(5)(iii).

(10) A Notice of Privacy Practices as required under the HIPAA Privacy Rule (45 CFR 164.520).

(11) For PFFS plans, a link to the PFFS Terms and Conditions of Payment.

(12) For MSA plans, the following statements:

(i) "You must file Form 1040, `US Individual Income Tax Return,' along with Form 8853, `Archer MSA and Long-Term Care Insurance Contracts' with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for any distributions made from your Medicare MSA account to ensure you aren't taxed on your MSA account withdrawals. You must file these tax forms for any year in which an MSA account withdrawal is made, even if you have no taxable income or other reason for filing a Form 1040. MSA account withdrawals for qualified medical expenses are tax free, while account withdrawals for non-medical expenses are subject to both income tax and a fifty (50) percent tax penalty."
