
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2266 Activities with healthcare providers or in the healthcare setting.
####### Plan-initiated provider activities.

(d)Plan-initiated provider activities are those activities conducted by a provider at the request of an MA organization. During a plan-initiated provider activity, the provider is acting on behalf of the MA organization. For the purpose of plan-initiated activities, the MA organization is responsible for compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements.

(1) During plan-initiated provider activities, MA organizations must ensure that the provider does not:

(i) Accept or collect Scope of Appointment forms.

(ii) Accept Medicare enrollment applications.

(iii) Make phone calls or direct, urge, or attempt to persuade their patients to enroll in a specific plan based on financial or any other interests of the provider.

(iv) Mail marketing materials on behalf of the MA organization.

(v) Offer inducements to persuade patients to enroll in a particular MA plan or organization.

(vi) Conduct health screenings as a marketing activity.

(vii) Distribute marketing materials or enrollment forms in areas where care is being delivered.

(viii) Offer anything of value to induce enrollees to select the provider.

(ix) Accept compensation from the MA organization for any marketing or enrollment activities performed on behalf of the MA organization.

(2) During plan-initiated provider activities, the provider may do any of the following:

(i) Make available, distribute, and display communications materials, including in areas where care is being delivered.

(ii) Provide or make available marketing materials and enrollment forms in common areas.
