
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2267 Required materials and content.
####### Non-renewal Notice.

(10)This is a model communications material through which plans must provide the information required under ยง 422.506.

(i) The Non-renewal Notice must be provided at least 90 calendar days before the date on which the nonrenewal is effective. For contracts ending on December 31, the notice must be dated October 2 to ensure national consistency in the application of Medigap Guaranteed Issue (GI) rights to all enrollees, except for those enrollees in special needs plans (SNPs). Information about non-renewals or service area reductions may not be released to the public, including the Non-renewal Notice, until CMS provides notification to the plan.

(ii) The Non-renewal Notice must do all of the following:

(A) Inform the enrollee that the plan will no longer be offered and the date the plan will end.

(B) Provide information about any applicable open enrollment periods or special election periods or both (for example, Medicare open enrollment, non-renewal special election period), including the last day the enrollee has to make a Medicare health plan selection.

(C) Explain what the enrollee must do to continue receiving Medicare coverage and what will happen if the enrollee chooses to do nothing.

(D) As required under ยง 422.506(a)(2)(ii)(A), provide a CMS-approved written description of alternative MA plan, MA-PD plan, and PDP options available for obtaining qualified Medicare services within the beneficiary's' region in the enrollee's notice.

(E) Specify when coverage will start after a new Medicare plan is chosen.

(F) List 1-800-MEDICARE contact information together with other organizations that may be able to assist with comparing plans (for example, SHIPs).

(G) Explain Medigap to applicable enrollees and the special right to buy a Medigap policy, and include a Medigap fact sheet with the non-renewal notice that explains Medigap coverage, policy, options to compare Medigap policies, and options to buy a Medigap policy.

(H) Include the MA organization's call center telephone number, TTY number, and hours and days of operation.
