
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart V - Medicare Advantage Communication Requirements
###### ยง 422.2267 Required materials and content.
####### Multi-language insert (MLI).

(31)This is a standardized communications material which states, "We have free interpreter services to answer any questions you may have about our health or drug plan. To get an interpreter, just call us at [1-xxx-xxx-xxxx]. Someone who speaks [language] can help you. This is a free service." in the following languages: Spanish, Chinese, Tagalog, French, Vietnamese, German, Korean, Russian, Arabic, Italian, Portuguese, French Creole, Polish, Hindi, and Japanese.

(i) Additional languages that meet the 5-percent service area threshold, as required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, must be added to the MLI used in that service area. A plan may also opt to include in the MLI any additional language that do not meet the 5-percent service area threshold, where it determines that this inclusion would be appropriate.

(ii) The MLI must be provided with all required materials under paragraph (e) of this section.

(iii) The MLI may be included as a part of the required material or as a standalone material in conjunction with the required material.

(iv) When used as a standalone material, the MLI may include organization name and logo.

(v) When mailing multiple required materials together, only one MLI is required.

(vi) The MLI may be provided electronically when a required material is provided electronically as permitted under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
