
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart X - Requirements for a Minimum Medical Loss Ratio
###### ยง 422.2420 Calculation of the medical loss ratio.
####### Incurred claims for clinical services and prescription drug costs.

(2)Incurred claims must include the following:

(i) Amounts that the MA organization pays (including under capitation contracts) for covered services, described at paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provided to all enrollees under the contract.

(ii) For an MA contract that includes MA-PD plans (described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), drug costs provided to all enrollees under the contract, as defined at ยง 423.2420(b)(2)(i) of this chapter.

(iii) Unpaid claims reserves for the current contract year, including claims reported in the process of adjustment.

(iv) Percentage withholds from payments made to contracted providers.

(v) Incurred but not reported claims based on past experience, and modified to reflect current conditions such as changes in exposure, claim frequency or severity.

(vi) Changes in other claims-related reserves.

(vii) Claims that are recoverable for anticipated coordination of benefits.

(viii) Claims payments recoveries received as a result of subrogation.

(ix) [Reserved]

(x) Reserves for contingent benefits and the medical claim portion of lawsuits.

(xi) The amount of incentive and bonus payments made to providers.

(3) Adjustments that must be deducted from incurred claims include the following:

(i) Overpayment recoveries received from providers.
