
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 422 - MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM
##### Subpart X - Requirements for a Minimum Medical Loss Ratio
###### § 422.2420 Calculation of the medical loss ratio.
####### Determining the MLR denominator.

(c)For a contract year, the denominator of the MLR for an MA contract must equal the total revenue under the contract. Total revenue under the contract is as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, net of deductions described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, taking into account the exclusions described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and n accordance with paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section.

(1) CMS' payments to the MA organization for all enrollees under a contract, reported on a direct basis, including the following:

(i) Payments under § 422.304(a)(1) through (3) and (c).

(ii) The amount applied to reduce the Part B premium, as provided under § 422.266(b)(3).

(iii) Payments under § 422.304(b)(1), as reconciled per § 423.329(c)(2)(ii) of this chapter.

(iv) All premiums paid by or on behalf of enrollees to the MA organization as a condition of receiving coverage under an MA plan, including CMS' payments for low income premium subsidies under § 422.304(b)(2).

(v) All unpaid premium amounts that an MA organization could have collected from enrollees in the MA plan(s) under the contract.

(vi) All changes in unearned premium reserves.

(vii) Payments under § 423.315(e) of this chapter.

(2) The following amounts must be deducted from total revenue in calculating the MLR:
