
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 423.1 Basis and scope.
####### Basis.

(a)(1) This part is based on the indicated provisions of the following sections of the Social Security Act:

1106. Disclosure of Information in Possession of Agency.

1128J(d). Reporting and Returning of Overpayments.

1860D-1. Eligibility, enrollment, and information.

1860D-2. Prescription drug benefits.

1860D-3. Access to a choice of qualified prescription drug coverage.

1860D-4. Beneficiary protections for qualified prescription drug coverage.

1860D-11. PDP regions; submission of bids; plan approval.

1860D-12. Requirements for and contracts with prescription drug plan (PDP) sponsors.

1860D-13. Premiums; late enrollment penalty.

1860D-14. Premium and cost-sharing subsidies for low-income individuals.

1860D-14A. Medicare coverage gap discount program.

1860D-15. Subsidies for Part D eligible individuals for qualified prescription drug coverage.

1860D-16. Medicare Prescription Drug Account in the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

1860D-21. Application to Medicare Advantage program and related managed care programs.

1860D-22. Special rules for Employer-Sponsored Programs

1860D-23. State pharmaceutical assistance programs.

1860D-24. Coordination requirements for plans providing prescription drug coverage.

1860D-31. Medicare prescription drug discount card and transitional assistance program.

1860D-41. Definitions; treatment of references to provisions in Part C.

1860D-42. Miscellaneous provisions.

1860D-43. Condition for coverage of drugs under this part.

(2) The following specific sections of the Medicare Modernization Act also address the prescription drug benefit program:

Sec. 102 Medicare Advantage conforming amendments.

Sec. 103 Medicaid amendments.

Sec. 104 Medigap.

Sec. 109 Expanding the work of Medicare Quality Improvement Organizations to include Parts C and D.

(3) Section 1611 of Title 8 of the United States Code regarding individuals who are not lawfully present and ineligible for Federal public benefits.
