
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 423.4 Definitions.
####### Inappropriate prescribing

means that, after consideration of all the facts and circumstances of a particular situation identified through investigation or other information or actions taken by Medicare Advantage (MA) organizations and Part D plan sponsors, there is an established pattern of potential fraud, waste, and abuse related to prescribing of opioids, as reported by the plan sponsors. Beneficiaries with cancer and sickle-cell disease, as well as those patients receiving hospice and long term care (LTC) services are excluded, when determining inappropriate prescribing. Plan sponsors may consider any number of factors including, but not limited, to the following:

(1) Documentation of a patient's medical condition.

(2) Identified instances of patient harm or death.

(3) Medical records, including claims (if available).

(4) Concurrent prescribing of opioids with an opioid potentiator in a manner that increases risk of serious patient harm.

(5) Levels of morphine milligram equivalent (MME) dosages prescribed.

(6) Absent clinical indication or documentation in the care management plan or in a manner that may indicate diversion.

(7) State-level prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) data.

(8) Geography, time, and distance between a prescriber and the patient.

(9) Refill frequency and factors associated with increased risk of opioid overdose.
