
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart B - Eligibility and Enrollment
###### ยง 423.56 Procedures to determine and document creditable status of prescription drug coverage.
####### Types of coverage.

(b)The following coverage is considered creditable if it meets the definition provided in paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Prescription drug coverage under a PDP or MA-PD plan.

(2) Medicaid coverage under title XIX of the Act or under a waiver under section 1115 of the Act.

(3) Coverage under a group health plan, including the Federal employees health benefits program, and qualified retiree prescription drug plans as defined in section 1860D-22(a)(2) of the Act.

(4) Coverage under State Pharmaceutical

Assistance Programs (SPAP) as defined at ยง 423.454.

(5) Coverage of prescription drugs for veterans, survivors and dependents under chapter 17 of title 38, U.S.C.

(6) Coverage under a Medicare supplemental policy (Medigap policy) as defined at ยง 403.205 of this chapter.

(7) Military coverage under chapter 55 of title 10,

U.S.C., including TRICARE.

(8) Individual health insurance coverage (as defined in section 2791(b)(5) of the Public Health Service Act) that includes coverage for outpatient prescription drugs and that does not meet the definition of an excepted benefit (as defined in section 2791(c) of the Public Health Service Act).

(9) Coverage provided by the medical care program of the Indian Health Service, Tribe or Tribal organization, or Urban Indian organization (I/T/U).

(10) Coverage provided by a PACE organization.

(11) Coverage provided by a cost-based HMO or CMP under part 417 of this chapter.

(12) Coverage provided through a State High-Risk Pool as defined under 42 CFR 146.113(a)(1)(vii).

(13) Other coverage as the Secretary may determine appropriate.
