
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 423.100 Definitions.
####### Preclusion list

means a CMS compiled list of prescribers who-

(1) Meet all of the following requirements:

(i) The prescriber is currently revoked from Medicare for a reason other than that stated in ยง 424.535(a)(3) of this chapter.

(ii) The prescriber is currently under a reenrollment bar under ยง 424.535(c) of this chapter.

(iii) CMS determines that the underlying conduct that led to the revocation is detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program. In making this determination under this paragraph (1)(iii), CMS considers the following factors:

(A) The seriousness of the conduct underlying the prescriber's revocation;

(B) The degree to which the prescriber's conduct could affect the integrity of the Part D program; and

(C) Any other evidence that CMS deems relevant to its determination; or

(2) Meet both of the following requirements:

(i) The prescriber has engaged in behavior, other than that described in ยง 424.535(a)(3) of this chapter, for which CMS could have revoked the individual to the extent applicable had he or she been enrolled in Medicare.

(ii) CMS determines that the underlying conduct that would have led to the revocation is detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program. In making this determination under this paragraph, CMS considers all of the following factors:

(A) The seriousness of the conduct involved.

(B) The degree to which the prescriber's conduct could affect the integrity of the Part D program.

(C) Any other evidence that CMS deems relevant to its determination; or

(3) The prescriber, regardless of whether he or she is or was enrolled in Medicare, has been convicted of a felony under Federal or State law within the previous 10 years that CMS deems detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program. Factors that CMS considers in making such a determination under this paragraph are as follows:

(i) The severity of the offense.

(ii) When the offense occurred.

(iii) Any other information that CMS deems relevant to its determination.
