
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 51b.103 What are the general application requirements?

(a) The project application shall contain a full description of the program objectives, plans, and activities. With respect to programs authorized by section 317 of the Act only, the application shall also provide, as the Secretary may require:

(1) The amount of Federal, State, and other funds obligated by the applicant in its latest annual accounting period for the provision of such program.

(2) A description of the services provided by the applicant for this accounting period covered under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) The amount of Federal funds needed by the applicant to continue providing these services.

(4) A description of any proposed changes in the provision of the services, reasons and priorities, and the amount of Federal funds needed by the applicant to make the changes.

(b) The application shall contain evidence satisfactory to the Secretary that it has been submitted, as appropriate, for action to the planning agency designated by the Secretary under title XV of the Act (42 CFR parts 122 and 123). These grants are subject to the intergovernmental review of Federal programs of Executive Order 12372.

(c) The application shall contain assurances that no one will be denied services because of inability to pay, and that the services are provided in a manner which preserves human dignity and maximizes acceptance.
