
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 51b.106 What other conditions apply to these grants?

(a) The notice of grant award specifies how long HHS intends to support the project without requiring the project to recompete for funds. This period, called the project period, will usually be for 2 to 5 years.

(b) For budgetary and funding purposes, the project period is generally divided into 12-month intervals called budget periods. A grantee must submit a separate application to have the support continued for each subsequent budget period after the initial award. Decisions regarding continuation awards and the funding level of such awards will be made after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices and the availability of funds. In all cases, continuation awards require a determination by HHS that continued funding is in the best interest of the government.

(c) Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any grant commits or obligates the United States in any way to make any additional, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application.

(d) Any funds granted pursuant to this subpart shall be expended solely for the purposes for which the funds were granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles prescribed in 45 CFR part 75, subpart E.

(e) The Secretary may, at the time of award, impose additional conditions, including conditions governing the use of information or consent forms, when, in the Secretary's judgment, they are necessary to advance the approved program, the interest of the public health, or the conservation of grant funds.
