
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 423.120 Access to covered Part D drugs.
####### Development and revision by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee.

(1)A Part D sponsor's formulary must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee that-

(i) Includes a majority of members who are practicing physicians and/or practicing pharmacists.

(ii) Includes at least one practicing physician and at least one practicing pharmacist who are independent and free of conflict relative to-

(A) The Part D sponsor and Part D plan; and

(B) Pharmaceutical manufacturers.

(iii) Includes at least one practicing physician and one practicing pharmacist who are experts regarding care of elderly or disabled individuals.

(iv) Clearly articulates and documents processes to determine that the requirements under paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section have been met, including the determination by an objective party of whether disclosed financial interests are conflicts of interest and the management of any recusals due to such conflicts.

(v) Bases clinical decisions on the strength of scientific evidence and standards of practice, including assessing peer-reviewed medical literature, pharmacoeconomic studies, outcomes research data, and other such information as it determines appropriate.

(vi) Considers whether the inclusion of a particular Part D drug in a formulary or formulary tier has any therapeutic advantages in terms of safety and efficacy.

(vii) Reviews policies that guide exceptions and other utilization management processes, including drug utilization review, quantity limits, generic substitution, and therapeutic interchange.

(viii) Evaluates and analyzes treatment protocols and procedures related to the plan's formulary at least annually consistent with written policy guidelines and other CMS instructions.

(ix) Documents in writing its decisions regarding formulary development and revision and utilization management activities.

(x) Reviews and approves all clinical prior authorization criteria, step therapy protocols, and quantity limit restrictions applied to each covered Part D drug.

(xi) Meets other requirements consistent with written policy guidelines and other CMS instructions.

(2) Provision of an Adequate Formulary. A Part D plan's formulary must-

(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (v) of this section, include within each therapeutic category and class of Part D drugs at least two Part D drugs that are not therapeutically equivalent and bioequivalent, with different strengths and dosage forms available for each of those drugs, except that only one Part D drug must be included in a particular category or class of covered Part D drugs if the category or class includes only one Part D drug.

(ii) Include at least one Part D drug within a particular category or class of Part D drugs to the extent the Part D plan demonstrates, and CMS approves, the following-

(A) That only two drugs are available in that category or class of Part D drugs; and

(B) That one drug is clinically superior to the other drug in that category or class of Part D drugs.

(iii) Include adequate coverage of the types of drugs most commonly needed by Part D enrollees, as recognized in national treatment guidelines.

(iv) Be approved by CMS consistent with ยง 423.272(b)(2).

(v) Until such time as there are established, through notice and comment rulemaking, criteria to identify, as appropriate, categories and classes of clinical concern, the categories and classes of clinical concern are as specified in section 1860D-4(b)(3)(G)(iv) of the Act.

(vi) Exceptions to paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section are as follows:

(A) Drug or biological products that are rated as either of the following:
