
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 423.120 Access to covered Part D drugs.
####### 4

() Current enrollees remaining in the plan affected by formulary changes.

(B) Not apply in cases in which a Part D sponsor substitutes a generic drug for a brand name drug as permitted under paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section.

(ii) Ensure access to a temporary supply of drugs within the first 90 days of coverage under a new plan. This 90 day timeframe applies to retail, home infusion, long-term care and mail-order pharmacies,

(iii) Ensure the provision of a temporary fill when an enrollee requests a fill of a non-formulary drug during the time period specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section (including Part D drugs that are on a plan's formulary but require prior authorization or step therapy under a plan's utilization management rules) by providing a one-time, temporary supply of at least an approved month's supply of medication, unless the prescription is written by a prescriber for less than an approved month's supply and requires the Part D sponsor to allow multiple fills to provide up to a total of an approved month's supply of medication.

(iv) Ensure written notice is provided to each affected enrollee within 3 business days after adjudication of the temporary fill. For long-term care residents dispensed multiple supplies of a Part D drug, in increments of 14-days-or-less, consistent with the requirements under ยง 423.154, the written notice must be provided within 3 business days after adjudication of the first temporary fill.

(v) Ensure that reasonable efforts are made to notify prescribers of affected enrollees who receive a transition notice under paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section.

(vi) A Part D sponsor must charge cost sharing for a temporary supply of drugs provided under its transition process such that the following conditions are met:

(A) For low-income subsidy (LIS) enrollees, a sponsor must not charge higher cost sharing for transition supplies than the statutory maximum copayment amounts.

(B) For non-LIS enrollees, a sponsor must charge-
