
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Grants for Childhood Immunization Programs
###### ยง 51b.204 What information is required in the application?

(a) The initial application must cover the project period, and must include a description of the following:

(1) The need for grant support.

(2) The immediate (1 year budget period) and long-range (2-5 year project period) objectives of the project in specific and measurable terms.

(3) Current immunization programs and the additional or intensified activities to be carried out to meet the objectives and priorities.

(4) The following program elements should be included and described:

(i) A plan to assure that children begin and complete their immunizations on schedule, including the use of a standard immunization record card, a provider-based tickler system (public and private) for the recall of children, and a hospital-based immunization education program for new mothers.

(ii) Assessment of immunization status of school enterers, children attending licensed day-care centers, and children under 2 years of age and new enrollees under age 5 served in public clinics.

(iii) A plan for surveillance of vaccine-preventable diseases that includes morbidity and mortality reporting as well as field and laboratory investigations.

(iv) Procedures for prompt review of the data collected from the morbidity surveillance system to allow for immediate response to all occurrence of suspected diphtheria and polio cases upon notification and response to suspected measles cases within 48 hours.

(v) A system for monitoring vaccine-associated reactions including a mechanism for responding to persons with vaccine-related complaints.

(vi) A plan to systematically immunize susceptible children at school entry through vigorous enforcement of school immunization laws.

(5) The manner in which the applicant intends to evaluate the project.

(b) An application for a continuation grant must be submitted for each funding period. This continuation application must include the following:

(1) A budget and justification for the grant funds requested.

(2) A summary of the progress achieved during the previous budget period.

(3) A description of any changes in the information shown in the project application.
