
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 423.120 Access to covered Part D drugs.
####### 2

() Correct the NPI.

(B) If the pharmacy confirms that the NPI is active and valid or corrects the NPI, the sponsor must pay the claim if it is otherwise payable.

(iii) A Part D sponsor must not later recoup payment from a network pharmacy for a claim that does not contain an active and valid individual prescriber NPI on the basis that it does not contain one, unless the sponsor-

(A) Has complied with paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section;

(B) Has verified that a submitted NPI was not in fact active and valid; and

(C) The agreement between the parties explicitly permits such recoupment.

(iv) With respect to requests for reimbursement submitted by Medicare beneficiaries, a Part D sponsor may not make payment to a beneficiary dependent upon the sponsor's acquisition of an active and valid individual prescriber NPI, unless there is an indication of fraud. If the sponsor is unable to retrospectively acquire an active and valid individual prescriber NPI, the sponsor may not seek recovery of any payment to the beneficiary solely on that basis.

(6)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section, a Part D sponsor must reject, or must require its PBM to reject, a pharmacy claim for a Part D drug if the individual who prescribed the drug is included on the preclusion list, defined in ยง 423.100.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section, a Part D sponsor must deny, or must require its PBM to deny, a request for reimbursement from a Medicare beneficiary if the request pertains to a Part D drug that was prescribed by an individual who is identified by name in the request and who is included on the preclusion list, defined in ยง 423.100.

(iii) A Part D plan sponsor may not submit a prescription drug event (PDE) record to CMS unless it includes on the PDE record the active and valid individual NPI of the prescriber of the drug, and the prescriber is not included on the preclusion list, defined in ยง 423.100, for the date of service.

(iv) With respect to Part D prescribers who have been added to an updated preclusion list but are not currently excluded by the OIG, the Part D plan sponsor must do all of the following:

(A) Subject to all other Part D rules and plan coverage requirements, and no later than 30 days after the posting of this updated preclusion list, must provide an advance written notice to any beneficiary who has received a Part D drug prescribed by an individual added to the preclusion list in this update and whom the plan sponsor has identified during the applicable 30-day period.
