
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart C - Benefits and Beneficiary Protections
###### § 423.120 Access to covered Part D drugs.
####### Treatment of compounded drug products.

(d)With respect to multi-ingredient compounds, a Part D sponsor must-

(1) Make a determination as to whether the compound is covered under Part D.

(i) A compound that contains at least one ingredient covered under Part B as prescribed and dispensed or administered is considered a Part B compound, regardless of whether other ingredients in the compound are covered under Part B as prescribed and dispensed or administered.

(ii) Only compounds that contain at least one ingredient that independently meets the definition of a Part D drug, and that do not meet the criteria under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, may be covered under Part D. For purposes of this paragraph (d) these compounds are referred to as Part D compounds.

(iii) For a Part D compound to be considered on-formulary, all ingredients that independently meet the definition of a Part D drug must be considered on-formulary (even if the particular Part D drug would be considered off-formulary if it were provided separately-that is, not as part of the Part D compound).

(iv) For a Part D compound that is considered off-formulary-

(A) Transition rules apply such that all ingredients in the Part D compound that independently meet the definition of a Part D drug must become payable in the event of a transition fill under § 423.120(b)(3); and

(B) All ingredients that independently meet the definition of a Part D drug must be covered if an exception under § 423.578(b) is approved for coverage of the compound.

(2) Establish consistent rules for beneficiary payment liabilities for both ingredients of the Part D compound that independently meet the definition of a Part D drug and non-Part D ingredients.

(i) For low income subsidy beneficiaries the copayment amount is based on whether the most expensive ingredient that independently meets the definition of a Part D drug in the Part D compound is a generic or brand name drug (as described under § 423.782).

(ii) For any non-Part D ingredient of the Part D compound (including drugs described under § 423.104(f)(1)(ii)(A)), the Part D sponsor's contract with the pharmacy must prohibit balance billing the beneficiary for the cost of any such ingredients.
