
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Grants for Venereal Disease Control Programs
###### ยง 51b.405 What information is required in the application?

(a) The initial application must include a description of the following:

(1) The nature and extent of the venereal disease problem in the area.

(2) The need for project grant support.

(3) The immediate (1-year budget period) and long-range (2-5 year project period) objectives of the project in specific and measurable terms.

(4) The activities to be carried out to meet the objectives. The following program elements must be included and described:

(i) Venereal disease surveillance.

(ii) Casefinding and case followup.

(iii) Interstate epidemiologic referral and followup.

(iv) Public venereal disease information and education.

(v) Professional (including appropriate allied health personnel) venereal disease education, training, and clinical skills improvement activities, including efforts to assure high quality clinical services in public venereal disease clinics.

(5) At the option of the applicant, special studies or demonstrations to evaluate or test venereal disease prevention and control strategies and activities.

(6) The manner in which the applicant intends to conduct and evaluate the project, including a system for analysis of morbidity data so that control activities can be efficiently evaluated and targeted.

(7) The diagnostic and treatment services that will be provided.

(8) A budget and justification for the grant funds requested. Since public information and education activities are authorized separately from other control program activities, funds requested for this purpose must be itemized and justified separately in the narrative part of the application.

(b) An application for a continuation grant must be submitted for each funding period. This continuation application must include the following:

(1) A budget and justification for the grant funds requested.

(2) A summary of the progress achieved during the previous budget period.

(3) A description of any changes in the information shown in the project application.
