
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Grants for Venereal Disease Control Programs
###### ยง 51b.407 How can grant funds be used?

Grant funds awarded under this subpart may be used only for programs approved under section 318(c), and with respect to public information and education, those programs approved under section 318(b) of the Act. Unless specifically approved, grant funds shall not be used for performing diagnostic tests (other than gonorrhea screening tests), maintaining central registries, purchasing data processing equipment, or providing diagnostic and treatment facilities and services. The applicant must provide assurances, however, that these services will be available as needed as an adjunct to control program activities supported with grant funds. To obtain special approval for grant support of such activities, the grantee shall justify the exception to the satisfaction of the Secretary that funds for this purpose are necessary for the proper conduct of the program and are otherwise unavailable. Support of these services will generally be approved only in the following situations:

(a) Special studies or demonstrations, (b) the support of developmental or start-up activity, or (c) the support of an essential service which will result in a savings to a detection or prevention activity supported by the grant. Unless otherwise approved, exceptions based on paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are only allowed during one funding period. The grantee is expected to support these activities in subsequent funding periods.
