
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart D - Cost Control and Quality Improvement Requirements
###### ยง 423.153 Drug utilization management, quality assurance, medication therapy management programs (MTMPs), drug management programs, and access to Medicare Parts A and B claims data extracts.
####### Purposes.

(3)A PDP sponsor must comply with all laws that may be applicable to data received under this provision, including State and Federal privacy and security laws, and, furthermore subject to the limitations in paragraph (g)(4) of this section may only use or disclose the data provided by CMS under paragraph (g)(1) of this section for the following purposes:

(i) To optimize therapeutic outcomes through improved medication use, as such phrase is used in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.

(ii) To improve care coordination so as to prevent adverse health outcomes, such as preventable emergency department visits and hospital readmissions.

(iii) For activities falling under paragraph (1) of the definition of "health care operations" under 45 CFR 164.501.

(iv) For activities falling under paragraph (2) of the definition of "health care operations" under 45 CFR 164.501.

(v) For "fraud and abuse detection or compliance activities" under 45 CFR 164.506(c)(4)(ii).

(vi) For disclosures that qualify as "required by law" disclosures at 45 CFR 164.103.
