
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Grants for Research, Demonstrations, and Public Information and Education for the Prevention and Control of Venereal Disease
###### ยง 51b.604 What information is required in the application?

(a) The initial application must include a description of the following:

(1) The setting and circumstances for which project grant support is being requested, including:

(i) The immediate and long-range objectives of the project in specific and measurable terms.

(ii) The activities which will be undertaken to accomplish the objectives, including the timing of these activities.

(iii) The anticipated application of findings to the national venereal disease control effort.

(iv) Any other information which will support the request for grant assistance.

(2) The relationship between the planned activities and the project objectives. The application must describe in detail how the applicant intends to proceed, particularly if the project is unusually complex and several activities are interdependent or unprecedented.

(3) A comprehensive and realistic plan which the applicant will use to evaluate the project. The plan must include periodic assessment of any possible impact, both positive and negative, that the proposed project might have upon the established venereal disease control program in the locality or localities in which the project will be undertaken.

(b) An application for a continuation grant must be submitted for each funding period. This continuation application must include the following:

(1) A budget and justification for the grant funds requested.

(2) A summary of the progress achieved during the previous budget period.

(3) A description of any changes in the information shown in the project application.
