
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51b - PROJECT GRANTS FOR PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Grants for Research, Demonstrations, and Public Information and Education for the Prevention and Control of Venereal Disease
###### ยง 51b.605 How will grant applications be evaluated and the grants awarded?

(a) Within the limits of funds available, the Secretary may award a grant to assist in meeting the costs of special activities authorized under section 318(b) of the Act.

(b) Grant applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria:

(1) Is there adequate evidence that the proposed project is needed and that the outcome has potential to directly benefit the national venereal disease control effort?

(2) Are the project objectives specific, measurable, realistic, time phased, and related to promoting the purposes of section 318?

(3) Is the method of operation logical and clearly related to project objectives, and does it describe how the applicant intends to proceed particularly with activities which are complex, interrelated, or unprecedented?

(4) Does the method of operation include an assessment of any possible impact, both positive and negative, that the conduct of the proposed initiative might have upon the established venereal disease control program in the locality or localities in which the project will be undertaken?

(5) Does the proposal include a comprehensive and realistic plan for the evaluation of the project, and specify the measures and instruments of measurement to be used?

(6) Is the budget request reasonable and consistent with the intended use of grant funds?

(7) If the applicant intends only to evaluate an existing disease prevention and control approach, are the objectives substantially different from those which could be met by routine program evaluation?
