
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart F - Submission of Bids and Monthly Beneficiary Premiums; Plan Approval
###### ยง 423.265 Submission of bids and related information.
####### Actuarial value of bid components.

(2)The applicant must provide the following information on bid components, as well as actuarial certification that the values are calculated according to CMS guidelines on actuarial valuation, including adjustment for the effect that providing alternative prescription drug coverage (rather than defined standard prescription drug coverage) has on drug utilization, if applicable.

(i) The actuarial value of the qualified prescription drug coverage to be offered under each plan for a Part D eligible individual with a national average risk profile for the factors described in ยง 423.329(b)(1) and the basis for the estimate.

(ii) The portion of the bid attributable to basic prescription drug coverage and the portion (if any) attributable to supplemental benefits.

(iii) The assumptions regarding reinsurance amounts payable under ยง 423.329(c) used in calculating the bid.

(iv) The assumptions regarding low-income cost-sharing payable under ยง 423.329(d) used in calculating the bid.

(v) The amount of administrative costs and return on investment or profit included in the bid.
