
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51c - GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 51c.104 Application.

(a) An application for a grant under this part shall be submitted to the Secretary at such time and in such form and manner as the Secretary may prescribe.

(b) The application shall contain a budget and narrative plan of the manner in which the applicant intends to conduct the project and carry out the requirements of this part. The application must describe how and the extent to which the project has met, or plans to meet, each of the requirements in subpart B (relating to grants for planning and developing community health centers), subpart C (relating to grants for the operation of community health centers), or subpart D (relating to grants for the operation of community health projects), as applicable. In addition, applications must include:

(1) A statement of specific, measurable objectives and the methods to be used to assess the achievement of the objectives in specified time periods and at least on an annual basis.

(2) The precise boundaries of the catchment area to be served by the applicant, including an identification of the medically underserved population or populations within the catchment area. In addition, the application shall include information sufficient to enable the Secretary to determine that the applicant's catchment area meets the following criteria:

(i) The size of such area is such that the services to be provided by the applicant are available and accessible to the residents of the area promptly and as appropriate;

(ii) The boundaries of such area conform, to the extent practicable, to relevant boundaries of political subdivisions, school districts, and areas served by Federal and State health and social service programs; and

(iii) The boundaries of such area eliminate, to the extent possible, barriers resulting from the area's physical characteristics, its residential patterns, its economic and social groupings, and available transportation.

(3) The results of an assessment of the need that the population served or proposed to be served has for the services to be provided by the project (or in the case of applications for planning and development projects, the methods to be used in assessing such need), utilizing, but not limited to, the factors set forth in ยง 51c.102(e)(1)-(4).

(4) Position descriptions for key personnel who will be utilized in carrying out the activities of the project and a statement indicating the need for the positions to be supported with grant funds to accomplish the objectives of the project.

(5) Letters and other forms of evidence showing that efforts have been made to secure financial and professional assistance and support for the project within the proposed catchment area and the continuing involvement of the community in the development and operation of the project.

(6) An assurance that an independent certified public accountant, or a public accountant licensed before December 31, 1970, will be engaged to certify that the system for the management and control of its financial assets will be in accord with sound financial management practices, including applicable Federal requirements.

(7) A list of all services proposed to be provided by the project.

(8) A list of services which are to be provided directly by the project through its own staff and resources and a description of any contractual or other arrangements (including copies of documents, where available) entered into, or planned for the provision of services.

(9) The schedule of fees and/or payments and schedule of discounts for services provided by the project.

(10) Evidence that all applicable requirements for review and/or approval of the application under title XV of the Act have been met.

(11) An assurance that the project will be conducted in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part.

(c) The application must be executed by an individual authorized to act for the applicant and to assume on behalf of the applicant the obligations imposed by the statute, the applicable regulations of this part, and any additional conditions of the grant.
