
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart G - Payments to Part D Plan Sponsors For Qualified Prescription Drug Coverage
###### ยง 423.352 CMS-identified overpayments associated with payment data submitted by Part D sponsors.
####### Review by the Administrator.

(3)The Administrator review will be conducted in the following manner:

(i) A Part D sponsor that has received a hearing officer's decision may request review by the Administrator within 30 days of the date of issuance of the hearing officer's decision under paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section. The Part D sponsor may submit written arguments to the Administrator for review.

(ii) After receiving a request for review, the Administrator has the discretion to elect to review the hearing officer's determination in accordance with paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section or to decline to review the hearing officer's decision.

(iii) If the Administrator declines to review the hearing officer's decision, the hearing officer's decision is final and binding.

(iv) If the Administrator elects to review the hearing officer's decision, the Administrator will review the hearing officer's decision, as well as any information included in the record of the hearing officer's decision and any written argument submitted by the Part D sponsor, and determine whether to uphold, reverse, or modify the hearing officer's decision.

(v) The Administrator's determination is final and binding.
