
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 51c - GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Grants for Planning and Developing Community Health Centers
###### ยง 51c.203 Project elements.

A project for the planning and developing of a community health center supported under this subpart must:

(a) Prepare an assessment of the need of the population proposed to be served by the community health center for the services set forth in ยง 51c.102(c)(1) of subpart A, with special attention to the need of the medically underserved population for such services. Such assessment of need shall, at a minimum, consider the factors listed in ยง 51c.102(e)(1)-(4).

(b) Design a community health center program for such population, based on such assessment, which indicates in detail how the proposed community health center will fulfill the needs identified in the assessment prepared pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and how it will meet the requirements contained in subpart C of this part.

(c) Develop a plan for the implementation of the program designed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. Such implementation plan shall provide for the time-phased recruitment and training of the personnel essential for the operation of a community health center and the gradual assumption of operational status of the project so that the project will, in the judgment of the Secretary, meet the requirements contained in subpart C of this part as of the end of the project period.

(d) Implement the plan developed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with such paragraph.

(e) Make efforts to secure, within the proposed catchment area of such center to the extent possible, financial and professional assistance and support for the project.

(f) Initiate and encourage continuing community involvement in the development and operation of the project.

(g) Establish standards and qualifications for personnel (including the project director).

(h) Utilize, to the maximum extent feasible, other Federal, State, local, and private resources available for support of the project, prior to use of project funds under this subpart.
