
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.503 Evaluation and determination procedures.
####### Use of information from a current or prior contract.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section, if a Part D plan sponsor fails during the 12 months preceding the deadline established by CMS for the submission of contract qualification applications to comply with the requirements of the Part D program under any current or prior contract with CMS under title XVIII of the Act CMS may deny an application based on the applicant's failure to comply with the requirements of the Part D program under any current or prior contract with CMS even if the applicant currently meets all of the requirements of this part.

(i) An applicant may be considered to have failed to comply with a contract for purposes of an application denial under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if during the applicable review period the applicant:

(A) Was subject to the imposition of an intermediate sanction under subpart O of this part, or a determination by CMS to prohibit the enrollment of new enrollees under ยง 423.2410(c).

(B) Failed to maintain a fiscally sound operation consistent with the requirements of ยง 423.505(b)(23).

(C) Filed for or is currently under state bankruptcy proceedings.

(D) Received any combination of Part C or Part D summary ratings of 2.5 or less in both of the two most recent Star Rating periods, as identified in ยง 423.186.

(E) Met or exceeded 13 points for compliance actions on any one contract.
