
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.504 General provisions.
####### Construction.

(ii)For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), an entity is treated as submitting an application to become qualified to contract as a full risk or limited risk PDP sponsor, if the entity is acting as a subcontractor for an integral part of the drug benefit management activities of a full risk or limited risk PDP sponsor or applicant. The previous sentence does not apply to entities that are subcontractors of an MA organization except insofar as the MA organization is applying to act as a full risk or limited risk PDP sponsor.

(8) If neither the applicant, nor its parent or another subsidiary of the same parent, holds a Part D sponsor contract that has been in effect for at least 1 year at the time it submits an application, the applicant must have arrangements in place such that the applicant and its contracted first tier, downstream, or related entities, in combination, have at least 1 full-benefit year of experience within the 2 years preceding the application submission performing at a minimum all of the following functions in support of the operation of another Part D contract:

(i) Authorization, adjudication, and processing of prescription drug claims at the point of sale.

(ii) Administration and tracking of enrollees' drug benefits in real time, including automated coordination of benefits with other payers.

(iii) Operation of an enrollee appeals and grievance process.

(9) For organizations applying to offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, the organization, its parent, or a subsidiary of the organization or its parent, must have either of the following:

(i) For 2 continuous years immediately prior to submitting an application, actively offered health insurance or health benefits coverage, including prescription drug coverage, as a risk-bearing entity in at least one State.

(ii) For 5 continuous years immediately prior to submitting an application, actively managed prescription drug benefits for an organization that offers health insurance or health benefits coverage, including at a minimum, all of the services listed in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(10) Pass an essential operations test prior to the start of the benefit year. This provision only applies to new sponsors that have not previously entered into a Part D contract with CMS when neither it, nor another subsidiary of the applicant's parent organization, is offering Part D benefits during the current year.
