
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### § 423.505 Contract provisions.
####### Requirements for contracts.

(b)The Part D plan sponsor agrees to-

(1) All the applicable requirements and conditions set forth in this part and in general instructions.

(2) Accept new enrollments, make enrollments effective, process voluntary disenrollments, and limit involuntary disenrollments, as provided in subpart B of this part.

(3) Comply with the prohibition in § 423.34(a) on discrimination in beneficiary enrollment.

(4) Provide the basic prescription drug coverage as defined under § 423.100 and, to the extent applicable, supplemental benefits as defined in § 423.100. (Fallback entities may offer only standard prescription drug coverage as specified in § 423.855.)

(5) Disclose information to beneficiaries in the manner and the form specified by CMS under § 423.128.

(6) Operate quality assurance, cost and utilization management, medication therapy management, and support e-prescribing as required under subpart D of this part.

(7) Comply with all requirements in subpart M of this part governing coverage determinations, grievances, and appeals, and formulary exceptions.

(8) Comply with the disclosure and reporting requirements in § 423.505(f), § 423.514, and the requirements in § 423.329(b) of this part for submitting current and prior drug claims and related information to CMS for its use in risk adjustment calculations and for the purposes of implementing § 423.505(f), (l), and (m) and § 423.329(b) of this part.

(9) Provide CMS with the information CMS determines is necessary to carry out payment provisions in subpart G of this part (or for fallback entities, the information necessary to carry out the payment provisions in subpart Q of this part).

(10) Allow CMS to inspect and audit any books and records of a Part D plan sponsor and its delegated first tier, downstream and related entities, that pertain to the information regarding costs provided to CMS under paragraph (b)(9) of this section, or, if a fallback entity, the information submitted under subpart Q of this part.

(11) Be paid under the contract in accordance with the payment rules in subpart G of this part, or, if a fallback entity, in accordance with the payment rules of subpart Q of this part.

(12) Except for fallback entities, submit a future year's bid, including all required information on premiums, benefits, and cost-sharing, by any applicable due date, as provided in subpart F so that CMS and the Part D plan sponsor may conduct negotiations regarding the terms and conditions of the proposed bid and benefit plan renewal.

(13) Permit CMS to determine that it is not qualified to renew its contract or that its contract may be terminated in accordance with this subpart and subpart N of this part. (Subpart N applies to fallback entities only to the extent a fallback contract is terminated.)

(14) Comply with the confidentiality and enrollee record accuracy specified in § 423.136.

(15) Comply with State law and preemption by Federal law requirements described in subpart I of this part.

(16) Comply with the coordination requirements with SPAPs and plans that provide other prescription drug coverage as described in subpart J of this part.

(17) Provide benefits by means of point of service systems to adjudicate in a drug claims in a timely and efficient manner in compliance with CMS standards, except when necessary to provide access in underserved areas, I/T/U pharmacies (as defined in § 423.100), and long-term care pharmacies (as defined in § 423.100).

(18) To agree to have a standard contract with reasonable and relevant terms and conditions of participation whereby any willing pharmacy may access the standard contract and participate as a network pharmacy including all of the following:

(i) Making standard contracts available upon request from interested pharmacies no later than September 15 of each year for contracts effective January 1 of the following year.

(ii) Providing a copy of a standard contract to a requesting pharmacy within 7 business days after receiving such a request from the pharmacy.

(19) Effective contract year 2010, include the prompt payment provisions described in § 423.520.

(20) Effective contract year 2010, provide that pharmacies located in, or having a contract with, a long-term care facility (as defined in § 423.100) must have not less than 30 days, nor more than 90 days, to submit to the Part D sponsor claims for reimbursement under the plan.

(21)(i) Update any prescription drug pricing standard (as defined in § 423.501) based on the cost of the drug used for reimbursement of network pharmacies by the Part D sponsor on January 1 of each contract year and not less frequently than once every 7 days thereafter;

(ii) Indicate the source used for making any such updates; and

(iii) Disclose all individual drug prices to be updated to the applicable pharmacies in advance of their use for reimbursement of claims, if the source for any prescription drug pricing standard is not publicly available.

(22) Through the CMS complaint tracking system, address and resolve complaints received by CMS against the MA organization.

(23) Maintain a fiscally sound operation by at least maintaining a positive net worth (total assets exceed total liabilities).

(24) Provide applicable beneficiaries with applicable discounts on applicable drugs in accordance with the requirements in subpart W of part 423.

(25) Maintain administrative and management capabilities sufficient for the organization to organize, implement, and control the financial, communication, benefit administration, and quality assurance activities related to the delivery of Part D services.

(26) Maintain a Part D summary plan rating score of at least 3 stars under the 5-star rating system specified in subpart 186 of this part 423. A Part D summary plan rating is calculated as provided in § 423.186.

(27) Pass an essential operations test prior to the start of the benefit year. This provision only applies to new sponsors that have not previously entered into a Part D contract with CMS and neither it, nor another subsidiary of the applicant's parent organization, is offering Part D benefits during the current year.
