
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.505 Contract provisions.
####### Maintenance of records.

(d)The Part D plan sponsor agrees to maintain, for 10 years, books, records, documents, and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices that-

(1) Are sufficient to do the following:

(i) Accommodate periodic auditing of the financial records (including data related to Medicare utilization, costs, and computation of the bid of part D plan sponsors).

(ii) Enable CMS to inspect or otherwise evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and timeliness of services performed under the contract and the facilities of the organization.

(iii) Enable CMS to audit and inspect any books and records of the Part D plan sponsor that pertain to the ability of the organization to bear the risk of potential financial losses, or to services performed or determinations of amounts payable under the contract.

(iv) Except for fallback entities, properly reflect all direct and indirect costs claimed to have been incurred and used in the preparation of the Part D plan sponsor's bid and necessary for the calculation of gross covered prescription drug costs, allowable reinsurance costs, and allowable risk corridor costs (as defined in ยง 423.308).

(v) Except for fallback entities, establish the basis for the components, assumptions, and analysis used by the Part D plan in determining the actuarial valuation of standard, basic alternative, or enhanced alternative coverage offered in accordance with the CMS guidelines specified in ยง 423.265(c)(3).

(2) Include records of the following:

(i) Ownership and operation of the Part D sponsor's financial, medical, and other record keeping systems.

(ii) Financial statements for the current contract period and 10 prior periods.

(iii) Federal income tax or informational returns for the current contract period and 10 prior periods.

(iv) Asset acquisition, lease, sale, or other actions.

(v) Agreements, contracts, and subcontracts.

(vi) Franchise, marketing, and management agreements.

(vii) Matters pertaining to costs of operations.

(viii) Amounts of income received by source and payment.

(ix) Cash flow statements.

(x) Any financial reports filed with other Federal programs or State authorities.

(xi) All prescription drug claims for the current contract period and 10 prior periods.

(xii) All price concessions (including concessions offered by manufacturers) for the current contract period and 10 prior periods accounted for separately from other administrative fees.
