
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.505 Contract provisions.
####### Disclosure of information.

(f)The Part D plan sponsor agrees to submit to CMS-

(1) Certified financial information that must include the following:

(i) Information as CMS may require demonstrating that the organization has a fiscally sound operation.

(ii) Information as CMS may require pertaining to the disclosure of ownership and control of the Part D plan sponsor.

(2) All information to CMS that is necessary for CMS to administer and evaluate the program and to simultaneously establish and facilitate a process for current and prospective beneficiaries to exercise choice in obtaining prescription drug coverage. This information includes, but is not limited to:

(i) The benefits covered under a Part D plan.

(ii) The Part D plan monthly basic beneficiary premium and Part D plan monthly supplemental beneficiary premium, if any, for the plan. Fallback entities submit the monthly beneficiary premium for standard prescription drug coverage.

(iii) The service area of each plan.

(iv) Plan quality and performance indicators for the benefits under the plan including-

(A) Disenrollment rates for Medicare enrollees electing to receive benefits through the plan for the previous 2 years;

(B) Information on Medicare enrollee satisfaction;

(C) The recent records regarding compliance of the plan with requirements of this part, as determined by CMS; and

(D) Other information determined by CMS to be necessary to assist beneficiaries in making an informed choice regarding Part D plans.

(v) Information about beneficiary appeals and their disposition, and formulary exceptions.

(vi) Information regarding all formal actions, reviews, findings, or other similar actions by States, other regulatory bodies, or any other certifying or accrediting organization.

(vii) Information on other matters that CMS may require, including, but not limited to, program monitoring and oversight, performance measures, quality assessment, research and evaluation, CMS outreach activities, payment-related oversight*, and fraud, abuse, and waste*, as specified in CMS guidelines.

(viii) Any other information deemed necessary to CMS for the administration or evaluation of the Medicare program.

(3) All data elements included in all its drug claims for purposes deemed necessary and appropriate by the Secretary, including, but not limited to the following:

(i) Reporting to Congress and the public on overall statistics associated with the operation of the Medicare prescription drug program.

(ii) Conducting evaluations of the overall Medicare program, including the interaction between prescription drug coverage under Part D of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act and the services and utilization under Parts A, B, and C of title XVIII of the Act and under titles XIX and XXI of the Act, as well as other studies addressing public health questions.

(iii) Making legislative proposals to the Congress regarding Federal health care programs and related programs.

(iv) Conducting demonstration and pilot projects and making recommendations for improving the economy, efficiency, or effectiveness of the Medicare program.

(v) Supporting care coordination and disease management programs.

(vi) Supporting quality improvement and performance measurement activities.

(vii) Populating personal health care records.

(viii) Supporting program integrity purposes, including coordination with the States.

(4) To its enrollees, all informational requirements under ยง 423.128 and, upon an enrollee's request, the financial disclosure information required under ยง 423.128(c)(4).
