
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.505 Contract provisions.
####### Relationship with first tier, downstream, and related entities.

(i)(1) Notwithstanding any relationship(s) that the Part D plan sponsor may have with first tier, downstream, and related entities, the Part D sponsor maintains ultimate responsibility for adhering to and otherwise fully complying with all terms and conditions of its contract with CMS.

(2) The Part D sponsor agrees to require all first tier, downstream, and related entities to agree that-

(i) HHS, the Comptroller General, or their designees have the right to audit, evaluate, collect, and inspect any books, contracts, computer or other electronic systems, including medical records and documentation of the first tier, downstream, and related entities related to CMS' contract with the Part D sponsor.

(ii) HHS, the Comptroller General or their designees have the right to audit, evaluate, collect, and inspect any records under paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section directly from any first tier, downstream, or related entity.

(iii) For records subject to review under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, except in exceptional circumstances, CMS will provide notification to the Part D sponsor that a direct request for information has been initiated.

(iv) HHS', the Comptroller General's, or their designee's right to inspect, evaluate, and audit any pertinent information for any particular contract period exists through 10 years from the final date of the contract period or from the date of completion of any audit, whichever is later.

(3) Each and every contract governing Part D sponsors and first tier, downstream, and related entities, must contain the following:

(i) Enrollee protection provisions that provide, consistent with paragraph (g)(1) of this section, arrangements that prohibit pharmacies or other providers from holding an enrollee liable for payment of any fees that are the obligation of the Part D plan sponsor.

(ii) Accountability provisions that indicate that the Part D sponsor may delegate activities or functions to a first tier, downstream, or related entity only in a manner consistent with requirements set forth at paragraph (i)(4) of this section.

(iii) A provision requiring that any services or other activity performed by a first tier, downstream, and related entity in accordance with a contract are consistent and comply with the Part D sponsor's contractual obligations.

(iv) Each and every contract must specify that first tier, downstream, and related entities must comply with all applicable Federal laws, regulations, and CMS instructions.

(v) A provision requiring prompt payment of clean claims by the Part D sponsor, consistent with ยง 423.520.

(vi) A provision that establishes timeframes, consistent with ยง 423.505(b)(20), for long-term care pharmacies to submit claims to the Part D sponsor for reimbursement under the plan.

(vii) If applicable, provisions addressing the drug pricing standard requirements of ยง 423.505(b)(21).

(4) If any of the Part D plan sponsors' activities or responsibilities under its contract with CMS is delegated to other parties, the following requirements apply to any first tier, downstream, and related entity:

(i) Each and every contract must specify delegated activities and reporting responsibilities.

(ii) Each and every contract must either provide for revocation of the delegation activities and reporting responsibilities described in paragraph (i)(4)(i) of this section or specify other remedies in instances when CMS or the Part D plan sponsor determine that the parties have not performed satisfactorily.

(iii) Each and every contract must specify that the Part D plan sponsor on an ongoing basis monitors the performance of the parties.

(iv) Each and every contract must specify that the related entity, contractor, or subcontractor must comply with all applicable Federal laws, regulations, and CMS instructions.

(5) If the Part D plan sponsor delegates selection of its prescription drug providers to another organization, the Part D sponsor's written arrangements with that organization must state that the CMS-contracting Part D plan sponsor retains the right to approve, suspend, or terminate any such arrangement.
