
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.505 Contract provisions.
####### Issuance of compliance actions for failure to comply with the terms of the contract.

(n)The Part D plan sponsor acknowledges that CMS may take compliance actions as described in this section or intermediate sanctions as defined in subpart O of this part.

(1) CMS may take compliance actions as described in paragraph (n)(3) of this section if it determines that the Part D plan sponsor has not complied with the terms of a current or prior Part D contract with CMS.

(i) CMS may determine that a Part D plans sponsor is out of compliance with a Part D requirement when the organization fails to meet performance standards articulated in the Part D statutes, regulations in this chapter, or guidance.

(ii) If CMS has not already articulated a measure for determining noncompliance, CMS may determine that a Part D plan sponsor is out of compliance when its performance in fulfilling Part D requirements represents an outlier relative to the performance of other Part D plan sponsors.

(2) CMS bases its decision on whether to issue a compliance action and what level of compliance action to take on an assessment of the circumstances surrounding the noncompliance, including all of the following:

(i) The nature of the conduct.

(ii) The degree of culpability of the Part D plan sponsor.

(iii) The adverse effect to beneficiaries which resulted or could have resulted from the conduct of the Part D plan sponsor.

(iv) The history of prior offenses by the Part D plan sponsor or its related entities.

(v) Whether the noncompliance was self-reported.

(vi) Other factors which relate to the impact of the underlying noncompliance or the lack of the Part D plan sponsor's oversight of its operations that contributed to the noncompliance.

(3) CMS may take one of three types of compliance actions based on the nature of the noncompliance.
