
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### § 423.509 Termination of contract by CMS.
####### Termination by CMS.

(a)CMS may at any time terminate a contract if CMS determines that the Part D plan sponsor meets any of the following:

(1) Has failed substantially to carry out the contract.

(2) Is carrying out the contract in a manner that is inconsistent with the efficient and effective administration of this part.

(3) No longer substantially meets the applicable conditions of this part.

(4) CMS may make a determination under paragraph (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section if the Part D Plan sponsor has had one or more of the following occur:

(i) Based on credible evidence, has committed or participated in false, fraudulent, or abusive activities affecting the Medicare, Medicaid, or other State or Federal health care programs, including submission of false or fraudulent data.

(ii) Substantially failed to comply with the requirements in subpart M of this part relating to grievances and appeals.

(iii) Failed to provide CMS with valid risk adjustment, reinsurance and risk corridor related data as required under §§ 423.322 and 423.329 (or, for fallback entities, failed to provide the information in § 423.871(f)).

(iv) Substantially failed to comply with the service access requirements in § 423.120.

(v) Substantially failed to comply with either of the following:

(A) Requirements in subpart V of this part.

(B) Information dissemination requirements of § 423.128 of this part.

(vi) Substantially failed to comply with the coordination with plans and programs that provide prescription drug coverage as described in subpart J of this part.

(vii) Substantially failed to comply with the cost and utilization management, quality improvement, medication therapy management and fraud, abuse and waste program requirements as specified in subparts D and K of this part.

(viii) Failed to comply with the regulatory requirements contained in this part.

(ix) Failed to meet CMS performance requirements in carrying out the regulatory requirements contained in this part.

(x) Achieves a Part D summary plan rating of less than 3 stars for 3 consecutive contract years. Plan ratings issued by CMS before September 1, 2012 are not included in the calculation of the 3-year period.

(xi)(A) Has failed to report MLR data in a timely and accurate manner in accordance with § 423.2460; or

(B) That any MLR data required by this subpart is found to be materially incorrect or fraudulent.

(xii) Failure of an essential operations test before the start of the benefit year by an organization that has entered into a Part D contract with CMS when neither it, nor another subsidiary of the organization's parent organization, is offering Part D benefits during the current year.

(xiii) The Part D plan sponsor has committed any of the acts in § 423.752 that support the imposition of intermediate sanctions or civil money penalties under § 423.750.

(xiv) Following the issuance of a notice to the sponsor no later than August 1, CMS must terminate, effective December 31 of the same year, an individual PDP if that plan does not have a sufficient number of enrollees to establish that it is a viable independent plan option.
