
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.509 Termination of contract by CMS.
####### Immediate termination of contract by CMS.

(2)(i) The procedures specified in (b)(1) of this section do not apply if-

(A) CMS determines that a delay in termination, resulting from compliance with the procedures provided in this part prior to termination, would pose an imminent and serious risk to the health of the individuals enrolled with the Part D plan sponsor;

(B) The Part D plan sponsor experiences financial difficulties so severe that its ability to make necessary health services available is impaired to the point of posing an imminent and serious risk to the health of its enrollees, or otherwise fails to make services available to the extent that such a risk to health exists; or

(C) The contract is being terminated based on the grounds specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (xii) of this section.

(ii) CMS notifies the Part D plan sponsor in writing that its contract will be terminated on a date specified by CMS. If a termination in is effective in the middle of a month, CMS has the right to recover the prorated share of the capitation payments made to the Part D plan sponsor covering the period of the month following the contract termination.

(iii) CMS notifies the Part D plan sponsor's Medicare enrollees in writing of CMS's decision to terminate the Part D plan sponsor's contract. This notice occurs no later than 30 days after CMS notifies the plan of its decision to terminate the Part D plan sponsor's contract. CMS simultaneously informs the Medicare enrollees of alternative options for obtaining qualified prescription drug coverage, including alternative PDP sponsors and MA-PDs in a similar geographic area.

(iv) CMS notifies the general public of the termination no later than 30 days after notifying the plan of CMS's decision to terminate the Part D plan sponsor's contract. This notice is published in one or more newspapers of general circulation in each community or county located in the Part D plan sponsor's service area.
