
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart K - Application Procedures and Contracts with Part D plan sponsors
###### ยง 423.514 Validation of Part D reporting requirements.
####### Reporting requirements for pharmacy benefits manager data.

(d)Each entity that provides pharmacy benefits management services must provide to the Part D sponsor, and each Part D sponsor must provide to CMS, in a manner specified by CMS, the following:

(1) The total number of prescriptions that were dispensed.

(2) The percentage of all prescriptions that were provided through retail pharmacies compared to mail order pharmacies.

(3) The percentage of prescriptions for which a generic drug was available and dispensed (generic dispensing rate), by pharmacy type (which includes an independent pharmacy, chain pharmacy, supermarket pharmacy, or mass merchandiser pharmacy that is licensed as a pharmacy by the State and that dispenses medication to the general public), that is paid by the Part D sponsor or PBM under the contract.

(4) The aggregate amount and type of rebates, discounts, or price concessions (excluding bona fide service fees as defined in ยง 423.501) that the PBM negotiates that are attributable to patient utilization under the plan.

(5) The aggregate amount of the rebates, discounts, or price concessions that are passed through to the plan sponsor, and the total number of prescriptions that were dispensed.

(6) The aggregate amount of the difference between the amount the Part D sponsor pays the PBM and the amount that the PBM pays retail pharmacies, and mail order pharmacies.
