
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Coverage Determinations, Redeterminations, and Reconsiderations
###### § 423.562 General provisions.
####### Rights of enrollees.

(b)In accordance with the provisions of this subpart, enrollees have all of the following rights under Part D plans:

(1) The right to have grievances between the enrollee and the Part D plan sponsor heard and resolved by the plan sponsor, as described in § 423.564.

(2) The right to a timely coverage determination by the Part D plan sponsor, as specified in § 423.566 and § 423.568, including the right to request from the Part D plan sponsor an exception to its tiered cost-sharing structure or formulary, as specified in § 423.578.

(3) The right to request from the Part D plan sponsor an expedited coverage determination, as specified in § 423.570.

(4) If dissatisfied with any part of a coverage determination or an at-risk determination under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f), all of the following appeal rights:

(i) The right to a redetermination of the adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination by the Part D plan sponsor, as specified in § 423.580.

(ii) The right to request an expedited redetermination, as provided under § 423.584.

(iii) If, as a result of the redetermination, a Part D plan sponsor affirms, in whole or in part, its adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, the right to a reconsideration or expedited reconsideration by an independent review entity (IRE) contracted by CMS, as specified in § 423.600.

(iv) If the IRE affirms the plan's adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, in whole or in part, the right to an ALJ hearing if the amount in controversy meets the requirements in § 423.2006.

(v) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator affirms the IRE's adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, in whole or in part, the right to request Council review of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision, as specified in § 423.2100.

(vi) If the Council affirms the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, in whole or in part, the right to judicial review of the decision if the amount in controversy meets the requirements in § 423.2006.
