
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Coverage Determinations, Redeterminations, and Reconsiderations
###### § 423.562 General provisions.
####### Responsibilities of the Part D plan sponsor.

(a)A Part D plan sponsor must meet all of the following requirements.

(1) A Part D plan sponsor, for each Part D plan that it offers, must establish and maintain-

(i) A grievance procedure as described in § 423.564 for addressing issues that do not involve coverage determinations;

(ii) Use a single, uniform exceptions and appeals process which includes procedures for accepting oral and written requests for coverage determinations and redeterminations that are in accordance with § 423.128(b)(7) and (d)(1)(iv).

(iii) A procedure for making timely coverage determinations, including determinations on requests for exceptions to a tiered cost-sharing structure or to a formulary; and

(iv) Appeal procedures that meet the requirements of this subpart for issues that involve coverage determinations.

(v) If the Part D plan sponsor has established a drug management program under § 423.153(f), appeal procedures that meet the requirements of this subpart for issues that involve at-risk determinations.). Determinations made in accordance with the processes at § 423.153(f) are collectively referred to as an at-risk determination, defined at § 423.560, made under a drug management program.

(2) A Part D plan sponsor must ensure that all enrollees receive written information about the-

(i) Grievance and appeal procedures that are available to them through the Part D plan sponsor; and

(ii) Complaint process available to the enrollee under the QIO process as set forth under section 1154(a)(14) of the Act.

(3) A Part D plan sponsor must arrange with its network pharmacies to distribute notices instructing enrollees how to contact their plans to obtain a coverage determination or request an exception. These notices must comply with the standards established in § 423.128(b)(7)(iii).

(4) In accordance with subpart K of this part, if the Part D plan sponsor delegates any of its responsibilities under this subpart to another entity or individual through which the Part D plan sponsor provides covered benefits, the Part D plan sponsor is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the entity or individual satisfies the relevant requirements of this subpart.

(5) A Part D plan sponsor must employ a medical director who is responsible for ensuring the clinical accuracy of all coverage determinations and redeterminations involving medical necessity. The medical director must be a physician with a current and unrestricted license to practice medicine in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (that is, Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia.
