
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Coverage Determinations, Redeterminations, and Reconsiderations
###### ยง 423.570 Expediting certain coverage determinations.
####### Actions following denial.

(d)If a Part D plan sponsor denies a request for expedited determination, it must take the following actions:

(1) Make the determination within the 72-hour timeframe established in ยง 423.568(b) for a standard determination. The 72-hour period begins on the day the Part D plan sponsor receives the request for expedited determination. For an exceptions request, the Part D plan sponsor must notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours after receipt of the physician's or other prescriber's supporting statement. If a supporting statement is not received by the end of 14 calendar days from receipt of the exceptions request, the Part D plan sponsor must notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours from the end of 14 calendar days from receipt of the exceptions request.

(2) Give the enrollee and prescribing physician or other prescriber prompt oral notice of the denial that-

(i) Explains that the Part D plan sponsor must process the request using the 72 hour timeframe for standard determinations;

(ii) Informs the enrollee of the right to file an expedited grievance if he or she disagrees with the decision by the Part D plan sponsor not to expedite;

(iii) Informs the enrollee of the right to resubmit a request for an expedited determination with the prescribing physician's or other prescriber's support and

(iv) Provides instructions about the plan's grievance process and its timeframes.

(3) Subsequently deliver to the enrollee, within 3 calendar days, equivalent written notice.
