
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Coverage Determinations, Redeterminations, and Reconsiderations
###### ยง 423.578 Exceptions process.
####### Requests for exceptions to a plan's tiered cost-sharing structure.

(a)Each Part D plan sponsor that provides prescription drug benefits for Part D drugs and manages this benefit through the use of a tiered formulary must establish and maintain reasonable and complete exceptions procedures subject to CMS' approval for this type of coverage determination. The Part D plan sponsor grants an exception whenever it determines that the requested non-preferred drug for treatment of the enrollee's condition is medically necessary, consistent with the physician's or other prescriber's statement under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(1) The tiering exceptions procedures must address situations where a formulary's tiering structure changes during the year and an enrollee is using a drug affected by the change.

(2) Part D plan sponsors must establish criteria that provide for a tiering exception, consistent with paragraphs (a)(3) through (6) of this section.

(3) An enrollee or the enrollee's prescribing physician or other prescriber may file a request for an exception.

(4) A prescribing physician or other prescriber must provide an oral or written supporting statement that the preferred drug(s) for the treatment of the enrollee's condition-

(i) Would not be as effective for the enrollee as the requested drug;

(ii) Would have adverse effects for the enrollee; or

(iii) Both paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (a)(4)(ii) of this section apply.

(5) If the physician or other prescriber provides an oral supporting statement, the Part D plan sponsor may require the physician or other prescriber to subsequently provide a written supporting statement. The Part D plan sponsor may require the prescribing physician or other prescriber to provide additional supporting medical documentation as part of the written follow-up.

(6) Limitations on tiering exceptions: A Part D plan sponsor is permitted to design its tiering exceptions procedures such that an exception is not approvable in the following circumstances:

(i) To cover a brand name drug, as defined in ยง 423.4, at a preferred cost-sharing level that applies only to alternative drugs that are-

(A) Generic drugs, for which an application is approved under section 505(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or

(B) Authorized generic drugs as defined in section 505(t)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(ii) To cover a biological product licensed under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act at a preferred cost-sharing level that does not contain any alternative drug(s) that are biological products.

(iii)(A) Before January 1, 2022, if a Part D plan sponsor maintains a specialty tier, as defined in ยง 423.560, the Part D sponsor may design its exception process so that Part D drugs on the specialty tier are not eligible for a tiering exception.

(B) Beginning January 1, 2022, if a Part D sponsor maintains one or two specialty tiers, as defined in ยง 423.104, the Part D sponsor may design its exception process so that Part D drugs on the specialty tier(s) are not eligible for tiering exception(s) to non-specialty tiers.
