
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart M - Grievances, Coverage Determinations, Redeterminations, and Reconsiderations
###### ยง 423.582 Request for a standard redetermination.
####### Dismissing a request.

(e)A Part D plan sponsor dismisses a redetermination request, either entirely or as to any stated issue, under any of the following circumstances:

(1) When the person or entity requesting a redetermination is not a proper party under ยง 423.580.

(2) When the Part D plan sponsor determines the party failed to make out a valid request for redetermination that substantially complies with paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) When the party fails to file the redetermination request within the proper filing time frame in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) When the enrollee or the enrollee's representative files a request for redetermination, but the enrollee dies while the request is pending, and both of the following criteria apply:

(i) The enrollee's surviving spouse or estate has no remaining financial interest in the case.

(ii) The enrollee's representative, if any, does not wish to pursue the request for coverage.

(5) When a party filing the redetermination request submits a timely request for withdrawal of the request for a redetermination with the Part D plan sponsor.
