
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart O - Intermediate Sanctions
###### ยง 423.752 Basis for imposing intermediate sanctions and civil money penalties.
####### et seq.

(2) Imposes on Part D plan enrollees premiums in excess of the monthly basic and supplemental beneficiary premiums permitted under section 1860D-1of the Act and subpart F of this part.

(3) Acts to expel or refuses to re-enroll a beneficiary in violation of the provisions of this part.

(4) Engages in any practice that would reasonably be expected to have the effect of denying or discouraging enrollment (except as permitted by this part) by eligible individuals with the organization whose medical condition or history indicates a need for substantial future medical services.

(5) Misrepresents or falsifies information that it furnishes-

(i) To CMS; or

(ii) To an individual or to any other entity under the Part D drug benefit program.

(6) Employs or contracts with an individual or entity who is excluded from participation in Medicare under section 1128 or 1128A of the Act (or with an entity that employs or contracts with an excluded individual or entity) for the provision of any of the following:

(i) Health care.

(ii) Utilization review.

(iii) Medical social work.

(iv) Administrative services.

(7) Except as provided under ยง 423.34, enrolls an individual in any plan under this part without the prior consent of the individual or the designee of the individual.

(8) Transfers an individual enrolled under this part from one plan to another without the prior consent of the individual or the designee of the individual or solely for the purpose of earning a commission.

(9) Fails to comply with communication restrictions described in subpart V of this part or applicable implementing guidance.

(10) Employs or contracts with any individual, agent, provider, supplier or entity who engages in the conduct described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
