
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart R - Payments to Sponsors of Retiree Prescription Drug Plans
###### ยง 423.884 Requirements for qualified retiree prescription drug plans.
####### Required information.

(2)In connection with each application the sponsor (either directly or through its designee) must submit the following:

(i) Employer Tax ID Number (if applicable).

(ii) Sponsor name and address.

(iii) Contact name and email address.

(iv) Actuarial attestation that satisfies the standards specified in paragraph (d) of this section and any other supporting documentation required by CMS for each qualified retiree prescription drug plan for which the sponsor seeks subsidy payments.

(v) A list of all individuals the sponsor believes (using information reasonably available to the sponsor when it submits the application) are qualifying covered retirees enrolled in each prescription drug plan (including spouses and dependents, if Medicare-eligible), along with the information about each person listed below in this paragraph:

(A) Full name.

(B) Health Insurance Claim (HIC) number or Social Security number.

(C) Date of birth.

(D) Gender.

(E) Relationship to the retired employee.

(vi) A sponsor may satisfy paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section by entering into a voluntary data sharing agreement (VDSA) with CMS (or any other arrangement CMS may make available).

(vii) A signed sponsor agreement.

(viii) Any other information specified by CMS.
