
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart R - Payments to Sponsors of Retiree Prescription Drug Plans
###### ยง 423.884 Requirements for qualified retiree prescription drug plans.
####### Actuarial attestation-general.

(d)The sponsor of the plan must provide to CMS an attestation in a form and manner specified by CMS that the actuarial value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the plan is at least equal to the actuarial value of the defined standard prescription coverage (as defined at ยง 423.100), not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap (as defined at ยง 423.100). The attestation must meet all of the following standards:

(1) Contents of the attestation include the following assurances:

(i) The actuarial gross value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the plan for the plan year is at least equal to the actuarial gross value of the defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D for the plan year in question, not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap.

(ii) The actuarial net value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the plan for that plan year is at least equal to the actuarial net value of the defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D for that plan year in question, not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap.

(iii) The actuarial values must be determined using the methodology in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(2) The attestation must be made by a qualified actuary who is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries. Applicants may use qualified outside actuaries, including (but not limited to) actuaries employed by the plan administrator or an insurer providing benefits under the plan. If an applicant uses an outside actuary, the attestation can be submitted directly by the outside actuary or by the plan sponsor.

(3) The attestation must be signed by a qualified actuary and must state that the attestation is true and accurate to the best of the attester's knowledge and belief.

(4) The attestation must contain an acknowledgement that the information being provided in the attestation is being used to obtain Federal funds.
