
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart R - Payments to Sponsors of Retiree Prescription Drug Plans
###### ยง 423.884 Requirements for qualified retiree prescription drug plans.
####### 2,2

() An amount calculated to reflect the impact on the value of defined standard prescription drug coverage of supplemental coverage actually provided by the sponsor. Sponsors may use other actuarial approaches specified by CMS as an alternative to the actuarial valuation specified in this paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(B)().

(C) The valuation of defined standard prescription drug coverage for a given plan year is based on the initial coverage limit cost-sharing and out-of-pocket threshold for defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D in effect at the start of such plan year, not taking into account the value of any discount or coverage provided during the coverage gap.

(D) Example: If a sponsor's retiree prescription drug plan operates under a plan year that ends March 30, the sponsor has a choice of basing the attestation for the year April 1, 2007 through March 30, 2008 on either the initial coverage limit, cost-sharing amounts, and out-of-pocket threshold amounts that apply to defined standard prescription drug coverage under Part D in CY 2007, or the amounts announced for CY 2008. However, in order to use the amounts applicable in CY 2007, the sponsor must submit the attestation within 60 days after the publication of the Part D coverage limits for CY 2008. If the attestation is submitted more than 60 days after the 2008 coverage limits have been published, the CY 2008 coverage limits would apply.

(iv) Employment-based retiree health coverage with two or more benefit options. For the assurance required under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the assurance must be provided separately for each benefit option for which the sponsor requests a subsidy under this subpart. For the assurance required under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the assurance may be provided either separately for each benefit option for which the sponsor provided assurances under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, or in the aggregate for all benefit options (or for a subset of the benefit options).
