
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart R - Payments to Sponsors of Retiree Prescription Drug Plans
###### ยง 423.884 Requirements for qualified retiree prescription drug plans.
####### Timing,Annual submission.

(6)-(i)The attestation must be provided annually at the time the sponsor's subsidy application is submitted, or at such other times as specified by CMS in further guidance.

(ii) Submission following material change. The attestation must be provided no later than 90 days before the implementation of a material change to the drug coverage of the sponsor's retiree prescription drug plan. For purposes of this clause, the term "material change" means the addition of a benefit option that does not impact the actuarial value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the sponsor's plan such that it no longer meets the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(7) Notice of failure to continue to satisfy the actuarial equivalence standards. A sponsor must notify CMS, in a form and manner specified by CMS, no later than 90 days before the implementation of a change to the drug coverage that impacts the actuarial value of the retiree prescription drug coverage under the sponsor's plan such that it no longer meets the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
