
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart R - Payments to Sponsors of Retiree Prescription Drug Plans
###### ยง 423.888 Payment methods, including provision of necessary information.
####### Maintenance of records.

(d)(1) The sponsor of the qualified retiree prescription drug plan (or a designee), as applicable, must maintain, and furnish to CMS or the OIG upon request, the records enumerated in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The records must be maintained for 6 years after the expiration of the plan year in which the costs were incurred for the purposes of audits and other oversight activities conducted by CMS to assure the accuracy of the actuarial attestation and the accuracy of payments.

(2) CMS or the OIG may extend the 6-year retention requirement for the records enumerated in paragraph (d)(3) of this section in the event of an ongoing investigation, litigation, or negotiation involving civil, administrative or criminal liability. In addition, the sponsor of the qualified retiree prescription drug plan (or a designee), as applicable, must maintain the records enumerated in paragraph (d)(3) of this section longer than 6 years if it knows or should know that the records are the subject of an ongoing investigation, litigation or negotiation involving civil, administrative or criminal liability.

(3) The records that must be retained are:

(i) Reports and working documents of the actuaries who wrote the attestation submitted in accordance with ยง 423.884(a).

(ii) All documentation of costs incurred and other relevant information utilized for calculating the amount of the subsidy payment made in accordance with ยง 423.886, including the underlying claims data.

(iii) Any other records specified by CMS.

(4) CMS may issue additional guidance addressing recordkeeping requirements, including (but not limited to) the use of electronic media.
