
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart S - Special Rules for States-Eligibility Determinations for Subsidies and General Payment Provisions
###### ยง 423.910 Requirements.
####### State monthly enrollment reporting.

(d)-

(1) States must submit an electronic file as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, identifying each full-benefit dual eligible individual enrolled in the State for each month. This file must include specified information including identifying information, a dual eligible type code, available income data and institutional status. The file includes data on enrollment for the current month, plus retroactive changes in enrollment characteristics for prior months. This file will be used by CMS to establish the monthly enrollment for those individuals with Part D drug coverage who are also determined by the State to be eligible for full Medicaid benefits subject to the phased down State contribution payment. This file is due to CMS no later than the last day of the reporting month. For States that do not submit an acceptable file by the end of the month, the phased down State contribution for that month is based on data deemed appropriate by CMS.

(2)(i) For the period prior to April 1, 2022, States must submit the file at least monthly and may submit updates to that file on a more frequent basis.

(ii) For the period beginning April 1, 2022, States must submit the file at least monthly and must submit updates to that file on a daily basis.
