
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.1980 Reopening of coverage determinations, redeterminations, reconsiderations, decisions, and reviews.
####### Time frame and requirements for reopening reconsiderations, decisions and reviews initiated by an IRE, ALJ or attorney adjudicator, or the Council.

(d)(1) An IRE may reopen its reconsideration on its own motion within 180 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration for good cause in accordance with ยง 423.1986. If the IRE's reconsideration was procured by fraud or similar fault, then the IRE may reopen at any time.

(2) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may reopen his or her decision, or the Council may reopen an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision on its own motion within 180 calendar days from the date of the decision for good cause in accordance with ยง 423.1986. If the decision was procured by fraud or similar fault, then the ALJ or attorney adjudicator may reopen his or her decision, or the Council may reopen an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision at any time.

(3) The Council may reopen its review decision on its own motion within 180 calendar days from the date of the review decision for good cause in accordance with ยง 423.1986. If the Council's decision was procured by fraud or similar fault, then the Council may reopen at any time.
