
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### § 423.1980 Reopening of coverage determinations, redeterminations, reconsiderations, decisions, and reviews.
####### General rules.

(a)(1) A reopening is a remedial action taken to change a binding determination or decision, even though the binding determination or decision may have been correct at the time it was made based on the evidence of record. Consistent with § 423.1978(a), that action may be taken by-

(i) A Part D plan sponsor to revise the coverage determination or redetermination;

(ii) An IRE to revise the reconsideration;

(iii) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator to revise his or her decision; or

(iv) The Council to revise the ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision, or its review decision.

(2) When an enrollee has filed a valid request for an appeal of a coverage determination, redetermination, reconsideration, ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision, or Council review, no adjudicator has jurisdiction to reopen an issue that is under appeal until all appeal rights for that issue are exhausted. Once the appeal rights for the issue have been exhausted, the Part D plan sponsor, IRE, ALJ or attorney adjudicator, or Council may reopen as set forth in this section.

(3) Consistent with § 423.1978(b), the filing of a request for reopening does not relieve the Part D plan sponsor of its obligation to make payment or provide benefits as specified in § 423.636 or § 423.638.

(4) Consistent with § 423.1978(d), the Part D plan sponsor's, IRE's, ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's, or Council's decision on whether to reopen is binding and not subject to appeal.

(5) A determination under the Medicare secondary payer provisions of section 1862(b) of the Act that Medicare has an MSP recovery claim for drug claims that were already reimbursed by the Part D plan sponsor is not a reopening.
