
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2000 Hearing before an ALJ and decision by an ALJ or attorney adjudicator: General rule.

(a) If an enrollee is dissatisfied with an IRE's reconsideration, the enrollee may request a hearing before an ALJ.

(b) A hearing before an ALJ may be conducted in-person, by video-teleconference, or by telephone. At the hearing, the enrollee may submit evidence subject to the restrictions in ยง 423.2018, examine the evidence used in making the determination under review, and present and/or question witnesses.

(c) In some circumstances, the Part D plan sponsor, CMS, or the IRE may participate in the proceedings on a request for an ALJ hearing as specified in ยง 423.2010.

(d) The ALJ or attorney adjudicator conducts a de novo review and issues a decision based on the administrative record, including, for an ALJ, any hearing record.

(e) If an enrollee waives his or her right to appear at the hearing in person or by telephone or video-teleconference, the ALJ or an attorney adjudicator may make a decision based on the evidence that is in the file and any new evidence that is submitted for consideration.

(f) The ALJ may require the enrollee to participate in a hearing if it is necessary to decide the case. If the ALJ determines that it is necessary to obtain testimony from a person other than the enrollee, he or she may hold a hearing to obtain that testimony, even if the enrollee has waived the right to appear. In that event, however, the ALJ will give the enrollee the opportunity to appear when the testimony is given, but may hold the hearing even if the enrollee decides not to appear.

(g) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may also issue a decision on the record on his or her own initiative if the evidence in the administrative record supports a fully favorable finding.
