
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### § 423.2004 Right to a review of IRE notice of dismissal.

(a) An enrollee has a right to have an IRE's dismissal of a request for reconsideration reviewed by an ALJ or attorney adjudicator if-

(1) The enrollee files a written request for review within 60 calendar days after receipt of the notice of the IRE's dismissal.

(2) The enrollee meets the amount in controversy requirements of § 423.2006.

(3) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the IRE's dismissal is presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the written dismissal notice, unless there is evidence to the contrary.

(4) For purposes of meeting the 60 calendar day filing deadline, the request is considered as filed on the date it is received by the office specified in the IRE's dismissal.

(b) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator determines that the IRE's dismissal was in error, he or she vacates the dismissal and remands the case to the IRE for a reconsideration in accordance with § 423.2056.

(c) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator affirms the IRE's dismissal of a reconsideration request, he or she issues a notice of decision affirming the IRE's dismissal in accordance with § 423.2046(b).

(d) The ALJ or attorney adjudicator may dismiss the request for review of an IRE's dismissal in accordance with § 423.2052(b).
