
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2002 Right to an ALJ hearing.

(a) An enrollee who is dissatisfied with the IRE reconsideration determination has a right to a hearing before an ALJ if-

(1) The enrollee files a written request for an ALJ hearing within 60 calendar days after receipt of the written notice of the IRE's reconsideration; and

(2) The enrollee meets the amount in controversy requirements of ยง 423.2006.

(b) An enrollee may request that the hearing before an ALJ be expedited if:

(1) The appeal involves an issue specified in ยง 423.566(b) but does not include solely a request for payment of Part D drugs already furnished;

(2) The enrollee submits a written or oral request for an expedited ALJ hearing within 60 calendar days of the date of the written notice of an IRE reconsideration determination. The request can only be submitted after the enrollee receives the written IRE reconsideration notice. The request should also explain why applying the standard timeframe may seriously jeopardize the life or health of the enrollee; and

(3) The enrollee meets the amount in controversy requirements of ยง 423.2006.

(c) OMHA must document all oral requests for expedited hearings in writing and maintain the documentation in the case files.

(d) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the reconsideration is presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the written reconsideration, unless there is evidence to the contrary.

(e) For purposes of meeting the 60 calendar day filing deadline, the request is considered as filed on the date it is received by the office specified in the IRE's reconsideration.
