
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2010 When CMS, the IRE, or Part D plan sponsors may participate in the proceedings on a request for an ALJ hearing.
####### Invalid requests to participate.

(e)(1) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may determine that a CMS, IRE, and/or Part D plan sponsor request to participate is invalid under this section if the request to participate was not timely filed or the request to participate was not sent to the enrollee.

(2) If the request to participate is determined to be invalid, the written notice of an invalid request to participate must be sent to the entity that made the request to participate and the enrollee.

(i) If no hearing is scheduled or the request to participate was made after the hearing occurred, the written notice of an invalid request to participate must be sent no later than the date the notice of decision, dismissal, or remand is mailed.

(ii) If a non-expedited hearing is scheduled, the written notice of an invalid request to participate must be sent prior to the hearing. If the notice would be sent fewer than 5 calendar days before the hearing is scheduled to occur, oral notice must be provided to the entity that submitted the request, and the written notice must be sent as soon as possible after the oral notice is provided.

(iii) If an expedited hearing is scheduled, oral notice of an invalid request to participate must be provided to the entity that submitted the request, and the written notice must be sent as soon as possible after the oral notice is provided.
