
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2014 Request for an ALJ hearing or a review of an IRE dismissal.
####### Extension of time to request a hearing or review.

(e)(1) If the request for hearing or review is not filed within 60 calendar days of receipt of the written IRE's reconsideration or dismissal, an enrollee may request an extension for good cause.

(2) Any request for an extension of time must be in writing or, for expedited reviews, in writing or oral. OMHA must document all oral requests in writing and maintain the documentation in the case file.

(3) The request must be filed with the office specified in the notice of reconsideration or dismissal, must give the reasons why the request for a hearing or review was not filed within the stated time period, and must be filed with the request for hearing or request for review of an IRE dismissal, or upon notice that the request may be dismissed because it was not timely filed.

(4) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may find there is good cause for missing the deadline to file a request for an ALJ hearing or request for review of an IRE dismissal, or there is no good cause for missing the deadline to file a request for a review of an IRE dismissal, but only an ALJ may find there is no good cause for missing the deadline to file a request for an ALJ hearing. If good cause is found for missing the deadline, the time period for filing the request for hearing or request for review of an IRE dismissal will be extended. To determine whether good cause for late filing exists, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator uses the standards set forth in ยง 405.942(b)(2) and (3) of this chapter.

(5) If a request for hearing is not timely filed, any applicable adjudication period in ยง 423.2016 begins the date the ALJ or attorney adjudicator grants the request to extend the filing deadline.

(6) A determination granting a request to extend the filing deadline is not subject to further review.
