
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2020 Time and place for a hearing before an ALJ.
####### An enrollee's request for an in-person or video-teleconferencing hearing.

(i)(1) If an unrepresented enrollee objects to a video-teleconferencing hearing or to the ALJ's offer to conduct a hearing by telephone, or a represented enrollee who filed the request for hearing objects to a telephone or video-teleconferencing hearing, the enrollee or the enrollee's representative must notify the ALJ at the earliest possible opportunity before the time set for the hearing and request a video-teleconferencing or an in-person hearing.

(2) The enrollee must state the reason for the objection and state the time and/or place he or she wants an in-person or video-teleconferencing hearing to be held.

(3) The request must be in writing except for an expedited hearing for which the request may be provided orally. The ALJ must document all oral objections to an expedited video-teleconferencing or telephone hearing in writing and maintain the documentation in the case files.

(4) When an enrollee's request for an in-person or video-teleconferencing hearing is granted and an adjudication time frame applies in accordance with ยง 423.2016, the ALJ issues a decision, dismissal, or remand to the IRE within the adjudication time frame specified in ยง 423.2016 (including any applicable extensions provided in this subpart), unless the enrollee requesting the hearing agrees to waive such adjudication timeframe in writing.

(5) The ALJ may grant the request, with the concurrence of the Chief ALJ or designee if the request was for an in-person hearing, upon a finding of good cause and will reschedule the hearing for a time and place when the enrollee may appear in person or by video-teleconference before the ALJ. Good cause is not required for a request for video-teleconferencing hearing made by an unrepresented enrollee who filed the request for hearing and objects to an ALJ's offer to conduct a hearing by telephone.
