
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2026 Disqualification of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.

(a) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may not adjudicate an appeal if he or she is prejudiced or partial to the enrollee or has any interest in the matter pending for decision.

(b) If an enrollee objects to the ALJ or attorney adjudicator assigned to adjudicate the appeal, the enrollee must notify the ALJ within 10 calendar days of the date of the notice of hearing if a non-expedited hearing is scheduled, except for expedited hearings in which the enrollee must submit written or oral notice no later than 2 calendar days after the date of the notice of hearing, or the ALJ or attorney adjudicator at any time before a decision, dismissal order, or remand order is issued if no hearing is scheduled. The ALJ or attorney adjudicator must document all oral objections in writing and maintain the documentation in the case files. The ALJ or attorney adjudicator considers the enrollee's objections and decides whether to proceed with the appeal or withdraw.

(c) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator withdraws, another ALJ or attorney adjudicator will be assigned to adjudicate the appeal. If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator does not withdraw, the enrollee may, after the ALJ or attorney adjudicator has issued an action in the case, present his or her objections to the Council in accordance with ยง 423.2100 through ยง 423.2130. The Council will then consider whether the decision or dismissal should be revised or, if applicable, a new hearing held before another ALJ.

(d) If the enrollee objects to the ALJ or attorney adjudicator and the ALJ or attorney adjudicator subsequently withdraws from the appeal, any adjudication period that applies to the appeal in accordance with ยง 423.2016 is extended by 14 calendar days for a standard appeal, or 2 calendar days for an expedited appeal.
