
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2030 ALJ hearing procedures.
####### At the hearing.

(b)(1) The ALJ fully examines the issues, questions the enrollee and other witnesses, and may accept evidence that is material to the issues consistent with ยง 423.2018.

(2) The ALJ may limit testimony and argument at the hearing that are not relevant to an issue before the ALJ, that are repetitive of evidence or testimony already in the record, or that relate to an issue that has been sufficiently developed or on which the ALJ has already ruled. The ALJ may, but is not required to, provide the enrollee or representative with an opportunity to submit additional written statements and affidavits on the matter in lieu of testimony and/or argument at the hearing. The written statements and affidavits must be submitted within the time frame designated by the ALJ.

(3) If the ALJ determines that the enrollee or enrollee's representative is uncooperative, disruptive to the hearing, or abusive during the course of the hearing after the ALJ has warned the enrollee or representative to stop such behavior, the ALJ may excuse the enrollee or representative from the hearing and continue with the hearing to provide the participants with an opportunity to offer testimony and/or argument. If an enrollee or representative was excused from the hearing, the ALJ will provide the enrollee or representative with an opportunity to submit written statements and affidavits in lieu of testimony and/or argument at the hearing, and the enrollee or representative may request a recording of the hearing in accordance with ยง 423.2042 and respond in writing to any statements made by participants and/or testimony of the witnesses at the hearing. The written statements and affidavits must be submitted within the time frame designated by the ALJ.
