
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2022 Notice of a hearing before an ALJ.
####### Notice information.

(b)(1) The notice of hearing contains-

(i) A statement that the issues before the ALJ include all of the issues brought out in the coverage determination or at-risk determination, redetermination, or reconsideration that were not decided entirely in the enrollee's favor and that were specified in the request for hearing; and

(ii) A statement of any specific new issues the ALJ will consider in accordance with ยง 423.2032.

(2) The notice will inform the enrollee that he or she may designate a person to represent him or her during the proceedings.

(3) The notice must include an explanation of the procedures for requesting a change in the time or place of the hearing, a reminder that the ALJ may dismiss the hearing request if the enrollee fails to appear at the scheduled hearing without good cause, and other information about the scheduling and conduct of the hearing.

(4) The enrollee will also be told if his or her appearance or that of any other witness is scheduled by video-teleconferencing, telephone, or in person. If the ALJ has scheduled the enrollee to appear at the hearing by video-teleconferencing, the notice of hearing will advise that the scheduled place for the hearing is a video-teleconferencing site and explain what it means to appear at the hearing by video-teleconferencing.

(5) The notice advises the enrollee that if he or she objects to appearing by video-teleconferencing or telephone, and wishes instead to have his or her hearing at a time and place where he or she may appear in person before the ALJ, he or she must follow the procedures set forth at ยง 423.2020(i) for notifying the ALJ of his or her objections and for requesting an in-person hearing.
