
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2040 Prehearing and posthearing conferences.

(a) The ALJ may decide on his or her own, or at the request of the enrollee to the hearing, to hold a prehearing or posthearing conference to facilitate the hearing or the hearing decision.

(b) For non-expedited hearings, the ALJ informs the enrollee, and CMS, the IRE, and/or the Part D plan sponsor if the ALJ has granted their request(s) to be a participant to the hearing at the time the notice of conference is sent, of the time, place, and purpose of the conference at least 7 calendar days before the conference date, unless the enrollee indicates in writing that he or she does not wish to receive a written notice of the conference.

(c) For expedited hearings, the ALJ informs the enrollee, and CMS, the IRE, and/or the Part D plan sponsor if the ALJ has granted their request(s) to be a participant to the hearing, of the time, place, and purpose of the conference at least 2 calendar days before the conference date, unless the enrollee indicates orally or in writing that he or she does not wish to receive a written notice of the conference.

(d) All oral requests not to receive written notice of the conference must be documented in writing and the documentation must be made part of the administrative record.

(e) At the conference-

(1) The ALJ or an OMHA attorney designated by the ALJ conducts the conference, but only the ALJ conducting a conference may consider matters in addition to those stated in the conference notice, if the enrollee consents to consideration of the additional matters in writing.

(2) An audio recording of the conference is made.

(f) The ALJ issues an order to the enrollee and all participants who attended the conference stating all agreements and actions resulting from the conference. If the enrollee does not object within 10 calendar days of receiving the order for non-expedited hearings or 1 calendar day for expedited hearings, or any additional time granted by the ALJ, the agreements and actions become part of the administrative record and are binding on the enrollee.
