
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2042 The administrative record.
####### Creating the record.

(a)(1) OMHA makes a complete record of the evidence and administrative proceedings on the appealed matter, including any prehearing and posthearing conference and hearing proceedings that were conducted.

(2) The record will include marked as exhibits, the appealed determinations and documents and other evidence used in making the appealed determinations and the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision, including, but not limited to, medical records, written statements, certificates, reports, affidavits, and any other evidence the ALJ or attorney adjudicator admits. The record will also include any evidence excluded or not considered by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, including but not limited to duplicative evidence submitted by the enrollee.

(3) An enrollee may request and receive a copy of the record prior to or at the hearing, or, if a hearing is not held, at any time before the notice of decision is issued.

(4) If a request for review is filed, the complete record, including any prehearing and posthearing conference and hearing recordings, is forwarded to the Council.

(5) A typed transcription of the hearing is prepared if an enrollee seeks judicial review of the case in a Federal district court within the stated time period and all other jurisdictional criteria are met, unless, upon the Secretary's motion prior to the filing of an answer, the court remands the case.
