
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### ยง 423.2110 Council reviews on its own motion.
####### Referral of cases.

(b)(1) CMS or the IRE may refer a case to the Council if, in the view of CMS or the IRE, the decision or dismissal contains an error of law material to the outcome of the appeal or presents a broad policy or procedural issue that may affect the public interest. CMS or the IRE may also request that the Council take own motion review of a case if-

(i) CMS or the IRE participated or requested to participate in the appeal at the OMHA level; and

(ii) In CMS' or the IRE's view, the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or dismissal is not supported by the preponderance of evidence in the record or the ALJ or attorney adjudicator abused his or her discretion.

(2) CMS' or the IRE's referral to the Council is made in writing and must be filed with the Council no later than 60 calendar days after the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's written decision or dismissal is received.

(i) The written referral will state the reasons why CMS or the IRE believes that the Council should review the case on its own motion.

(ii) CMS or the IRE will send a copy of its referral to the enrollee and to the OMHA Chief ALJ.

(iii) The enrollee may file exceptions to the referral by submitting written comments to the Council within 20 calendar days of the referral notice.

(iv) An enrollee submitting comments to the Council must send the comments to CMS or the IRE.
