
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart U - Reopening, ALJ Hearings and ALJ and Attorney Adjudicator Decisions, Council Review, and Judicial Review
###### § 423.2140 Council Review of ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision in a case remanded by a Federal District Court.
####### An enrollee files exceptions disagreeing with the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.

(b)(1) If an enrollee disagrees with an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision described in paragraph (a) of this section, in whole or in part, he or she may file exceptions to the decision with the Council Council .

(2) Exceptions may be filed by submitting a written statement to the Council setting forth the reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.

(i) The enrollee must file exceptions within 30 calendar days of the date the enrollee receives the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator or submit a written request for an extension within the 30 calendar day period.

(ii) The Council will grant a timely request for a 30 calendar day extension. A request for an extension of more than 30 calendar days must include a statement of reasons as to why the enrollee needs the additional time and may be granted if the Council finds good cause under the standard established in §§ 405.942(b)(2) or (b)(3) of this chapter.

(3) If written exceptions are timely filed, the Council considers the enrollee's reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator. If the Council concludes that there is no reason to change the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, it will issue a notice addressing the exceptions and explaining why no change in the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator is warranted. In this instance, the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator is the final decision of the Secretary after remand.

(4) When an enrollee files written exceptions to the decision of the ALJ, the Council may assume jurisdiction at any time. If the Council assumes jurisdiction, it makes a new, independent decision based on its consideration of the entire record adopting, modifying, or reversing the decision of the ALJ or attorney adjudicator or remanding the case to an ALJ or attorney adjudicator for further proceedings, including a new decision. The new decision of the Council is the final decision of the Secretary after remand.
