
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart V - Part D Communication Requirements
###### ยง 423.2262 General communications materials and activity requirements.
####### General rules.

(a)Part D sponsors must ensure their statements and the terminology used in communications activities and materials adhere to the following requirements:

(1) Part D sponsors may not do any of the following:

(i) Provide information that is inaccurate or misleading.

(ii) Make unsubstantiated statements except when used in logos or taglines.

(iii) Engage in activities that could mislead or confuse Medicare beneficiaries, or misrepresent the Part D sponsor.

(iv) Engage in any discriminatory activity such as attempting to recruit Medicare beneficiaries from higher income areas without making comparable efforts to enroll Medicare beneficiaries from lower income areas, or vice versa.

(v) Target potential enrollees based on higher or lower income levels.

(vi) Target potential enrollees based on health status.

(vii) State or imply plans are only available to seniors rather than to all Medicare beneficiaries.

(viii) Employ Part D plan names that suggest that a plan is not available to all Medicare beneficiaries.

(ix) Display the names or logos or both of co-branded network pharmacies on the sponsor's member identification card, unless the pharmacy names or logos or both are related to the member selection of specific pharmacies.

(x) Use a plan name that does not include the plan type. The plan type should be included at the end of the plan name, for example, "Super Medicare Drug Plan (PDP)". Part D sponsors are not required to repeat the plan type when the plan name is used multiple times in the same material.

(xi) Claim they are recommended or endorsed by CMS, Medicare, the Secretary, or HHS.

(xii) Convey that a failure to pay premium will not result in disenrollment except for factually accurate descriptions of the PDP sponsor's policies adopted in accordance with ยง 423.44(b)(1) and (d)(1) of this chapter.

(xiii) Use the term "free" to describe a $0 premium, any type of reduction in premium, reduction in deductibles or cost sharing, low-income subsidy, or cost sharing pertaining to dual eligible individuals.

(xiv) State or imply a plan is available only to or is designed for Medicaid beneficiaries.

(xv) Market a Part D plan not designed to serve dual eligible beneficiaries as if it were a plan designed to serve dual eligible beneficiaries.

(xvi) Target marketing efforts primarily to dual eligible individuals.

(xvii) Claim a relationship with the state Medicaid agency, unless a contract to coordinate Medicaid services for enrollees in that plan is in place.

(2) Part D sponsors may do the following:

(i) State that the Part D sponsor is approved to participate in Medicare programs or is contracted to administer Medicare benefits or both.

(ii) Use the term "Medicare-approved" to describe benefits or services in materials or both.
