
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart V - Part D Communication Requirements
###### ยง 423.2265 Websites.
####### General website requirements.

(a)(1) Part D sponsor websites must meet all of the following requirements:

(i) Maintain current year contract content through December 31 of each year.

(ii) Notify users when they will leave the Part D sponsor's Medicare site.

(iii) Include or provide access to (for example, through a hyperlink) applicable notices, statements, disclosures, or disclaimers with corresponding content. Overarching disclaimers, such as the Federal Contracting Statement, are not required on every page.

(iv) Reflect the most current information within 30 days of any material change

(v) Keep PDP content separate and distinct from other lines of business, including Medicare Supplemental Plans.

(2) Part D sponsor websites may not do any of the following:

(i) Require beneficiaries to enter any information other than zip code, county, or state for access to non-beneficiary-specific website content.

(ii) Provide links to foreign drug sales, including advertising links.

(iii) State that the Part D sponsor is not responsible for the content of their social media pages or the website of any first tier, downstream, or related entity that provides information on behalf of the Part D sponsor.
