
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart V - Part D Communication Requirements
###### ยง 423.2274 Agent, broker, and other third-party requirements.
####### Part D sponsor oversight.

(c)Part D sponsors must oversee first tier, downstream, and related entities that represent Part D sponsor to ensure agents and brokers abide by all applicable State and Federal laws, regulations, and requirements. Part D sponsors must do all of the following:

(1) As required under applicable State law, employ as marketing representatives only individuals who are licensed by the State to conduct marketing (as defined in this subpart) of health insurance in that State, and whom the Part D sponsor has informed that State it has appointed, consistent with the appointment process for agents and brokers provided for under State law.

(2) As required under applicable State law, report the termination of an agent or broker to the State and the reason for termination if required by state law.

(3) Report to CMS all enrollments made by unlicensed agents or brokers and for-cause terminations of agents or brokers.

(4) On an annual basis, provide training and testing to agents and brokers on Medicare rules and regulations, the plan products that agents and brokers will sell including any details specific to each plan product, and relevant State and Federal requirements.

(5) On an annual basis by the last Friday in July, report to CMS whether the Part D sponsor intends to use employed, captive, or independent agents or brokers in the upcoming plan year and the specific rates or range of rates the plan will pay independent agents and brokers. Following the reporting deadline, Part D sponsor may not change their decisions related to agent or broker type, or their compensation rates and ranges, until the next plan year.

(6) On an annual basis by October 1, have in place full compensation structures for the following plan year. The structure must include details on compensation dissemination, including specifying payment amounts for initial enrollment year and renewal year compensation.

(7) Submit agent or broker marketing materials to CMS through HPMS prior to use, following the requirements for marketing materials in this subpart.

(8) Ensure beneficiaries are not charged marketing consulting fees when considering enrollment in Part D plans.

(9) Establish and maintain a system for confirming that:

(i) Beneficiaries enrolled by agents or brokers understand the product, including the rules applicable under the plan.

(ii) Agents and brokers appropriately complete Scope of Appointment records for all marketing appointments (including telephonic and walk-in).

(10) Demonstrate that marketing resources are allocated to marketing to the disabled Medicare population as well as to Medicare beneficiaries age 65 and over.

(11) Must comply with State requests for information about the performance of a licensed agent or broker as part of a state investigation into the individual's conduct. CMS will establish and maintain a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to share compliance and oversight information with States that agree to the MOU.
