
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart V - Part D Communication Requirements
###### ยง 423.2274 Agent, broker, and other third-party requirements.
####### TPMO oversight.

(g)In addition to any applicable FDR requirements under ยง 423.505(i), when doing business with a TPMO, either directly or indirectly through a downstream entity, Part D sponsor must implement the following as a part of their oversight of TPMOs:

(1) When TPMOs is not otherwise an FDR, the Part D sponsor is responsible for ensuring that the TPMO adheres to any requirements that apply to the Part D sponsor.

(2) Contracts, written arrangements, and agreements between the TPMO and a Part D plan, or between a TPMO and a Part D plan's FDR, must ensure the TPMO:

(i) Discloses to the plan any subcontracted relationships used for marketing, lead generation, and enrollment.

(ii) Record all calls with beneficiaries in their entirety, including the enrollment process.

(iii) Report to plans monthly any staff disciplinary actions or violations of any requirements that apply to the Part D sponsor associated with beneficiary interaction to the plan.

(iv) Use the TPMO disclaimer as required under ยง 423.2267(e)(41).

(3) Ensure that the TPMO, when conducting lead generating activities, either directly or indirectly for a Part D sponsor, must, when applicable:

(i) Disclose to the beneficiary that his or her information will be provided to a licensed agent for future contact. This disclosure must be provided:

(A) Verbally when communicating with a beneficiary through telephone;

(B) In writing when communicating with a beneficiary through mail or other paper; and

(C) Electronically when communicating with a beneficiary through email, online chat, or other electronic messaging platform.

(ii) When applicable, disclose to the beneficiary that he or she is being transferred to a licensed agent who can enroll him or her into a new plan.
