
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 423 - VOLUNTARY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
##### Subpart W - Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program
###### ยง 423.2330 Manufacturer discount payment audit and dispute resolution.
####### Dispute resolution.

(c)(1) Manufacturers may dispute applicable discounts invoiced to the manufacturer on quarterly invoices by providing notice of the dispute to the TPA in a manner specified by CMS within 60 days of receipt of the information that is the subject of the dispute.

(2) Such notice must be accompanied by supporting evidence that is material, specific, and related to the dispute in a manner specified by CMS.

(3) The manufacturer must not withhold any invoiced discount payments pending dispute resolution with the sole exception of invoiced amounts for applicable drugs that do not have labeler codes provided by the manufacturer to CMS in accordance with ยง 423.2315(b)(4). If payment is withheld in accordance with this paragraph, the manufacturer must notify the TPA and applicable Part D sponsors within 38 days of receipt of the applicable invoice that payment is being withheld for this reason.

(4) If the manufacturer receives an unfavorable determination from the TPA, or the dispute is not resolved within 60 calendar days of the TPA's receipt of the notice of dispute, the manufacturer may request review by the independent review entity contracted by CMS within-

(i) Thirty calendar days of the unfavorable determination; or

(ii) Ninety calendar days after the TPA's receipt of the notice of dispute if dispute is not resolved within 60 days, whichever is earlier.

(5) The independent review entity must make a determination within 90 calendar days of receipt of the manufacturer's request for review.

(6)(i) CMS or a manufacturer that receives an unfavorable determination from the independent review entity may request review by the CMS Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notification of such determination.

(ii) The decision of the CMS Administrator is final and binding.

(7) CMS adjusts future invoices (or implements an alternative reimbursement process if determined necessary by CMS) if the dispute is resolved in favor of the manufacturer.
