
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification and Plan Requirements
###### ยง 424.22 Requirements for home health services.
####### Certification,Content of certification.

(a)-(1)As a condition for payment of home health services under Medicare Part A or Medicare Part B, a physician or allowed practitioner must certify the patient's eligibility for the home health benefit, as outlined in sections 1814(a)(2)(C) and 1835(a)(2)(A) of the Act, as follows in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The patient's medical record, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, must support the certification of eligibility as outlined in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The individual needs or needed intermittent skilled nursing care, or physical therapy or speech-language pathology services as defined in ยง 409.42(c) of this chapter. If a patient's underlying condition or complication requires a registered nurse to ensure that essential non-skilled care is achieving its purpose, and necessitates a registered nurse be involved in the development, management, and evaluation of a patient's care plan, the physician or allowed practitioner will include a brief narrative describing the clinical justification of this need. If the narrative is part of the certification form, then the narrative must be located immediately prior to the physician or allowed practitioner's signature signature. If the narrative exists as an addendum to the certification form, in addition to the physician or allowed practitioner's signature signature on the certification form, the physician or allowed practitioner must sign immediately following the narrative in the addendum.

(ii) Home health services are or were required because the individual is or was confined to the home, as defined in sections 1835(a) and 1814(a) of the Act, except when receiving outpatient services.

(iii) A plan for furnishing the services has been established and will be or was periodically reviewed by a physician or allowed practitioner and who is not precluded from performing this function under paragraph (d) of this section.

(iv) The services will be or were furnished while the individual was under the care of a physician or allowed practitioner.

(v) A face-to-face patient encounter, which is related to the primary reason the patient requires home health services, occurred no more than 90 days prior to the home health start of care date or within 30 days of the start of the home health care and was performed by physician or non-physician practitioner defined in paragraph (a)(1)(v)(A) of this section. The certifying physician or certifying allowed practitioner must also document the date of the encounter as part of the certification.

(A) The face-to-face encounter must be performed by one of the following:
