
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification and Plan Requirements
###### ยง 424.22 Requirements for home health services.
####### Determining patient eligibility for Medicare home health services.

(c)(1) Documentation in the certifying physician or allowed practitioner's medical record or the acute/post-acute care facility's medical records (if the patient was directly admitted to home health) or both must be used as the basis for certification of the patient's eligibility for home health as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section. Documentation from the HHA may also be used to support the basis for certification of home health eligibility, but only if the following requirements are met:

(i) The documentation from the HHA can be corroborated by other medical record entries in the certifying physician or allowed practitioner's medical record for the patient or the acute/post-acute care facility's medical record for the patient or both, thereby creating a clinically consistent picture that the patient is eligible for Medicare home health services.

(ii)(A) The certifying physician or allowed practitioner signs and dates the HHA documentation demonstrating that the documentation from the HHA was considered when certifying patient eligibility for Medicare home health services.

(B) HHA documentation can include, but is not limited to, the patient's plan of care required under ยง 409.43 of this chapter, or the initial or comprehensive assessment of the patient required under ยง 484.55 of this chapter.

(2) The documentation must be provided upon request to review entities or CMS or both. If the documentation used as the basis for the certification of eligibility is not sufficient to demonstrate that the patient is or was eligible to receive services under the Medicare home health benefit, payment is not rendered for home health services provided.
