
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart C - Claims for Payment
###### ยง 424.36 Signature requirements.
####### Who may sign when the beneficiary is incapable.

(b)If the beneficiary is physically or mentally incapable of signing the claim, the claim may be signed on his or her behalf by one of the following:

(1) The beneficiary's legal guardian.

(2) A relative or other person who receives social security or other governmental benefits on the beneficiary's behalf.

(3) A relative or other person who arranges for the beneficiary's treatment or exercises other responsibility for his or her affairs.

(4) A representative of an agency or institution that did not furnish the services for which payment is claimed but furnished other care, services, or assistance to the beneficiary.

(5) A representative of the provider or of the nonparticipating hospital claiming payment for services it has furnished if the provider or nonparticipating hospital is unable to have the claim signed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section after making reasonable efforts to locate and obtain the signature of one of the individuals specified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section.

(6) An ambulance provider or supplier with respect to emergency or nonemergency ambulance transport services, if the following conditions and documentation requirements are met.

(i) None of the individuals listed in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section was available or willing to sign the claim on behalf of the beneficiary at the time the service was provided;

(ii) The ambulance provider or supplier maintains in its files the following information and documentation for a period of at least four years from the date of service:

(A) A contemporaneous statement, signed by an ambulance employee present during the trip to the receiving facility, that, at the time the service was provided, the beneficiary was physically or mentally incapable of signing the claim and that none of the individuals listed in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section were available or willing to sign the claim on behalf of the beneficiary, and

(B) Documentation with the date and time the beneficiary was transported, and the name and location of the facility that received the beneficiary, and

(C) Either of the following:
