
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart C - Claims for Payment
###### ยง 424.44 Time limits for filing claims.
####### Exceptions to time limits.

(b)Exceptions to the time limits for filing claims include the following:

(1) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section was caused by error or misrepresentation of an employee, Medicare contractor (including Medicare Administrative Contractor, intermediary, or carrier), or agent of HHS that was performing Medicare functions and acting within the scope of its authority.

(2) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section is caused by all of the following conditions:

(i) At the time the service was furnished the beneficiary was not entitled to Medicare.

(ii) The beneficiary subsequently received notification of Medicare entitlement effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.

(3) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section is caused by all of the following conditions:

(i) At the time the service was furnished the beneficiary was not entitled to Medicare.

(ii) The beneficiary subsequently received notification of Medicare entitlement effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.

(iii) A State Medicaid agency recovered the Medicaid payment for the furnished service from a provider or supplier 6 months or more after the service was furnished.

(4) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section is caused by all of the following conditions:

(i) At the time the service was furnished the beneficiary was enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization.

(ii) The beneficiary was subsequently disenrolled from the Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.

(iii) The Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization recovered its payment for the furnished service from a provider or supplier 6 months or more after the service was furnished.
