
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart D - To Whom Payment Is Ordinarily Made
###### ยง 424.57 Special payment rules for items furnished by DMEPOS suppliers and issuance of DMEPOS supplier billing privileges.
####### General rule.

(b)A DMEPOS supplier must meet the following conditions in order to be eligible to receive payment for a Medicare-covered item:

(1) The supplier has submitted a completed application to CMS to furnish Medicare-covered items including required enrollment forms. (The supplier must enroll separate physical locations it uses to furnish Medicare-covered DMEPOS, with the exception of locations that it uses solely as warehouses or repair facilities.)

(2) The item was furnished on or after the date CMS issued to the supplier a DMEPOS supplier number conveying billing privileges. (CMS issues only one supplier number for each location.) This requirement does not apply to items furnished incident to a physician's service.

(3) CMS has not revoked or excluded the DMEPOS supplier's privileges during the period which the item was furnished has not been revoked or excluded.

(4) A supplier that furnishes a drug used as a Medicare-covered supply with durable medical equipment or prosthetic devices must be licensed by the State to dispense drugs (A supplier of drugs must bill and receive payment for the drug in its own name. A physician, who is enrolled as a DMEPOS supplier, may dispense, and bill for, drugs under this standard if authorized by the State as part of the physician's license.)

(5) The supplier has furnished to CMS all information or documentation required to process the claim.

(6) The supplier is in compliance with all conditions of payment in paragraph (b) of this section, as well as with paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, at the time the item or service is furnished.
