
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart D - To Whom Payment Is Ordinarily Made
###### § 424.57 Special payment rules for items furnished by DMEPOS suppliers and issuance of DMEPOS supplier billing privileges.
####### ii

() Practicing in a State that does not offer State licensure for orthotic and prosthetic personnel.

(B) Is in a location that is accessible to the public, Medicare beneficiaries, CMS, NSC, and its agents. (The location must not be in a gated community or other area where access is restricted.)

(C) Is accessible and staffed during posted hours of operation.

(D) Maintains a permanent visible sign in plain view and posts hours of operation. If the supplier's place of business is located within a building complex, the sign must be visible at the main entrance of the building or the hours can be posted at the entrance of the supplier.

(E) Except for business records that are stored in centralized location as described in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, is in a location that contains space for storing business records (including the supplier's delivery, maintenance, and beneficiary communication records).

(F) Is in a location that contains space for retaining the necessary ordering and referring documentation specified in § 424.516(f).

(ii) May be the centralized location for all of the business records and the ordering and referring documentation of a multisite supplier.

(iii) May be a "closed door" business, such as a pharmacy or supplier providing services only to beneficiaries residing in a nursing home, that complies with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. "Closed door" businesses must comply with all the requirements in this paragraph.

(8) Permits CMS, the NSC, or agents of CMS or the NSC to conduct on-site inspections to ascertain supplier compliance with the requirements of this section.

(9) Maintains a primary business telephone that is operating at the appropriate site listed under the name of the business locally or toll-free for beneficiaries.

(i) Cellular phones, beepers, or pagers must not be used as the primary business telephone.

(ii) Calls must not be exclusively forwarded from the primary business telephone listed under the name of the business to a cellular phone, beeper, or pager.

(iii) Answering machines, answering services, facsimile machines or combination of these options must not be used exclusively as the primary business telephone during posted operating hours.

(10) Has a comprehensive liability insurance policy in the amount of at least $300,000 that covers both the supplier's place of business and all customers and employees of the supplier. In the case of a supplier that manufactures its own items, this insurance must also cover product liability and completed operations. Failure to maintain required insurance at all times will result in revocation of the supplier's billing privileges retroactive to the date the insurance lapsed;

(11) Must agree not to contact a beneficiary by telephone when supplying a Medicare-covered item unless one of the following applies:

(i) The individual has given written permission to the supplier to contact them by telephone concerning the furnishing of a Medicare-covered item that is to be rented or purchased.

(ii) The supplier has furnished a Medicare-covered item to the individual and the supplier is contacting the individual to coordinate the delivery of the item.

(iii) If the contact concerns the furnishing of a Medicare-covered item other than a covered item already furnished to the individual, the supplier has furnished at least one covered item to the individual during the 15-month period preceding the date on which the supplier makes such contact.

(12) Must be responsible for the delivery of Medicare covered items to beneficiaries and maintain proof of delivery. (The supplier must document that it or another qualified party has at an appropriate time, provided beneficiaries with necessary information and instructions on how to use Medicare-covered items safely and effectively);

(13) Must answer questions and respond to complaints a beneficiary has about the Medicare-covered item that was sold or rented. A supplier must refer beneficiaries with Medicare questions to the appropriate carrier. A supplier must maintain documentation of contacts with beneficiaries regarding complaints or questions;

(14) Must maintain and replace at no charge or repair directly, or through a service contract with another company, Medicare-covered items it has rented to beneficiaries. The item must function as required and intended after being repaired or replaced;

(15) Must accept returns from beneficiaries of substandard (less than full quality for the particular item or unsuitable items, inappropriate for the beneficiary at the time it was fitted and rented or sold);

(16) Must disclose these supplier standards to each beneficiary to whom it supplies a Medicare-covered item;

(17) Must comply with the disclosure provisions in § 420.206 of this subchapter;

(18) Must not convey or reassign a supplier number;

(19) Must have a complaint resolution protocol to address beneficiary complaints that relate to supplier standards in paragraph (c) of this section and keep written complaints, related correspondence and any notes of actions taken in response to written and oral complaints. Failure to maintain such information may be considered evidence that supplier standards have not been met. (This information must be kept at its physical facility and made available to CMS, upon request.);

(20) Must maintain the following information on all written and oral beneficiary complaints, including telephone complaints, it receives:

(i) The name, address, telephone number, and health insurance claim number of the beneficiary.

(ii) A summary of the complaint; the date it was received; the name of the person receiving the complaint, and a summary of actions taken to resolve the complaint.

(iii) If an investigation was not conducted, the name of the person making the decision and the reason for the decision.

(21) Provides to CMS, upon request, any information required by the Medicare statute and implementing regulations.

(22) All suppliers of DMEPOS and other items and services must be accredited by a CMS-approved accreditation organization in order to receive and retain a supplier billing number. The accreditation must indicate the specific products and services, for which the supplier is accredited in order for the supplier to receive payment for those specific products and services.

(23) All DMEPOS suppliers must notify their accreditation organization when a new DMEPOS location is opened. The accreditation organization may accredit the new supplier location for three months after it is operational without requiring a new site visit.

(24) All DMEPOS supplier locations, whether owned or subcontracted, must meet the DMEPOS quality standards and be separately accredited in order to bill Medicare. An accredited supplier may be denied enrollment or their enrollment may be revoked, if CMS determines that they are not in compliance with the DMEPOS quality standards.

(25) All DMEPOS suppliers must disclose upon enrollment all products and services, including the addition of new product lines for which they are seeking accreditation. If a new product line is added after enrollment, the DMEPOS supplier will be responsible for notifying the accrediting body of the new product so that the DMEPOS supplier can be re-surveyed and accredited for these new products.

(26) Must meet the surety bond requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(27) Must obtain oxygen from a State-licensed oxygen supplier (applicable only to those suppliers in States that require oxygen licensure.)

(28) Is required to maintain ordering and referring documentation consistent with the provisions found in § 424.516(f)

(29)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(29)(ii) of this section, is prohibited from sharing a practice location with any other Medicare supplier or provider.

(ii) The prohibition specified in paragraph (c)(29)(i) of this section is not applicable at a practice location that meets one of the following:

(A) Where a physician whose services are defined in section 1848(j)(3) of the Act or a nonphysician practitioner, as described in section 1842(b)(18)(C) of the Act, furnishes items to his or her own patient as part of his or her professional service.

(B) Where a physical or occupational therapist whose services are defined in sections 1861(p) and 1861(g) of the Act, furnishes items to his or her own patient as part of his or her professional service.

(C) Where a DMEPOS supplier is co-located with and owned by an enrolled Medicare provider (as described in § 489.2(b) of this chapter). The DMEPOS supplier-
