
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart E - To Whom Payment is Made in Special Situations
###### ยง 424.62 Payment after beneficiary's death: Bill has been paid.
####### Persons whom Medicare pays.

(c)In the situation described in paragraph (b) of this section, Medicare pays the following persons in the specified circumstances:

(1) The person or persons who, without a legal obligation to do so, paid for the services with their own funds, before or after the beneficiary's death.

(2) The legal representative of the beneficiary's estate if the services were paid for by the beneficiary before he or she died, or with funds from the estate.

(3) If the deceased beneficiary or his or her estate paid for the services and no legal representative of the estate has been appointed, the survivors, in the following order of priority:

(i) The person found by SSA to be the surviving spouse, if he or she was either living in the same household with the deceased at the time of death, or was, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased beneficiary;

(ii) The child or children, who were, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one child, in equal parts to each child);

(iii) The parent or parents, who were, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one parent, in equal parts to each parent);

(iv) The person found by SSA to be the surviving spouse who was not living in the same household with the deceased at the time of death and was not, for the month of death, entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased beneficiary;

(v) The child or children who were not entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one child, in equal parts to each child);

(vi) The parent or parents who were not entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased (and, if there is more than one parent, in equal parts to each parent).

(4) If none of the listed relatives survive, no payment is made.

(5) If the services were paid for by a person other than the deceased beneficiary, and that person died before payment was completed, Medicare does not pay that person's estate. Medicare pays a surviving relative of the deceased beneficiary in accordance with the priorities in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If none of those relatives survive. Medicare pays the legal representative of the deceased beneficiary's estate. If there is no legal representative of the estate, no payment is made.
