
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart E - To Whom Payment is Made in Special Situations
###### § 424.67 Enrollment requirements for opioid treatment programs (OTP).
####### 2

() A W-2 employee of the OTP.

(ii) Must not employ or contract with any personnel (regardless of whether the individual is a W-2 employee of the OTP) who is revoked from Medicare under § 424.535 or any other applicable section in Title 42, or who is on the preclusion list under § 422.222 or § 423.120(c)(6) of this chapter.

(iii) Must not employ or contract with any personnel (regardless of whether the individual is a W-2 employee of the OTP) who has a prior adverse action by a State oversight board, including, but not limited to, a reprimand, fine, or restriction, for a case or situation involving patient harm that CMS deems detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program and its beneficiaries. CMS will consider the factors enumerated at § 424.535(a)(22) in each case of patient harm that potentially applies to this paragraph.

(7)(i) Sign (and adhere to the term of) a provider agreement in accordance with the provisions of part 489 of this chapter.

(ii) An OTP's appeals under part 498 of a Medicare revocation (under § 424.535) and a provider agreement termination (under § 489.53 of this chapter) must be filed jointly and, as applicable, considered jointly by CMS under part 498 of this chapter.

(8) Comply with all other applicable requirements for enrollment specified in this section and in subpart P of this part.
