
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart E - To Whom Payment is Made in Special Situations
###### § 424.67 Enrollment requirements for opioid treatment programs (OTP).
####### Specific requirements and standards for enrollment.

(b)To enroll in the Medicare program, an OTP must meet all of the following requirements and standards:

(1) Fully complete and submit, as applicable, the Form CMS-855A or Form CMS-855B application (or their successor applications) and any applicable supplement or attachment thereto to its applicable Medicare contractor. This includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) Maintain and submit to CMS (via the applicable supplement or attachment) a list of all physicians, other eligible professionals, and pharmacists (regardless of whether the individual is a W-2 employee of the OTP) who are legally authorized to prescribe, order, or dispense controlled substances on behalf of the OTP. The list must include the physician's, other eligible professional's, or pharmacist's:

(A) First and last name, and middle initial.

(B) Social Security Number.

(C) National Provider Identifier.

(D) License number (if applicable).

(ii) Certifying via the Form CMS-855A or Form CMS-855B (as applicable) and/or the applicable supplement or attachment thereto that the OTP meets and will continue to meet the specific requirements and standards for enrollment described in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section.

(2) Comply with the application fee requirements in § 424.514. (This includes OTPs enrolling under the circumstances described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.)

(3)(i) Except as stated in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, successfully complete the assigned categorical risk level screening required under, as applicable, § 424.518(b) and (c).

(ii) For currently enrolled OTPs that are changing their OTP enrollment from a Form CMS-855B enrollment to a Form CMS-855A enrollment, or vice versa, successfully complete the limited level of categorical screening under § 424.518(a) if the OTP has already completed, as applicable, the moderate or high level of categorical screening under § 424.518(b) or (c), respectively.

(4)(i) Have a current, valid certification by SAMHSA for an opioid treatment program consistent with the provisions and requirements of § 8.11 of this title.

(ii) A provisional certification under § 8.11(e) of this title does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) Report on the Form CMS-855A or Form CMS-855B (as applicable) and/or any applicable supplement all OTP staff who meet the definition of "managing employee" in § 424.502. Such individuals include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Medical director (as described in § 8.2 of this title).

(ii) Program sponsor (as described in § 8.2 of this title).

(6)(i)(A) Must not employ or contract with a prescribing or ordering physician or eligible professional or with any individual legally authorized to dispense narcotics who, within the preceding 10 years, has been convicted (as that term is defined in 42 CFR 1001.2) of a Federal or State felony that CMS deems detrimental to the best interests of the Medicare program and its beneficiaries based on the same categories of detrimental felonies, as well as case by case detrimental determinations, found at § 424.535(a)(3).

(B) Paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) of this section applies regardless of whether the individual in question is:
