
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart E - To Whom Payment is Made in Special Situations
###### § 424.67 Enrollment requirements for opioid treatment programs (OTP).
####### Continued compliance, standards, and reasons for revocation.

(e)(1) Upon and after enrollment, an OTP-

(i) Must remain validly certified by SAMHSA as required under § 8.11 of this title.

(ii) Remains subject to, and must remain in full compliance with, the provisions of this section and of subpart P of this part. This includes, but is not limited to, the provisions of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the revalidation provisions in § 424.515, and the deactivation and reactivation provisions in § 424.540.

(iii) Upon revalidation, successfully complete the moderate categorical risk level screening required under § 424.518(b).

(2) CMS may revoke an OTP's enrollment on any of the following grounds:

(i) The provider does not have a current, valid certification by SAMHSA as required under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section or fails to meet any other applicable requirement or standard in this section, including, but not limited to, the OTP standards in paragraphs (b)(6) and (e)(1) of this section.

(ii) Any of the revocation reasons in § 424.535 applies.

(3) An OTP may appeal the revocation of its enrollment under part 498 of this title.
