
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Suppliers and Beneficiary Engagement Incentives Under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Expanded Model
###### ยง 424.205 Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program suppliers.
####### Conditions for MDPP supplier enrollment.

(b)An entity may enroll as an MDPP supplier only if it satisfies the following requirements and all other applicable Medicare enrollment requirements:

(1) Has either an MDPP preliminary recognition, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or a full CDC DPRP recognition.

(2) Maintains an active and valid TIN and NPI at the organizational level.

(3) Has passed screening requirements as follows:

(i) Upon initial enrollment, at a "high" categorical risk in accordance with ยง 424.518(c)(2); and

(ii) Upon revalidation, at a "moderate" categorical risk in accordance with ยง 424.518(b)(2).

(4) Maintains, and submits to CMS through the CMS-approved enrollment application, a roster of all coaches who will be furnishing MDPP services on the entity's behalf that includes each coach's first and last names, middle initial (if applicable), date of birth, Social Security Number (SSN), active and valid NPI, coach eligibility start date, and coach eligibility end date (if applicable). This roster must be updated in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(5) The Medicare provider enrollment application fee does not apply to all Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program (MDPP) suppliers that submit an enrollment application on or after January 1, 2022.

(6) Meets and certifies in its CMS-approved enrollment application that it meets and will continue to meet the supplier enrollment standards described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(7) Revalidates its Medicare enrollment every 5 years after the effective date of enrollment.
