
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Suppliers and Beneficiary Engagement Incentives Under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Expanded Model
###### § 424.205 Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program suppliers.
####### Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program supplier standards.

(d)An MDPP supplier must meet and must certify in its CMS-approved enrollment application that it meets and will continue to meet the following standards.

(1) The MDPP supplier must have and maintain MDPP preliminary recognition, as defined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or a full CDC DPRP recognition.

(2) The MDPP supplier must not currently have its billing privileges terminated for-cause or be excluded by a State Medicaid agency.

(3) The MDPP supplier must not include on the roster of coaches, described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section and updated in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section, nor permit MDPP services to be furnished by, any individual coach who meets any of ineligibility criteria outlined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(4) The MDPP supplier must maintain at least one administrative location. All administrative locations maintained by the MDPP supplier must be located at an appropriate site and be reported on the CMS-approved enrollment application. An appropriate site for such an administrative location would include all of the following characteristics:

(i) Signage posted on the exterior of the building or suite, in a building directory, or on materials located inside of the building. Such signage may include, for example, the MDPP supplier's legal business name or DBA, as well as hours of operation.

(ii) Open for business during stated operational hours.

(iii) Employees, staff, or volunteers present during operational hours; and

(iv) Not a private residence.

(5) The MDPP supplier must update its enrollment application within 30 days of any changes of ownership, changes to the coach roster (including due to coach ineligibility or because the coach is no longer an employee, contractor, or volunteer of the MDPP supplier), and final adverse action history, and report all other changes, including but not limited to changes in the MDPP supplier's administrative location(s), to CMS within 90 days of the reportable event.

(6) The MDPP supplier must maintain a primary business telephone that operates either at administrative locations described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section or directly where services are furnished, if services are furnished in community settings. The associated telephone number must be listed with either the legal or doing business as name of the supplier in public view, including on Web sites, flyers, and materials.

(7) The MDPP supplier must not knowingly sell to or allow another individual or entity to use its supplier billing number.

(8) Subject to paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section, the MDPP supplier must not deny an MDPP beneficiary access to MDPP services during the MDPP services period described in § 410.79(c)(2) of this chapter, including on the basis of the beneficiary's weight, health status, or achievement of performance goals.

(i) Suppliers may deny an MDPP beneficiary access to MDPP services during the MDPP services period only under one of the following conditions:

(A) The MDPP beneficiary no longer meets the eligibility criteria for MDPP services under § 410.79(c)(1) of this chapter.

(B) The MDPP supplier lacks the self-determined publicly-posted capacity to furnish MDPP services to a given MDPP beneficiary.

(C) The MDPP supplier determines that the MDPP beneficiary significantly disrupts the session for other MDPP beneficiaries or becomes abusive.

(ii) MDPP suppliers must maintain a record of the number of MDPP beneficiaries for whom it declined access away for the reasons outlined in paragraphs (d)(8)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, to include the date each such beneficiary was declined access. For beneficiaries who were declined access for the reasons described in paragraph (d)(8)(i)(C) of this section, the MDPP supplier must document details of the occurrence(s), including date(s) of the behavior, any remediation efforts taken by the MDPP supplier, and final action (for example, dismissal from an MDPP session or denial from future sessions) in the beneficiary's MDPP records.

(9) The MDPP supplier and other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to MDPP services on the MDPP supplier's behalf must not unduly coerce an MDPP beneficiary's decision to change or not to change to a different MDPP supplier, including through the use of pressure, intimidation, or bribery.

(10) Except as allowed under paragraph (d)(8) of this section, the MDPP supplier must offer an MDPP beneficiary no fewer than all of the following:

(i) 16 in-person core sessions no more frequently than weekly for the first 6 months of the MDPP services period, which beginnings on the date of attendance at the first such core session.

(ii) 1 in-person core maintenance session each month during months 7 through 12 (6 months total) of the MDPP services period.

(iii) 1 in-person ongoing maintenance session each month for months 13 through 24 of the MDPP services period, as long as the beneficiary maintains eligibility to receive such services in accordance with § 410.79(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this chapter.

(11) Before the initial core session is furnished, the MDPP supplier must disclose detailed information about the set of MDPP services to each MDPP beneficiary to whom it wishes to begin furnishing MDPP services. Such information must include all of the following:

(i) Eligibility requirements under § 410.79(c)(1) of this chapter, including the once-per-lifetime nature of MDPP services.

(ii) Minimum coverage requirements under § 410.79(c)(2).

(iii) The MDPP supplier standards as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(12) The MDPP supplier must answer MDPP beneficiaries' questions about MDPP services and respond to MDPP-related complaints within a reasonable timeframe. An MDPP supplier must implement a complaint resolution protocol and maintain documentation of all beneficiary contact regarding such complaints, including the name and Medicare Beneficiary Identifier of the beneficiary, a summary of the complaint, related correspondences, notes of actions taken, and the names and/or NPIs of individuals who took such actions on behalf of the MDPP supplier. Failure to maintain a complaint resolution protocol or to retain information regarding MDPP related complaints in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section may be considered evidence that the MPPP supplier standards have not been met. This information must be kept at each administrative location and made available to CMS or its contractors upon request.

(13) The MDPP supplier must maintain a crosswalk file which indicates how beneficiary identifications for the purposes of CDC performance data requirements correspond to corresponding beneficiary health insurance claims numbers or Medicare Beneficiary Identifiers for each MDPP beneficiary receiving MDPP services from the MDPP supplier. The MDPP supplier must submit the crosswalk file to CMS or its contractor.

(14) The MDPP supplier must submit performance data for MDPP beneficiaries who attend ongoing maintenance sessions with data elements consistent with the CDC's DPRP standards for data elements required for the core services period.

(15) The MDPP supplier must allow CMS or its agents to conduct onsite inspections or recordkeeping reviews in order to ascertain the MDPP supplier's compliance with these standards, and must adhere to the documentation requirements as outlined in paragraph (g) of this section.
