
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Suppliers and Beneficiary Engagement Incentives Under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Expanded Model
###### ยง 424.205 Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program suppliers.
####### Coach eligibility,Criteria.

(e)-(1)To furnish MDPP services to a beneficiary, an MDPP coach must not:

(i) Currently have Medicare billing privileges revoked and be currently subject to the reenrollment bar.

(ii) Currently have its Medicaid billing privileges terminated for-cause or be excluded by a State Medicaid agency.

(iii) Currently be excluded from any other Federal health care program, as defined in 42 CFR 1001.2, in accordance with section 1128, 1128A, 1156, 1842, 1862, 1867 or 1892 of the Act.

(iv) Currently be debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded from participating in any other Federal procurement or nonprocurement program or activity in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act implementing regulations and the Department of Health and Human Services nonprocurement common rule at 45 CFR part 76.

(v) Have, in the previous 10 years, one of the following State or Federal felony convictions:

(A) Crimes against persons, such as murder, rape, assault, and other similar crimes for which the individual was convicted, as defined under 42 CFR 1001.2, had a guilty plea or adjudicated pretrial diversion.

(B) Financial crimes, such as extortion, embezzlement, income tax evasion, insurance fraud and other similar crimes for which the individual was convicted, as defined under 42 CFR 1001.2, had a guilty plea or adjudicated pretrial diversion.

(C) Any felony that placed Medicare or its beneficiaries at immediate risk, such as a malpractice suit that results in the individual being convicted, as defined under 42 CFR 1001.2, had a guilty plea or adjudicated pretrial diversion of criminal neglect or misconduct.

(D) Any felonies for which the individual was convicted, as defined under 42 CFR 1001.2, had a guilty plea or adjudicated pretrial diversion that would result in mandatory exclusion under section 1128(a) of the Act.
