
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Suppliers and Beneficiary Engagement Incentives Under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Expanded Model
###### § 424.205 Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program suppliers.
####### Documentation retention and provision requirements.

(g)An MDPP supplier must maintain all documentation related to participation in the MDPP in accordance with all applicable Federal and State laws. The MDPP supplier must provide to CMS, a contractor acting on CMS' behalf, the Office of the Inspector General, and the Comptroller General or their designee(s) scheduled and unscheduled access to the MDPP supplier's records, including, but not limited to, all books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence sufficient to enable the audit, evaluation, inspection, or investigation of the MDPP supplier's compliance with the MDPP expanded model's requirements, including the MDPP expanded model requirements for in-kind beneficiary incentive engagements in § 424.210 of this chapter in the event that the MDPP supplier chooses to offer such incentives to any MDPP beneficiary.

(1) The documentation for the first core session must be established contemporaneous with the furnishing of MDPP services and must include at least all of the following:

(i) Organizational information, including MDPP supplier name, CDC DPRP number, and NPI.

(ii) Basic beneficiary information for each MDPP beneficiary in attendance, including but not limited to beneficiary name, HICN, or MBI, age.

(iii) Evidence that each such beneficiary satisfied the eligibility requirements under § 410.79(c) of this chapter at the time of service.

(2) The documentation for each MDPP session attended by an MDPP must be established contemporaneous with the furnishing of MDPP services and must include at least all of the following:

(i) Documentation of the type of session, whether a core session, a core maintenance session, an ongoing maintenance session, an in-person make-up session, or a virtual make-up session.

(ii) Identification of which CDC-approved DPRP curriculum was associated with the session.

(iii) The NPI of the coach who furnished the session.

(iv) The date and place of service of the session.

(v) Each MDPP's beneficiary's weight and date weight taken, in a form and manner as specified by CMS.

(3) If an MDPP supplier chooses to offer in-kind beneficiary engagement incentives to MDPP beneficiaries as permitted under § 424.210, the records maintained by the MDPP supplier in accordance with this section must also include the information required by § 424.210(e).

(4) An MDPP supplier is required to maintain and handle any beneficiary information related to MDPP, including Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Protected Health Information (PHI), as would be required under HIPAA, other applicable state and federal privacy laws, and CMS standards.

(5) The MDPP supplier's records must include an attestation from the MDPP supplier that, as applicable, the MDPP beneficiary for which it is submitting a claim-

(i) Has attended their first, fourth or ninth core session, as applicable, if the claim submitted is for a performance payment under § 414.84(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this chapter.

(ii) Has attended at least three core maintenance sessions, achieved required minimum weight loss, or both, as applicable, if the claim submitted is for a performance payment under § 414.84(b)(4) of this chapter.

(iii) Has achieved the required minimum weight loss and attended at least three ongoing maintenance sessions within an ongoing maintenance session interval, if the claim submitted is for a performance payment under § 414.84(b)(5) of this chapter, if the claim submitted is for a performance payment under § 414.84(b)(6) of this chapter.

(iv) Has achieved required minimum weight loss as measured in-person during a core session or core maintenance session furnished by that supplier, if the claim submitted is for a performance payment under § 414.84(b)(6) of this chapter.

(v) Has achieved at least a 9-percent weight loss percentage as measured in-person during a core session, core maintenance session, or ongoing maintenance session furnished by that supplier, if the claim submitted is for a performance payment under § 414.84(b)(7) of this chapter.

(6) The MDPP supplier must maintain all records required under this section for a period of 10 years from the last day of the MDPP beneficiary's receipt of MDPP services provided by the MDPP supplier or from the date of completion of any audit, evaluation, inspection, or investigation, whichever is later, unless either of the following apply:

(i) CMS determines that there is a special need to retain a particular record or group of records for a longer period and notifies the MDPP supplier at least 30 calendar days before the normal disposition rate; or

(ii) There has been a dispute or allegation of fraud or similar fault against the MDPP supplier, in which case the records must be maintained for an additional 6 years from the date of any resulting final resolution of the dispute or allegation of fraud or similar fault, as defined at § 405.902 of this chapter.
