
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Suppliers and Beneficiary Engagement Incentives Under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Expanded Model
###### ยง 424.210 Beneficiary engagement incentives under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program expanded model.
####### Documentation of beneficiary engagement incentives.

(e)In addition to the documentation requirements at ยง 424.205(g), an MDPP supplier must maintain documentation of items and services furnished as in-kind beneficiary engagement incentives that exceed $25 in retail value.

(1) The documentation must be established contemporaneous with the furnishing of the in-kind items and services and must include at least the following:

(i) The date the item or service is furnished.

(ii) The identity of the MDPP beneficiary to whom the item or service is furnished.

(iii) The agent of the MDPP supplier that furnished the item or service, if applicable.

(iv) A description of the item or service.

(v) The retail value of the item or service.

(vi) Documentation establishing that the item or service was furnished to the MDPP beneficiary during the engagement incentive period.

(2) Documentation regarding items or services that are furnished to the MDPP beneficiary for use on an ongoing basis during the engagement incentive period, including items involving technology exceeding $100 in retail value, must also include contemporaneous documentation establishing that the MDPP beneficiary is in the engagement incentive period throughout the time period that the MDPP beneficiary possesses or has access to the item or service furnished by the MDPP supplier.

(3) The documentation regarding items involving technology exceeding $100 in retail value must also include contemporaneous documentation of any attempt to retrieve the item as required by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(4) The MDPP supplier must retain and provide access to the documentation required in this section in accordance with ยง 424.205(g).
