
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Suppliers and Beneficiary Engagement Incentives Under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program Expanded Model
###### ยง 424.210 Beneficiary engagement incentives under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program expanded model.
####### General.

(b)An MDPP supplier may choose to furnish an item or service as an in-kind beneficiary engagement incentive to an MDPP beneficiary only during the engagement incentive period, subject to the following conditions:

(1) The item or service must be furnished directly to an MDPP beneficiary by an MDPP supplier or by an agent of the MDPP supplier, such as a coach, under the MDPP supplier's direction and control.

(2) The item or service must be reasonably connected to the CDC-approved DPP curriculum furnished to the MDPP beneficiary during a core session, core maintenance session, or ongoing maintenance session furnished by the MDPP supplier.

(3) The item or service must be a preventive care item or service or an item or service that advances a clinical goal, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, for an MDPP beneficiary by engaging him or her in better managing his or her own health.

(4) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services outside of the MDPP services.

(5) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services from a particular provider, supplier, or coach.

(6) The availability of the item or service must not be advertised or promoted as an in-kind beneficiary engagement incentive available to an MDPP beneficiary receiving MDPP services from the MDPP supplier except that an MDPP beneficiary may be made aware of the availability of the item or service at the time the MDPP beneficiary could reasonably benefit from it during the engagement incentive period.

(7) The cost of the item or service must not be shifted to another Federal health care program, as defined at section 1128B(f) of the Act.

(8) The cost of the item or service must not be shifted to an MDPP beneficiary.
