
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.510 Requirements for enrolling in the Medicare program.
####### Delegation of authority.

(ii)The original enrollment application submitted for an organization's initial enrollment and all subsequent enrollment applications submitted for periodic revalidation of the organization's enrollment data (as required to maintain enrollment in the Medicare program) must be signed by an authorized official. Any updates or changes reported outside of the initial enrollment or periodic revalidation process may be signed by a delegated official(s) of the organization. The delegated official's signature binds the organization both legally and financially, as if the signature was that of the authorized official. Before the delegation of authority is established, the only acceptable signature on the enrollment application to report updates or changes to the enrollment information is that of the authorized official currently on file with Medicare. Once the delegation of authority is established, the only acceptable signatures on correspondence to report updates or changes to the enrollment information are those of the authorized official and the person(s) to whom this authority is delegated in accordance with the requirements described in this section. Individual practitioners and sole proprietors cannot delegate signature authority when submitting an enrollment application for any reason. All enrollment applications submitted by individual practitioners and sole proprietors must be signed by the enrolling or enrolled individual. Each delegation of authority to a delegated official must-

(A) Be assigned by the authorized official currently on file with CMS;

(B) Be submitted to CMS using the appropriate enrollment application or CMS established electronic enrollment process;

(C) Include the title and SSN of each person delegated authority to update or change the organization's enrollment information;

(D) Be an individual that has an ownership or control interest in the organization or is a W-2 managing employee as defined in section 1126(b) of the Act; and

(E) Be signed by the authorized official and the delegated official(s) of the organization.
