
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.510 Requirements for enrolling in the Medicare program.
####### Content of the enrollment application.

(2)Each submitted enrollment application must include the following:

(i) Complete, accurate, and truthful responses to all information requested within each section as applicable to the provider or supplier type.

(ii) Submission of all documentation required by CMS under this or other statutory or regulatory authority, or under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, to uniquely identify the provider or supplier. This documentation may include, but is not limited to, proof of the legal business name, practice location, social security number (SSN), tax identification number (TIN), National Provider Identifier (NPI), if issued, and owners of the business.

(iii) Submission of all documentation, including-

(A) All applicable Federal and State licenses, certifications including, but not limited to Federal Aviation Administration; and

(B) Documentation associated with regulatory and statutory requirements necessary to establish a provider's or supplier's eligibility to furnish Medicare covered items or services to beneficiaries in the Medicare program.

(iv) At the time of enrollment, an enrollment change request, revalidation or change of Medicare contractors where the provider or supplier was already receiving payments via EFT, providers and suppliers must agree to receive Medicare payments via EFT, if not already receiving payment through EFT. In order to receive Medicare payments via EFT, providers and suppliers must submit the CMS-588 form.
