
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.515 Requirements for reporting changes and updates to, and the periodic revalidation of Medicare enrollment information.
####### Off Cycle revalidations.

(d)(1) CMS reserves the right to perform off cycle revalidations in addition to the regular 5-year revalidations and may request that a provider or supplier recertify the accuracy of the enrollment information when warranted to assess and confirm the validity of the enrollment information maintained by CMS. Off cycle revalidations may be triggered as a result of random checks, information indicating local health care fraud problems, national initiatives, complaints, or other reasons that cause CMS to question the compliance of the provider or supplier with Medicare enrollment requirements. Off cycle revalidations may be accompanied by site visits.

(2) CMS reserve the right to adjust the routine 5-year revalidation schedule if we determine that revalidation should occur on a more frequent basis due to complaints or evidence we receive indicating noncompliance with the statute or regulations by specific provider or supplier types. The schedule may also be on a less frequent basis if we determine that the integrity of and compliance with the statute and regulations by specific provider or supplier types indicates that less frequent validation is justified. If a change occurs, CMS notifies all affected providers and suppliers at least 90 days in advance of implementing the change.

(3) CMS revalidates enrollment information for ambulance service suppliers in accordance with ยง 410.41(c)(2) of this chapter (Requirements for ambulance suppliers), and DMEPOS suppliers renews enrollment in accordance with ยง 424.57(g) (Special payment rules for items furnished by DMEPOS suppliers and issuance of DMEPOS supplier billing numbers).
