
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.519 Disclosure of affiliations.
####### Undue risk.

(f)Upon receiving the information described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, CMS determines whether any of the disclosed affiliations poses an undue risk of fraud, waste, or abuse by considering the following factors:

(1) The duration of the affiliation.

(2) Whether the affiliation still exists and, if not, how long ago it ended.

(3) The degree and extent of the affiliation.

(4) If applicable, the reason for the termination of the affiliation.

(5) Regarding the affiliated provider's or supplier's disclosable event under paragraph (b) of this section:

(i) The type of disclosable event.

(ii) When the disclosable event occurred or was imposed.

(iii) Whether the affiliation existed when the disclosable event occurred or was imposed.

(iv) If the disclosable event is an uncollected debt:

(A) The amount of the debt.

(B) Whether the affiliated provider or supplier is repaying the debt.

(C) To whom the debt is owed.

(v) If a denial, revocation, termination, exclusion, or payment suspension is involved, the reason for the disclosable event.

(6) Any other evidence that CMS deems relevant to its determination.
