
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 3 - PATIENT SAFETY ORGANIZATIONS AND PATIENT SAFETY WORK PRODUCT
##### Subpart B - PSO Requirements and Agency Procedures
###### ยง 3.102 Process and requirements for initial and continued listing of PSOs.
####### Required certification regarding seven PSO criteria,Initial Listing.

(2)-(i)In its initial certification submission, an entity must also certify that, if listed as a PSO, it will comply with the seven requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) The mission and primary activity of the PSO must be to conduct activities that are to improve patient safety and the quality of health care delivery.

(B) The PSO must have appropriately qualified workforce members, including licensed or certified medical professionals.

(C) The PSO, within the 24-month period that begins on the date of its initial listing as a PSO, and within each sequential 24-month period thereafter, must have 2 bona fide contracts, each of a reasonable period of time, each with a different provider for the purpose of receiving and reviewing patient safety work product.

(D) The PSO is not a health insurance issuer, and is not a component of a health insurance issuer.

(E) The PSO must make disclosures to the Secretary as required under ยง 3.102(d), in accordance with ยง 3.112 of this subpart.

(F) To the extent practical and appropriate, the PSO must collect patient safety work product from providers in a standardized manner that permits valid comparisons of similar cases among similar providers.

(G) The PSO must utilize patient safety work product for the purpose of providing direct feedback and assistance to providers to effectively minimize patient risk.
