
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.535 Revocation of enrollment in the Medicare program.
####### Abuse of billing privileges.

(8)Abuse of billing privileges includes either of the following:

(i) The provider or supplier submits a claim or claims for services that could not have been furnished to a specific individual on the date of service. These instances include but are not limited to the following situations:

(A) Where the beneficiary is deceased.

(B) The directing physician or beneficiary is not in the state or country when services were furnished.

(C) When the equipment necessary for testing is not present where the testing is said to have occurred.

(ii) CMS determines that the provider or supplier has a pattern or practice of submitting claims that fail to meet Medicare requirements. In making this determination, CMS considers, as appropriate or applicable, the following:

(A) The percentage of submitted claims that were denied during the period under consideration.

(B) Whether the provider or supplier has any history of final adverse actions and the nature of any such actions.

(C) The type of billing non-compliance and the specific facts surrounding said non-compliance (to the extent this can be determined).

(D) Any other information regarding the provider or supplier's specific circumstances that CMS deems relevant to its determination.
