
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.535 Revocation of enrollment in the Medicare program.
####### Improper prescribing practices.

(14)CMS determines that the physician or eligible professional has a pattern or practice of prescribing Part B or D drugs that falls into one of the following categories:

(i) The pattern or practice is abusive or represents a threat to the health and safety of Medicare beneficiaries or both. In making this determination, CMS considers the following factors:

(A) Whether there are diagnoses to support the indications for which the drugs were prescribed.

(B) Whether there are instances when the necessary evaluation of the patient for whom the drug was prescribed could not have occurred (for example, the patient was deceased or out of state at the time of the alleged office visit).

(C) Whether the physician or eligible professional has prescribed controlled substances in excessive dosages that are linked to patient overdoses.

(D) The number and type(s) of disciplinary actions taken against the physician or eligible professional by the licensing body or medical board for the State or States in which he or she practices, and the reason(s) for the action(s).

(E) Whether the physician or eligible professional has any history of "final adverse actions" (as that term is defined in ยง 424.502).

(F) The number and type(s) of malpractice suits that have been filed against the physician or eligible professional related to prescribing that have resulted in a final judgment against the physician or eligible professional or in which the physician or eligible professional has paid a settlement to the plaintiff(s) (to the extent this can be determined).

(G) Whether any State Medicaid program or any other public or private health insurance program has restricted, suspended, revoked, or terminated the physician or eligible professional's ability to prescribe medications, and the reason(s) for any such restriction, suspension, revocation, or termination.

(H) Any other relevant information provided to CMS.

(ii) The pattern or practice of prescribing fails to meet Medicare requirements. In making this determination, CMS considers the following factors:

(A) Whether the physician or eligible professional has a pattern or practice of prescribing without valid prescribing authority.

(B) Whether the physician or eligible professional has a pattern or practice of prescribing for controlled substances outside the scope of the prescriber's DEA registration.

(C) Whether the physician or eligible professional has a pattern or practice of prescribing drugs for indications that were not medically accepted-that is, for indications neither approved by the FDA nor medically accepted under section 1860D-2(e)(4) of the Act-and whether there is evidence that the physician or eligible professional acted in reckless disregard for the health and safety of the patient.

(15)-(16) [Reserved]
