
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.535 Revocation of enrollment in the Medicare program.
####### Billing from non-compliant location.

(20)CMS may revoke a provider's or supplier's Medicare enrollment or enrollments, even if all of the practice locations associated with a particular enrollment comply with Medicare enrollment requirements, if the provider or supplier billed for services performed at or items furnished from a location that it knew or should have known did not comply with Medicare enrollment requirements. In determining whether and how many of the provider's or supplier's enrollments, involving the non-compliant location or other locations, should be revoked, CMS considers the following factors:

(i) The reason(s) for and the specific facts behind the location's non-compliance.

(ii) The number of additional locations involved.

(iii) Whether the provider or supplier has any history of final adverse actions or Medicare or Medicaid payment suspensions.

(iv) The degree of risk that the location's continuance poses to the Medicare Trust Funds.

(v) The length of time that the non-compliant location was non-compliant.

(vi) The amount that was billed for services performed at or items furnished from the non-compliant location.

(vii) Any other evidence that CMS deems relevant to its determination.
