
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 52b - NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH CONSTRUCTION GRANTS
##### ยง 52b.14 Other federal laws, regulations, executive orders, and policies that apply.
###### asknih@odrockml.od.nih.gov,http://www.nih.gov

(4) "NIH Grants Policy Statement." NIH Pub. No. 99-80 (Oct. 1998) (Note: To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Extramural Outreach and Information Resources Office (EOIRO), Office of Extramural Research, NIH, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 6208, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD 20892-7910 (telephone 301-435-0714; not a toll-free number). Information may also be obtained by contacting the EOIRO via its e-mail address () and by browsing the NIH Home Page site on the World Wide Web ().).

(5) "Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (1996). Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, Commission on Life Sciences, National Research Council (To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office for Protection from Research Risks, NIH, 6100 Executive Boulevard, Suite 3B01, MSC 7507, Rockville, MD 20852-7507 (telephone 301-496-7005; not a toll-free number).).

(6) "Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals." (Rev. Sept. 1986). Office for Protection from Research Risks, NIH (Note: To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office for Protection from Research Risks, NIH, 6100 Executive Boulevard, Suite 3B01, MSC 7507, Rockville, MD 20852-7507 (telephone 301-496-7005; not a toll-free number).).

(7) "Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories." DHHS Publication No. (CDC) 88-8395 (1993). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) (To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Division of Safety, Occupational Safety and Health Branch, NIH, 13 South Drive, Room 3K04, MSC 5760, Bethesda, MD 20892-5760 (telephone 301-496-2960; not a toll-free number).).

(8) "NIH Guidelines for the Laboratory Use of Chemical Carcinogens," DHHS Publication No. (NIH) 81-2385 (May 1981) (To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Division of Safety, Occupational Safety and Health Branch, NIH, 13 South Drive, Room 3K04, MSC 5760, Bethesda, MD 20892-5760 (telephone 301-496-2960; not a toll-free number).).
