
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.540 Deactivation of Medicare billing privileges.
####### Reasons for deactivation.

(a)CMS may deactivate the Medicare billing privileges of a provider or supplier for any of the following reasons:

(1) The provider or supplier does not submit any Medicare claims for 12 consecutive calendar months. The 12 month period will begin the 1st day of the 1st month without a claims submission through the last day of the 12th month without a submitted claim.

(2) The provider or supplier does not report a change to the information supplied on the enrollment application within the applicable time period required under this title.

(3) The provider or supplier does not furnish complete and accurate information and all supporting documentation within 90 calendar days of receipt of notification from CMS to submit an enrollment application and supporting documentation, or resubmit and certify to the accuracy of its enrollment information.

(4) The provider or supplier is not in compliance with all enrollment requirements in this title.

(5) The provider's or supplier's practice location is non-operational or otherwise invalid.

(6) The provider or supplier is deceased.

(7) The provider or supplier is voluntarily withdrawing from Medicare.

(8) The provider is the seller in an HHA change of ownership under ยง 424.550(b)(1).
