
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.540 Deactivation of Medicare billing privileges.
####### Effective dates.

(d)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the effective date of a deactivation is the date on which the deactivation is imposed under this section.

(ii) A retroactive deactivation effective date (based on the date that the provider's or supplier's action or non-compliance occurred or commenced (as applicable)) may be imposed in the following instances:

(A) For the deactivation reasons in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section, the effective date is the date on which the provider or supplier became non-compliant.

(B) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the effective date is the date on which the provider's or supplier's practice location became non-operational or otherwise invalid.

(C) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the effective date is the date of death of the provider or supplier.

(D) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the effective date is the date on which the provider or supplier voluntarily withdrew from Medicare.

(E) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, the effective date is the date of the sale.

(2) The effective date of a reactivation of billing privileges under this section is the date on which the Medicare contractor received the provider's or supplier's reactivation submission that was processed to approval by the Medicare contractor.
