
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 424 - CONDITIONS FOR MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart P - Requirements for Establishing and Maintaining Medicare Billing Privileges
###### ยง 424.546 Deactivation rebuttals.
####### Rebuttal requirements

(b). A rebuttal submitted pursuant to this section and ยง 424.545(b) must:

(1) Be in writing.

(2) Specify the facts or issues about which the provider or supplier disagrees with the deactivation's imposition and/or the effective date, and the reasons for disagreement.

(3) Submit all documentation the provider or supplier wants CMS to consider in its review of the deactivation.

(4) Be submitted in the form of a letter that is signed and dated by the individual supplier (if enrolled as an individual physician or nonphysician practitioner), the authorized official or delegated official (as those terms are defined in 42 CFR 424.502), or a legal representative (as defined in 42 CFR 498.10). If the legal representative is an attorney, the attorney must include a statement that he or she has the authority to represent the provider or supplier; this statement is sufficient to constitute notice of such authority. If the legal representative is not an attorney, the provider or supplier must file with CMS written notice of the appointment of a representative; this notice of appointment must be signed and dated by, as applicable, the individual supplier, the authorized official or delegated official, or a legal representative.
