
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures and Participation Agreement
###### § 425.200 Participation agreement with CMS.
####### Optional fourth year.

(e)(1) To qualify for a fourth performance year as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the ACO must meet all of the following conditions:

(i) The ACO's first agreement period in the Shared Savings Program under Track 1 began in 2014 or 2015.

(ii) Is currently participating in its first agreement period under Track 1.

(iii) Has requested renewal of its participation agreement in accordance with § 425.224.

(iv) Has selected a two-sided model (as described under § 425.606 or § 425.610 of this part) in its renewal request.

(v) Has requested an extension of its current agreement period and a 1-year deferral of the start of its second agreement period in a form and manner specified by CMS.

(vi) CMS approves the ACO's renewal, extension, and deferral requests.

(2) An ACO that is approved for renewal, extension, and deferral that terminates its participation agreement before the start of the first performance year of the second agreement period is-

(i) Considered to have terminated its participation agreement for the second agreement period under § 425.220; and

(ii) Not eligible to participate in the Shared Savings Program again until after the date on which the term of that second agreement period would have expired if the ACO had not terminated its participation, consistent with § 425.222.
