
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures and Participation Agreement
###### § 425.204 Content of the application.
####### Eligibility.

(c)(1) As part of its application, an ACO must certify that the ACO satisfies the requirements set forth in this part. Upon request, the ACO must submit the following supporting materials to demonstrate that it satisfies the requirements set forth in this part:

(i) Documents (for example, ACO participant agreements, agreements with ACO providers/suppliers, employment contracts, and operating policies) sufficient to describe the ACO participants' and ACO providers'/suppliers' rights and obligations in and representation by the ACO, and how the opportunity to receive shared savings or other financial arrangements will encourage ACO participants and ACO providers/suppliers to adhere to the quality assurance and improvement program and evidence-based clinical guidelines.

(ii) A description, or documents sufficient to describe, how the ACO will implement the required processes and patient-centeredness criteria under § 425.112, including descriptions of the remedial processes and penalties (including the potential for expulsion) that will apply if an ACO participant or an ACO provider/supplier fails to comply with and implement these processes.

(iii) Materials documenting the ACO's organization and management structure, including an organizational chart, a list of committees (including names of committee members) and their structures, and job descriptions for senior administrative and clinical leaders specifically noted in § 425.108 and § 425.112(a)(2).

(iv) Evidence that the governing body-

(A) Is an identifiable body;

(B) Represents a mechanism for shared governance for ACO participants;

(C) Is composed of representatives of its ACO participants; and

(D) Is at least 75 percent controlled by its ACO participants.

(v) Evidence that the governing body includes a Medicare beneficiary representative(s) served by the ACO who does not have a conflict of interest with the ACO, and who has no immediate family member with conflict of interest with the ACO.

(vi) A copy of the ACO's compliance plan or documentation describing the plan that will be put in place at the time the participation agreement with CMS becomes effective.

(2) Upon request, the ACO must provide copies of all documents effectuating the ACO's formation and operation, including, without limitation the following:

(i) Charters.

(ii) By-laws.

(iii) Articles of incorporation.

(iv) Partnership agreement.

(v) Joint venture agreement.

(vi) Management or asset purchase agreements.

(vii) Financial statements and records.

(viii) Resumes and other documentation required for leaders of the ACO.

(3) If an ACO requests an exception to the governing body requirement in § 425.106(c)(2) or (c)(3), the ACO must describe-

(i) Why it seeks to differ from the requirement; and

(ii) If seeking an exception to (c)(2), how the ACO will provide meaningful representation in ACO governance by Medicare beneficiaries.

(iii) If seeking an exception to the requirement at (c)(3), why the ACO is unable to meet the requirement and how it will involve ACO participants in innovative ways in ACO governance.

(4)(i) An ACO must certify that it is recognized as a legal entity in the State, Federal or Tribal area in which it was established and that it is authorized to conduct business in each State or Tribal area in which it operates.

(ii) An ACO formed among two or more ACO participants must provide evidence in its application that it is a legal entity separate from any of the ACO participants.

(5) The ACO must provide CMS with such information regarding its ACO participants and its ACO providers/suppliers participating in the program as is necessary to implement the program.

(i) The ACO must submit a list of all ACO participants and ACO providers/suppliers in accordance with § 425.118.

(ii) ACOs must also submit any other specific identifying information as required by CMS in the application process.

(iii) The ACO must certify the accuracy of this information.

(6) Upon request by CMS during the application cycle or at any point during an agreement period, the ACO must submit documents demonstrating that its ACO participants, ACO providers/suppliers, and other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to ACO activities are required to comply with the requirements of the Shared Savings Program. Upon such a request, the evidence to be submitted must include, without limitation, sample or form agreements and, in the case of ACO participant agreements, the first and signature page(s) of each executed ACO participant agreement. CMS may request all pages of an executed ACO participant agreement to confirm that it conforms to the sample form agreement submitted by the ACO. The ACO must certify that all of its ACO participant agreements comply with the requirements of this part.
