
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures and Participation Agreement
###### ยง 425.204 Content of the application.
####### 3

() CMS will notify the ACO in writing if the ACO may elect to decrease the amount of its repayment mechanism pursuant to this paragraph (f)(4)(iv)(B). The ACO must submit such election, together with revised repayment mechanism documentation, in a form and manner and by a deadline specified by CMS. CMS will review the revised repayment mechanism documentation and may reject the election if the repayment mechanism documentation does not comply with the requirements of this paragraph (f).

(v)(A) An ACO that established a repayment mechanism to support its participation in a two-sided model beginning on July 1, 2019, January 1, 2020, or January 1, 2021, may elect to decrease the amount of its repayment mechanism if the repayment mechanism amount for performance year 2022, as recalculated pursuant to paragraph (f)(4)(iii) of this section, is less than the existing repayment mechanism amount.

(B) CMS will notify the ACO in writing if the ACO may elect to decrease the amount of its repayment mechanism pursuant to this paragraph (f)(4)(v). The ACO must submit such election, and revised repayment mechanism documentation, in a form and manner and by a deadline specified by CMS. CMS will review the revised repayment mechanism documentation and may reject the election if the repayment mechanism documentation does not comply with the requirements of this paragraph (f).

(5) After the repayment mechanism has been used to repay any portion of shared losses owed to CMS, the ACO must replenish the amount of funds available through the repayment mechanism within 90 days. The resulting amount available through the repayment mechanism must be at least the amount specified by CMS in accordance with paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(6) The repayment mechanism must be in effect for the duration of the ACO's participation under a two-sided model plus 12 months following the conclusion of the agreement period, except as otherwise specified in this section.

(i) For an ACO that is establishing a new repayment mechanism to meet this requirement, the repayment mechanism must satisfy one of the following criteria:

(A) The repayment mechanism covers the entire duration of the ACO's participation under a two-sided risk model plus 12 months following the conclusion of the agreement period.

(B) The repayment mechanism covers a term of at least the first two performance years in which the ACO is participating under a two-sided model and provides for automatic, annual 12-month extensions of the repayment mechanism such that the repayment mechanism will eventually remain in effect for the duration of the agreement period plus 12 months following the conclusion of the agreement period.

(ii) For a renewing ACO, or a re-entering ACO that is the same legal entity as an ACO that previously participated in the program, that wishes to use its existing repayment mechanism to establish its ability to repay any shared losses incurred for performance years in the new agreement period, the existing repayment mechanism must be amended to meet one of the following criteria.

(A) The duration of the existing repayment mechanism is extended by an amount of time that covers the duration of the new agreement period plus 12 months following the conclusion of the new agreement period.

(B) The duration of the existing repayment mechanism is extended, if necessary, to cover a term of at least the first two performance years of the new agreement period and provides for automatic, annual 12-month extensions of the repayment mechanism such that the repayment mechanism will eventually remain in effect for the duration of the new agreement period plus 12 months following the conclusion of the new agreement period.

(iii) CMS may require the ACO to extend the duration of the repayment mechanism if necessary to ensure that the ACO fully repays CMS any shared losses for each of the performance years of the agreement period.

(iv) The repayment mechanism may be terminated at the earliest of the following conditions:

(A) The ACO has fully repaid CMS any shared losses owed for each of the performance years of the agreement period under a two-sided model.

(B) CMS has exhausted the amount reserved by the ACO's repayment mechanism and the arrangement does not need to be maintained to support the ACO's participation under the Shared Savings Program.

(C) CMS determines that the ACO does not owe any shared losses under the Shared Savings Program for any of the performance years of the agreement period.
