
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures and Participation Agreement
###### ยง 425.204 Content of the application.
####### Assurance of ability to repay.

(f)(1) An ACO must have the ability to repay all shared losses for which it may be liable under a two-sided model.

(2) An ACO that will participate in a two-sided model must establish one or more of the following repayment mechanisms in an amount and by a deadline specified by CMS in accordance with this section:

(i) An escrow account with an insured institution.

(ii) A surety bond from a company included on the U.S. Department of Treasury's List of Certified Companies.

(iii) A line of credit at an insured institution (as evidenced by a letter of credit that the Medicare program can draw upon).

(3) An ACO that will participate under a two-sided model of the Shared Savings Program must submit for CMS approval documentation that it is capable of repaying shared losses that it may incur during its agreement period, including details supporting the adequacy of the repayment mechanism.

(i) An ACO participating in Track 2 must demonstrate the adequacy of its repayment mechanism prior to any change in the terms and type of the repayment mechanism, and at such other times as requested by CMS.

(ii) An ACO entering an agreement period in Levels C, D, or E of the BASIC track or the ENHANCED track must demonstrate the adequacy of its repayment mechanism prior to the start of its agreement period, prior to any change in the terms and type of the repayment mechanism, and at such other times as requested by CMS.

(iii) An ACO entering an agreement period in Level A or Level B of the BASIC track must demonstrate the adequacy of its repayment mechanism prior to the start of any performance year in which it either elects to participate in, or is automatically transitioned to, a two-sided model, Level C, Level D, or Level E of the BASIC track, prior to any change in the terms and type of the repayment mechanism, and at such other times as requested by CMS.

(iv) An ACO that has submitted a request to renew its participation agreement must submit as part of the renewal request documentation demonstrating the adequacy of the repayment mechanism that could be used to repay any shared losses incurred for performance years in the next agreement period. The repayment mechanism applicable to the new agreement period may be the same repayment mechanism currently used by the ACO, provided that the ACO submits documentation establishing that the duration of the existing repayment mechanism has been revised to comply with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section, and the amount of the repayment mechanism complies with paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(v) As part of its application, a re-entering ACO must submit documentation demonstrating the adequacy of the repayment mechanism that could be used to repay any shared losses incurred for performance years in the next agreement period. The repayment mechanism applicable to the new agreement period may be the same repayment mechanism currently used by the re-entering ACO, provided that the ACO is the same legal entity as an ACO that previously participated in the program, and the ACO submits documentation establishing that the duration of the existing repayment mechanism has been revised to comply with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section and the amount of the repayment mechanism complies with paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(4) CMS calculates the amount of the repayment mechanism as follows:

(i) For a Track 2 ACO, the repayment mechanism amount must be equal to at least 1 percent of the total per capita Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service expenditures for the ACO's assigned beneficiaries, based on expenditures used to calculate the benchmark for the applicable agreement period, as estimated by CMS at the time of application.

(ii) For a BASIC track or ENHANCED track ACO, the repayment mechanism amount must be equal to the lesser of the following:

(A) One-half percent of the total per capita Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service expenditures for the ACO's assigned beneficiaries, based on expenditures and the number of assigned beneficiaries for the most recent calendar year for which 12 months of data are available.

(B) One percent of the total Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service revenue of its ACO participants, based on revenue for the most recent calendar year for which 12 months of data are available, and based on the ACO's number of assigned beneficiaries for the most recent calendar year for which 12 months of data are available.

(iii) CMS recalculates the ACO's repayment mechanism amount for the second and each subsequent performance year in the agreement period in accordance with paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section based on the certified ACO participant list for the relevant performance year, except that the number of assigned beneficiaries used in the calculations is the number of beneficiaries assigned to the ACO at the beginning of the relevant performance year under ยง 425.400(a)(2)(i) (for ACOs under preliminary prospective assignment with retrospective reconciliation) or ยง 425.400(a)(3)(i) (for ACOs under prospective assignment).

(A) If the recalculated repayment mechanism amount exceeds the existing repayment mechanism amount by at least $1,000,000, CMS notifies the ACO in writing that the amount of its repayment mechanism must be increased to the recalculated repayment mechanism amount.

(B) Within 90 days after receipt of such written notice from CMS, the ACO must submit for CMS approval documentation that the amount of its repayment mechanism has been increased to the amount specified by CMS.

(iv)(A) In the case of an ACO that has submitted a request to enter a new participation agreement for an agreement period starting on or after January 1, 2022 and is a renewing ACO or a re-entering ACO that is the same legal entity as an ACO that previously participated in the program: If the ACO wishes to use its existing repayment mechanism to establish its ability to repay any shared losses incurred for performance years in the new agreement period, the amount of the repayment mechanism must be equal to at least the amount calculated by CMS in accordance with paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section.

(B) Under the following circumstances, an ACO that renewed its participation agreement for an agreement period beginning on July 1, 2019, or January 1, 2020, may elect to decrease the amount of its repayment mechanism.
