
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Application Procedures and Participation Agreement
###### ยง 425.221 Close-out procedures and payment consequences of early termination.
####### Payment of shared losses.

(2)(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, for performance years beginning before July 1, 2019, an ACO under a two-sided model is not liable for any shared losses if its participation agreement is terminated effective before the last calendar day of a performance year.

(ii) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, for performance years beginning on July 1, 2019 and subsequent performance years, an ACO under a two-sided model is liable for a pro-rated share of any shared losses, as calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, if its participation agreement is terminated effective before the last calendar day of a performance year.

(A) An ACO under a two-sided model that terminates its participation agreement under ยง 425.220 with an effective date of termination after June 30th of a 12-month performance year is liable for a pro-rated share of any shared losses determined for the performance year during which the termination becomes effective.

(B) An ACO under a two-sided model whose participation agreement is terminated by CMS under ยง 425.218 is liable for a pro-rated share of any shared losses determined for the performance year during which the termination becomes effective.

(iii) The pro-rated share of losses described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is calculated as follows:

(A) In the case of a 12-month performance year, the shared losses incurred during the 12 months of the performance year are multiplied by the quotient equal to the number of months of participation in the program during the performance year, including the month in which the termination was effective, divided by 12.

(B) In the case of a 6-month performance year beginning July 1, 2019, the shared losses incurred during CY 2019 are multiplied by the quotient equal to the number of months of participation in the program during the performance year, including the month in which the termination was effective, divided by 12.
