
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Program Requirements and Beneficiary Protections
###### ยง 425.312 Beneficiary notifications.
####### Notifications to fee-for-service beneficiaries.

(a)(1) An ACO shall ensure that Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries are notified about all of the following in the manner set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

(i) That each ACO participant and its ACO providers/suppliers are participating in the Shared Savings Program.

(ii) The beneficiary's opportunity to decline claims data sharing under ยง 425.708.

(iii) Beginning July 1, 2019, the beneficiary's ability to, and the process by which, he or she may identify or change identification of the individual he or she designated for purposes of voluntary alignment (as described in ยง 425.402(e)).

(2) Notification of the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be carried out through the following methods:

(i) By an ACO participant posting signs in all of its facilities.

(ii) By an ACO participant making standardized written notices available upon request in all settings in which beneficiaries receive primary care services.

(iii) In the case of an ACO that has selected preliminary prospective assignment with retrospective reconciliation, by the ACO or ACO participant providing each fee-for-service beneficiary with a standardized written notice at least once during an agreement period in the form and manner specified by CMS. The standardized written notice must be furnished to all fee-for-service beneficiaries prior to or at the first primary care service visit during the first performance year in which the beneficiary receives a primary care service from an ACO participant.

(iv) In the case of an ACO that has selected prospective assignment, by the ACO or ACO participant providing each prospectively assigned beneficiary with a standardized written notice at least once during an agreement period in the form and manner specified by CMS. The standardized written notice must be furnished during the performance year for which the beneficiary is prospectively assigned to the ACO.

(v) Following the provision of the standardized written notice to a beneficiary, as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section, the ACO or ACO participant must provide a verbal or written follow-up communication to the beneficiary.

(A) The follow-up communication must occur no later than the earlier of the beneficiary's next primary care service visit or 180 days from the date the standardized written notice was provided.

(B) The ACO must retain a record of all beneficiaries receiving the follow-up communication, and the form and manner in which the communication was made available to the beneficiary. The ACO must make these records available to CMS upon request.
