
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### ยง 425.502 Calculating the ACO quality performance score for performance years (or a performance period) beginning on or before January 1, 2020.
####### Establishing a performance benchmark and minimum attainment level for measures.

(b)(1) CMS designates a performance benchmark and minimum attainment level for each measure, and establishes a point scale for the measures.

(2)(i) CMS will define the quality benchmarks using fee-for-service Medicare data.

(ii) CMS will set benchmarks using flat percentages when the 60th percentile is equal to or greater than 80.00 percent, or when the 90th percentile is equal to or greater than 95 percent.

(iii) CMS reserves the right to use flat percentages for other measures when CMS determines that fee-for-service Medicare data are unavailable, inadequate, or unreliable to set the quality benchmarks.

(3) The minimum attainment level for pay for performance measures is set at 30 percent or the 30th percentile of the performance benchmark. The minimum attainment level for pay for reporting measures is set at the level of complete and accurate reporting.

(4)(i) CMS will update the quality performance benchmarks every 2 years.

(ii) For newly introduced measures that transition to pay for performance in the second year of the 2-year benchmarking cycle, the benchmark will be established for that year and updated along with the other measures at the start of the next 2-year benchmarking cycle.

(iii) CMS will use up to three years of data, as available, to set the benchmark for each quality measure.
