
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### ยง 425.502 Calculating the ACO quality performance score for performance years (or a performance period) beginning on or before January 1, 2020.
####### Methodology for calculating the ACO's overall performance score.

(e)(1) CMS scores individual measures and determines the corresponding number of points that may be earned based on the ACO's performance.

(2) CMS adds the points earned for the individual measures within the domain and divides by the total points available for the domain to determine the domain score.

(3) Domains are weighted equally and scores averaged to determine the ACO's overall performance score and sharing rate.

(4)(i) ACOs that demonstrate quality improvement on established quality measures from year to year will be eligible for up to 4 bonus points per domain.

(ii) Bonus points are awarded based on an ACO's net improvement in measures within a domain, which is calculated by determining the total number of significantly improved measures and subtracting the total number of significantly declined measures.

(iii) Up to four bonus points are awarded based on a comparison of the ACO's net improvement in performance on the measures for the domain to the total number of individual measures in the domain.

(iv) When bonus points are added to points earned for the quality measures in the domain, the total points received for the domain may not exceed the maximum total points for the domain in the absence of the quality improvement measure.

(v) If an ACO renews its participation agreement for a subsequent agreement period, quality improvement will be measured based on a comparison between performance in the first year of the new agreement period and performance in the last year of the previous agreement period.

(vi) For performance year 2017 and subsequent performance years, if an ACO receives the mean Shared Savings Program ACO quality score based on the extreme and uncontrollable circumstances policies in paragraph (f) of this section, the ACO is not eligible for bonus points awarded based on quality improvement.

(vii) For performance year 2017 and subsequent performance years, if an ACO receives the mean Shared Savings Program ACO quality score under paragraph (f) of this section, in the next performance year for which the ACO receives a quality performance score based on its own quality reporting, quality improvement is measured based on a comparison between the performance in that year and the most recently available prior performance year in which the ACO reported quality.
