
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### ยง 425.502 Calculating the ACO quality performance score for performance years (or a performance period) beginning on or before January 1, 2020.
####### Establishing a quality performance standard.

(a)CMS designates the quality performance standard in each performance year. The quality performance standard is the overall standard the ACO must meet in order to be eligible for shared savings.

(1) For the first performance year of an ACO's first agreement period, CMS defines the quality performance standard at the level of complete and accurate reporting for all quality measures.

(2) During subsequent performance years of the ACO's first agreement period, the quality performance standard will be phased in such that the ACO must continue to report all measures but the ACO will be assessed on performance based on the quality performance benchmark and minimum attainment level of all measures.

(3) Under the quality performance standard for each performance year of an ACO's subsequent agreement period, the ACO must continue to report on all measures but the ACO will be assessed on performance based on the quality performance benchmark and minimum attainment level of all measures.

(4) A newly introduced measure is set at the level of complete and accurate reporting for the first two reporting periods, the measure is required. For subsequent reporting periods, the quality performance standard for the measure will be assessed according to the phase-in schedule for the measure.

(5) CMS reserves the right to redesignate a measure as pay for reporting when the measure owner determines the measure no longer aligns with clinical practice or causes patient harm, or when there is a determination under the Quality Payment Program that the measure has undergone a substantive change.
