
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### ยง 425.504 Incorporating reporting requirements related to the Physician Quality Reporting System Incentive and Payment Adjustment.
####### Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment for 2015.

(b)(1) ACOs, on behalf of eligible professionals who bill under the TIN of an ACO participant, must submit one of the ACO GPRO measures determined under ยง 425.500 using a CMS web interface, to satisfactorily report on behalf of their eligible professionals for purposes of the 2015 Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment under the Shared Savings Program.

(2)(i) Eligible professionals who bill under the TIN of an ACO participant within an ACO may only participate under their ACO participant TIN as a group practice under the Physician Quality Reporting System Group Practice Reporting Option of the Shared Savings Program for purposes of the 2015 Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment under the Shared Savings Program.

(ii) Under the Shared Savings Program, an ACO, on behalf of eligible professionals who bill under the TIN of an ACO participant, must satisfactorily report one of the measures determined under Subpart F of this part during the reporting period for a year, as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, according to the method of submission established by CMS under the Shared Savings Program for purposes of the 2015 Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment.

(3) If an ACO, on behalf of eligible professionals who bill under the TIN of an ACO participant, does not satisfactorily report for purposes of a 2015 Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment, each eligible professional who bills under the TIN of an ACO participant, will receive a payment adjustment, as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(4) ACO participant TINs and individual eligible professionals who bill under the TIN of an ACO participant cannot satisfactorily report for purposes of a 2015 Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment outside of the Medicare Shared Savings Program.

(5) For eligible professionals subject to the 2015 Physician Quality Reporting System payment adjustment under the Medicare Shared Savings Program, the Medicare Part B Physician Fee Schedule amount for covered professional services furnished during the program year is equal to the applicable percent of the Medicare Part B Physician Fee Schedule amount that would otherwise apply to such services under section 1848 of the Act.

(i) The applicable percent for 2015 is 98.5 percent.

(ii) The applicable percent for 2016 and subsequent years is 98.0 percent.

(6) The reporting period for a year is the calendar year from January 1 through December 31 that occurs 2 years prior to the program year in which the payment adjustment is applied.
