
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### § 425.512 Determining the ACO quality performance standard for performance years beginning on or after January 1, 2021.
####### Establishing a quality performance standard,Overall standard.

(a)-(1)The quality performance standard is the overall standard the ACO must meet in order to be eligible to receive shared savings for a performance year. An ACO will not qualify to share in savings in any year it fails to meet the quality performance standard.

(2) For the first performance year of an ACO's first agreement period under the Shared Savings Program. If the ACO reports data via the APP and meets the data completeness requirement at § 414.1340 of this subchapter and the case minimum requirement at § 414.1380 of this subchapter on the measures specified in this paragraph (a)(2) for the applicable performance year, the ACO will meet the quality performance standard.

(i) For performance years 2022, 2023, and 2024. The ten CMS Web Interface measures or the three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs, and the CAHPS for MIPS survey.

(ii) For performance year 2025 and subsequent performance years. The three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs and the CAHPS for MIPS survey.

(3) For performance year 2021. (i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, CMS designates the quality performance standard as the ACO reporting quality data via the APP established under § 414.1367 of this subchapter, according to the method of submission established by CMS and achieving a quality performance score that is equivalent to or higher than the 30th percentile across all MIPS Quality performance category scores, excluding entities/providers eligible for facility-based scoring.

(ii) If an ACO does not report any of the ten CMS Web Interface measures or any of the three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs and does not administer a CAHPS for MIPS survey under the APP, the ACO will not meet the quality performance standard.

(4) For performance years 2022 and 2023. (i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, CMS designates the quality performance standard as the ACO reporting quality data via the APP established under § 414.1367 of this subchapter according to the method of submission established by CMS and either:

(A) Achieving a health equity adjusted quality performance score that is equivalent to or higher than the 30th percentile across all MIPS Quality performance category scores, excluding entities/providers eligible for facility-based scoring, or

(B) If the ACO reports the three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs in the APP measure set, meeting the data completeness requirement at § 414.1340 of this subchapter and the case minimum requirement at § 414.1380 of this subchapter for all three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs, achieving a quality performance score equivalent to or higher than the 10th percentile of the performance benchmark on at least one of the four outcome measures in the APP measure set and a quality performance score equivalent to or higher than the 30th percentile of the performance benchmark on at least one of the remaining five measures in the APP measure set.

(ii) For performance year 2023, CMS designates an alternative quality performance standard for an ACO that does not meet the criteria described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(4)(i) of this section, but reports quality data via the APP established under § 414.1367 of this subchapter according to the method of submission established by CMS and achieves a quality performance score equivalent to or higher than the 10th percentile of the performance benchmark on at least one of the four outcome measures in the APP measure set.

(iii) If an ACO does not report any of the ten CMS Web Interface measures or any of the three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs and does not administer a CAHPS for MIPS survey under the APP, the ACO will not meet the quality performance standard or the alternative quality performance standard.

(5) For performance year 2024 and subsequent performance years.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, CMS designates the quality performance standard as the ACO reporting quality data via the APP established under § 414.1367 of this subchapter, according to the method of submission established by CMS and the following:

(A) For performance year 2024-
