
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### ยง 425.512 Determining the ACO quality performance standard for performance years beginning on or after January 1, 2021.
####### Calculation of ACO's health equity adjusted quality performance score for

(b)performance year 2023 and subsequent performance years.

(1) For an ACO that reports the three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs in the APP measure set, meeting the data completeness requirement at ยง 414.1340 of this subchapter for all three eCQMs/MIPS CQMs, and administers the CAHPS for MIPS survey, CMS calculates the ACO's health equity adjusted quality performance score as the sum of the ACO's MIPS Quality performance category score for all measures in the APP measure set and the ACO's health equity adjustment bonus points calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The sum of these values may not exceed 100 percent.

(2) CMS calculates the ACO's health equity adjustment bonus points as follows:

(i) For each measure in the APP measure set, CMS groups an ACO's performance into the top, middle, or bottom third of ACO measure performers by reporting mechanism.

(ii) CMS assigns values to the ACO for its performance on each measure as follows:

(A) Values of four, two, or zero for each measure for which the ACO's performance places it in the top, middle, or bottom third of ACO measure performers, respectively.

(B) Values of zero for each measure that CMS does not evaluate because the ACO does not meet the case minimum or the minimum sample size for the measure.

(iii) CMS sums the values assigned to the ACO according to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, to calculate the ACO's measure performance scaler.

(iv) CMS calculates an underserved multiplier for the ACO.

(A) CMS determines the proportion ranging from zero to one of the ACO's assigned beneficiary population for the performance year that is considered underserved based on the highest of -
