
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Quality Performance Standards and Reporting
###### ยง 425.506 Incorporating reporting requirements related to adoption of certified electronic health record technology.

(a) ACOs, ACO participants, and ACO providers/suppliers are encouraged to develop a robust EHR infrastructure.

(b) For performance years 2012 through 2018, as part of the quality performance score, the quality measure regarding EHR adoption will be measured based on a sliding scale.

(c) For performance years 2012 through 2018, performance on this measure will be weighted twice that of any other measure for scoring purposes and for determining compliance with quality performance requirements for domains.

(d) Through reporting period 2016, eligible professionals participating in an ACO under the Shared Savings Program satisfy the CQM reporting component of meaningful use for the Medicare EHR Incentive Program when the following occurs:

(1) The eligible professional extracts data necessary for the ACO to satisfy the quality reporting requirements under this subpart from certified EHR technology.

(2) The ACO reports the ACO GPRO measures through a CMS web interface.

(e) For 2017 and 2018, CMS will annually assess the degree of use of certified EHR technology by eligible clinicians billing through the TINs of ACO participants for purposes of meeting the CEHRT criterion necessary for Advanced Alternative Payment Models under the Quality Payment Program.

(1) During years in which the measure is designated as pay for reporting, in order to demonstrate complete and accurate reporting, at least one eligible clinician billing through the TIN of an ACO participant must meet the reporting requirements under the Advancing Clinical Information category under the Quality Payment Program.

(2) During years in which the measure is designated as pay for performance, the quality measure regarding EHR adoption will be measured based on a sliding scale.

(f) For performance years starting on January 1, 2019, and subsequent performance years, ACOs in a track that-

(1) Does not meet the financial risk standard to be an Advanced APM must certify annually that the percentage of eligible clinicians participating in the ACO that use CEHRT to document and communicate clinical care to their patients or other health care providers meets or exceeds 50 percent; or

(2) Meets the financial risk standard to be an Advanced APM must certify annually that the percentage of eligible clinicians participating in the ACO that use CEHRT to document and communicate clinical care to their patients or other health care providers meets or exceeds the threshold established under ยง 414.1415(a)(1)(i) of this chapter.
