
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### § 425.600 Selection of risk model.
####### 5

(ii) If the ACO is determined to be experienced with performance-based risk Medicare ACO initiatives, the ACO may enter under either the BASIC track Level E under paragraph (a)(4)(i)(A)() of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, or the ENHANCED track under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) Low revenue ACOs may participate under the BASIC track for a maximum of two agreement periods. A low revenue ACO may only participate in the BASIC track for a second agreement period if it satisfies either of the following:

(i) The ACO is the same legal entity as a current or previous ACO that previously entered into a participation agreement for participation in the BASIC track only one time.

(ii) For a new ACO identified as a re-entering ACO, the ACO in which the majority of the new ACO's participants were participating previously entered into a participation agreement for participation in the BASIC track only one time.

(e) For performance years beginning on or after July 1, 2019 and before January 1, 2024, CMS monitors low revenue ACOs identified as experienced with performance-based risk Medicare ACO initiatives, during an agreement period in the BASIC track, for changes in the revenue of ACO participants that would cause the ACO to be considered a high revenue ACO and ineligible for participation in the BASIC track. If the ACO meets the definition of a high revenue ACO (as specified in § 425.20)-

(1) The ACO is permitted to complete the remainder of its current performance year under the BASIC track, but is ineligible to continue participation in the BASIC track after the end of that performance year if it continues to meet the definition of a high revenue ACO; and

(2) CMS takes compliance action as specified in §§ 425.216 and 425.218, up to and including termination of the participation agreement, to ensure the ACO does not continue in the BASIC track for subsequent performance years of the agreement period if it continues to meet the definition of a high revenue ACO.

(f) For agreement periods beginning on July 1, 2019, and in subsequent years, CMS determines the agreement period an ACO is entering for purposes of applying program requirements that phase-in over multiple agreement periods, as follows:

(1) An ACO entering an initial agreement period is considered to be entering a first agreement period in the Shared Savings Program.

(2) A re-entering ACO is considered to be entering a new agreement period in the Shared Savings Program as follows-

(i) An ACO whose participation agreement expired without having been renewed re-enters the program under the next consecutive agreement period in the Shared Savings Program;

(ii) An ACO whose participation agreement was terminated under § 425.218 or § 425.220 re-enters the program at the start of the same agreement period in which it was participating at the time of termination from the Shared Savings Program, beginning with the first performance year of that agreement period; or

(iii) A new ACO identified as a re-entering ACO enters the program in an agreement period that is determined based on the prior participation of the ACO in which the majority of the new ACO's participants were participating.

(A) If the participation agreement of the ACO used in this determination expired without having been renewed or was terminated, the agreement period of the re-entering ACO is determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(B) If the ACO used in this determination is currently participating in the program, the new ACO is considered to be entering into the same agreement period as this currently participating ACO, beginning with the first performance year of that agreement period.

(3) A renewing ACO is considered to be entering the next consecutive agreement period in the Shared Savings Program.

(4) For purposes of this paragraph (f), program requirements that phase in over multiple agreement periods are as follows:

(i) The quality performance standard as described in § 425.502(a) or § 425.512(a), as applicable.

(ii) The weight used in calculating the regional adjustment to the ACO's historical benchmark as described in §§ 425.601(f), and 425.656(d).

(iii) The use of equal weights to weight each benchmark year as specified in §§ 425.601(e), and 425.652(c)(2).

(g) For agreement periods beginning on or after January 1, 2024, CMS determines an ACO's eligibility for the Shared Savings Program participation options specified in paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
