
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 52e - NATIONAL HEART, LUNG, AND BLOOD INSTITUTE GRANTS FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECTS
##### § 52e.6 How will NIH evaluate applications?

(a) Within the limits of funds available, after consultation with the Council, the Director may award grants to applicants with proposed projects which in the Director's judgment will best promote the purposes of section 419 of the Act, taking into consideration among other pertinent factors:

(1) The scientific and technical merit of the proposed project;

(2) The significance of the project in relation to the goals of the National Program;

(3) Whether the project appropriately emphasizes the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of heart, blood vessel, lung, or blood diseases of children;

(4) The qualifications and experience of the project director and other key personnel;

(5) The administrative and managerial capability and fiscal responsibility of the applicant;

(6) The reasonableness of the proposed budget in relation to the proposed project;

(7) The adequacy of the methods proposed for monitoring and evaluating the proposed project; and

(8) The degree to which the application adequately provides for the requirements set forth in §§ 52e.5(a) and 52e.5(b).

(b) The notice of grant award specifies how long HHS intends to support the project without requiring the project to recompete for funds. This period, called the project period, will usually be for 1-5 years.

(c) Generally, the grant will initially be for one year and subsequent continuation awards will also be for one year at a time. A grantee must submit a separate application to have the support continued for each subsequent year. Decisions regarding continuation awards and the funding level of such awards will be made after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices, and the availability of funds. In all cases, continuation awards require a determination by HHS that continued funding is in the best interest of the government.

(d) Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any grant commits or obligates the United States in any way to make any additional, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application.

(e) Any funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purposes for which the funds were granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms, and conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles prescribed in 45 CFR part 75, subpart E.
