
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.605 Calculation of shared savings and losses under the BASIC track.
####### Minimum savings or loss rate.

(b)(1) For ACOs under a one-sided model of the BASIC track's glide path, as specified under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, CMS uses a sliding scale, based on the number of beneficiaries assigned to the ACO under subpart E of this part, to establish the MSR for the ACO as follows:

(2) Prior to entering a two-sided model of the BASIC track, the ACO must select the MSR/MLR. For an ACO making this selection as part of an application for, or renewal of, participation in a two-sided model of the BASIC track, the selection applies for the duration of the agreement period under the BASIC track. For an ACO making this selection during an agreement period, as part of the application cycle prior to entering a two-sided model of the BASIC track, the selection applies for the remaining duration of the applicable agreement period under the BASIC track.

(i) The ACO must choose from the following options for establishing the MSR/MLR:

(A) Zero percent MSR/MLR.

(B) Symmetrical MSR/MLR in a 0.5 percent increment between 0.5 and 2.0 percent.

(C) Symmetrical MSR/MLR that varies, based on the number of beneficiaries assigned to the ACO under subpart E of this part. The MSR is the same as the MSR that would apply under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for an ACO under a one-sided model of the BASIC track's glide path, and is based on the number of assigned beneficiaries. The MLR under the BASIC track is equal to the negative MSR.

(ii) The ACO selects its MSR/MLR as part of one the following:

(A) Application for, or renewal of, program participation in a two-sided model of the BASIC track.

(B) Election to participate in a two-sided model of the BASIC track during an agreement period under ยง 425.226.

(C) Automatic transition from Level B to Level C of the BASIC track's glide path under ยง 425.600(a)(4)(i).
