
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.605 Calculation of shared savings and losses under the BASIC track.
####### Extreme and uncontrollable circumstances.

(f)The following adjustment is made in calculating the amount of shared losses, after the application of the shared loss rate and the loss recoupment limit.

(1) CMS determines the percentage of the ACO's performance year assigned beneficiary population affected by an extreme and uncontrollable circumstance.

(2) CMS reduces the amount of the ACO's shared losses by an amount determined by multiplying the shared losses by the percentage of the total months in the performance year affected by an extreme and uncontrollable circumstance, and the percentage of the ACO's assigned beneficiaries who reside in an area affected by an extreme and uncontrollable circumstance.

(i) For an ACO that is liable for a pro-rated share of losses under ยง 425.221(b)(2)(ii), the amount of shared losses determined for the performance year during which the termination becomes effective is adjusted according to this paragraph (f)(2).

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) CMS applies determinations made under the Quality Payment Program with respect to-

(i) Whether an extreme and uncontrollable circumstance has occurred; and

(ii) The affected areas.

(4) CMS has sole discretion to determine the time period during which an extreme and uncontrollable circumstance occurred and the percentage of the ACO's assigned beneficiaries residing in the affected areas.
