
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### § 425.609 Determining performance for 6-month performance years during CY 2019.
####### January 2019 through June 2019.

(b)For ACOs participating in a 6-month performance year from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019, under § 425.200(b)(2)(ii)(B) and for ACOs eligible for pro-rated shared savings or liable for pro-rated shared losses in accordance with § 425.221(b)(3)(i) for the performance period from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019, CMS reconciles the ACO for the period from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019, after the conclusion of CY 2019, based on the 12-month calendar year and pro-rates shared savings or shared losses to reflect the ACO's participation from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019. CMS does all of the following to determine financial and quality performance:

(1) Uses the ACO participant list in effect for the performance year beginning January 1, 2019, to determine beneficiary assignment, using claims for the entire calendar year, as specified in §§ 425.402 and 425.404, and according to the ACO's track as specified in § 425.400.

(i) For ACOs under preliminary prospective assignment with retrospective reconciliation the assignment window is CY 2019.

(ii) For ACOs under prospective assignment-

(A) Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries are prospectively assigned to the ACO based on the beneficiary's use of primary care services in the most recent 12 months for which data are available; and

(B) Beneficiaries remain prospectively assigned to the ACO at the end of CY 2019 if they do not meet any of the exclusion criteria under § 425.401(b) during the calendar year.

(2) Uses the ACO's quality performance for the 2019 reporting period to determine the ACO's quality performance score as specified in § 425.502.

(i) The ACO participant list finalized for the first performance year of the ACO's agreement period beginning on July 1, 2019, is used to determine the quality reporting samples for the 2019 reporting year for the following ACOs:

(A) An ACO that extends its participation agreement for a 6-month performance year from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019, under § 425.200(b)(2)(ii)(B), and enters a new agreement period beginning on July 1, 2019.

(B) An ACO that participates in the program for the first 6 months of a 12-month performance year during 2019 and is eligible for pro-rated shared savings or liable for pro-rated shared losses in accordance with § 425.221(b)(3)(i).

(ii) The ACO's latest certified ACO participant list is used to determine the quality reporting samples for the 2019 reporting year for an ACO that extends its participation agreement for the 6-month performance year from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019, under § 425.200(b)(2)(ii)(B), and does not enter a new agreement period beginning on July 1, 2019.

(3) Uses the methodology for calculating shared savings or shared losses applicable to the ACO under the terms of the participation agreement that was in effect on January 1, 2019.

(i) The ACO's historical benchmark is determined according to either § 425.602 (first agreement period) or § 425.603 (second agreement period) except as follows:

(A) The benchmark is adjusted for changes in severity and case mix between BY3 and CY 2019 using the methodology that accounts separately for newly and continuously assigned beneficiaries using prospective HCC risk scores and demographic factors as described under §§ 425.604(a)(1) through (3), 425.606(a)(1) through (3), and 425.610(a)(1) through (3).

(B) The benchmark is updated to CY 2019 according to the methodology described under § 425.602(b), § 425.603(b), or § 425.603(d), based on whether the ACO is in its first or second agreement period, and for an ACO in a second agreement period, the date on which that agreement period began.

(ii) The ACO's financial performance is determined based on the track the ACO is participating under during the performance year starting on January 1, 2019 (§ 425.604, § 425.606 or § 425.610), unless otherwise specified. In determining ACO financial performance, CMS does all of the following:

(A) Average per capita Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service expenditures for CY 2019 are calculated for the ACO's performance year assigned beneficiary population identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(B) Expenditures calculated in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section are compared to the ACO's updated benchmark determined according to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
