
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### § 425.608 Determining first year performance for ACOs beginning April 1 or July 1, 2012.

(a) For April 1 and July 1, 2012 starters, first year (defined as 21 and 18 months respectively) performance will be based on an optional interim payment calculation (based on the ACO's first 12 months of participation) and a final reconciliation at the end of the ACO's first performance year. Unless stated otherwise, for purposes of the interim payment calculation and first year reconciliation, the methodology under subpart E of this part for assigning beneficiaries and the methodology described in § 425.602 through § 425.606 for calculating shared savings and losses will apply, and quality performance will be assessed as described in subpart F of this part.

(b) In the interim payment calculation, based on the ACO's first 12 months of performance-

(1) CMS compares the first 12 months of per capita beneficiary expenditures to a historical benchmark updated for the period which includes the ACO's first 12 months of participation, taking into account changes in health status and demographics; and

(2) Quality performance is based on GPRO quality data reported for CY 2012.

(c)(1) The interim payment calculation is reconciled with the ACO's performance for its complete first performance year, defined as 21 months for April 1, 2012 starters and 18 months for July 1, 2012 starters.

(2) The first year reconciliation takes into account expenditures spanning the entire 21 or 18 months of the first performance year.

(3) First performance year expenditures are summed over beneficiaries assigned in two overlapping 12 month assignment windows.

(i) The first window will be the first 12 months used for interim payment calculation.

(ii) The second window will be CY2013.

(4) Expenditures for the first performance year are the sum of aggregate expenditure dollars accounting for the ACO's first 6 or 9 months of performance within CY 2012 for beneficiaries assigned for the interim payment calculation and aggregate dollars calculated for CY2013 for beneficiaries assigned for CY 2013.

(5) Adjustments for health status and demographic changes are performed as described in § 425.604 through § 425.606 with the following exceptions:

(i) Beneficiaries from the CY2013 assignment window are identified as continuously assigned or newly assigned relative to the previous calendar year.

(ii) The adjustment factor identified for purposes of the interim payment calculation is applied to the 6 months or 9 months of the ACO's first performance year that lie within CY2012.

(6) The updated benchmark, stated in aggregate dollars, is the sum of the interim updated benchmark for the average fraction of expenditures incurred in the latter 6 or 9 months of CY 2012 and an updated aggregate benchmark representing CY 2013.

(7) A savings percentage (based on a comparison of summed expenditures to summed updated benchmark dollars) for the ACO's 18 or 21 month performance year is compared to the ACO's MSR or MLR. The reconciled amount of the shared savings or losses owed to or by the ACO for the performance year is net of any interim payments of shared savings or losses.

(8) Quality performance for the first year reconciliation is based on complete and accurate reporting, of all required quality measures, for CYs 2012 and 2013.

(d) An ACO with a start date of April 1, 2012 or July 1, 2012 has the option to request an interim payment calculation based on quality and financial performance for its first 12 months of program participation. As required under § 425.204(f), the ACO requesting an interim payment calculation must have a mechanism in place to pay back the interim payment if final reconciliation determines an overpayment.

(e) Unless otherwise stated, program requirements which apply in the course of a performance year apply to the interim payment calculation and first year reconciliation.
