
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### § 425.610 Calculation of shared savings and losses under the ENHANCED track.
####### Continuously assigned beneficiaries.

(ii)(A) CMS uses demographic factors to adjust the benchmark for changes in the continuously assigned beneficiary population.

(B) If the prospective HCC risk score is lower in the performance year for this population, CMS adjusts the benchmark for changes in severity and case mix for this population using this lower prospective HCC risk score.

(2) Risk adjustment for ACOs in agreement periods beginning on July 1, 2019, and in subsequent years. CMS uses an ACO's prospective HCC risk score to adjust the benchmark for changes in severity and case mix in the assigned beneficiary population between BY3 and the performance year.

(i) For agreement periods beginning before January 1, 2024:

(A) Positive adjustments in prospective HCC risk scores are subject to a cap of 3 percent.

(B) This cap is the maximum increase in risk scores for each agreement period, such that any positive adjustment between BY3 and any performance year in the agreement period cannot be larger than 3 percent.

(ii) For agreement periods beginning on January 1, 2024, and in subsequent years:

(A) Positive adjustments in prospective HCC risk scores are subject to a cap equal to the ACO's aggregate growth in demographic risk scores between BY3 and the performance year (positive or negative) plus 3 percentage points.

(B) The cap described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section will apply to prospective HCC risk score growth for a population described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section only if the ACO's aggregate growth in prospective HCC risk scores between BY3 and the performance year across all of the populations described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section exceeds this cap. If the cap described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section is determined to apply, the value of the cap is the maximum increase in risk scores for the applicable performance year, such that any positive adjustment between BY3 and the performance year cannot be larger than the value of the cap for any of the populations described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(C) The aggregate growth in demographic risk scores for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and the aggregate growth in prospective HCC risk scores for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section is calculated by taking a weighted average of the growth in demographic risk scores or prospective HCC risk scores, as applicable, across the populations described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. When calculating the weighted average growth in demographic risk scores or prospective HCC risk scores, as applicable, the weight applied to the growth in risk scores (expressed as a ratio of the ACO's performance year risk score to the ACO's BY3 risk score) for each Medicare enrollment type is equal to the product of the historical benchmark expenditures for that enrollment type and the performance year person years for that enrollment type.

(3) In risk adjusting the benchmark as described in §§ 425.601(a)(10), 425.602(a)(9), 425.603(c)(10), and 425.652(a)(10) CMS makes separate adjustments for each of the following populations of beneficiaries:

(i) ESRD.

(ii) Disabled.

(iii) Aged/dual eligible Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.

(iv) Aged/non-dual eligible Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.

(4)(i) For performance years before 2017 to minimize variation from catastrophically large claims, CMS truncates an assigned beneficiary's total annual Parts A and B fee-for-service per capita expenditures at the 99th percentile of national Medicare fee-for-service expenditures as determined for each performance year.

(ii) For the 2017 performance year and subsequent performance years, to minimize variation from catastrophically large claims, CMS truncates an assigned beneficiary's total annual Parts A and B fee-for-service per capita expenditures at the 99th percentile of national Medicare fee-for-service expenditures as determined for the applicable performance year for assignable beneficiaries identified for the 12-month calendar year corresponding to the performance year.

(5) CMS uses a 3-month claims run out with a completion factor to calculate an ACO's per capita expenditures for each performance year.

(6) Calculations of the ACO's expenditures will include the payment amounts included in Part A and B fee-for-service claims.

(i) These calculations will exclude indirect medical education (IME) and disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments, and the supplemental payment for IHS/Tribal hospitals and Puerto Rico hospitals.

(ii) These calculations will take into consideration individually beneficiary identifiable payments made under a demonstration, pilot or time limited program.

(A) For performance years beginning before 2018, these calculations will take into consideration all individually beneficiary identifiable payments, including interim payments, made under a demonstration, pilot or time limited program.

(B) For performance year 2018 and subsequent performance years, these calculations will take into consideration individually beneficiary identifiable final payments made under a demonstration, pilot or time limited program.

(7) In order to qualify for a shared savings payment, the ACO's average per capita Medicare expenditures for the performance year must be below the applicable updated benchmark by at least the minimum savings rate established for the ACO under paragraph (b) of this section.
