
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.610 Calculation of shared savings and losses under the ENHANCED track.
####### Minimum savings or loss rate.

(b)(1) As part of the ACO's application for, or renewal of, program participation, the ACO must choose from the following options for establishing the MSR/MLR for the duration of the agreement period:

(i) Zero percent MSR/MLR

(ii) Symmetrical MSR/MLR in a 0.5 percent increment between 0.5-2.0 percent.

(iii) Symmetrical MSR/MLR that varies, based on the number of beneficiaries assigned to the ACO under subpart E of this part. The MSR for an ACO under the ENHANCED track is the same as the MSR that would apply in the one-sided model under either ยง 425.604(b) (for ACOs entering an agreement period on or before January 1, 2019) or ยง 425.605(b)(1) (for ACOs entering an agreement period on July 1, 2019, and in subsequent years) and is based on the number of assigned beneficiaries. The MLR under the ENHANCED track is equal to the negative MSR.

(2) To qualify for shared savings under the ENHANCED track, an ACO's average per capita Medicare expenditures for the performance year must be below its updated benchmark costs for the year by at least the MSR established for the ACO.

(3) To be responsible for sharing losses with the Medicare program, an ACO's average per capita Medicare expenditures for the performance year must be above its updated benchmark costs for the year by at least the MLR established for the ACO.
