
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.612 Waivers of payment rules or other Medicare requirements.
####### 3

() A beneficiary evaluation and admission plan approved by the ACO medical director and the healthcare professional responsible for the ACO's quality improvement and assurance processes under ยง 425.112.

(B) A list of SNFs with whom the ACO will partner along with executed written SNF affiliate agreements between the ACO and each listed SNF.

(ii) In order to be eligible to receive covered SNF services under the waiver, a beneficiary must meet the following requirements:

(A) In the case of a beneficiary who is assigned to an ACO that has selected preliminary prospective assignment with retrospective reconciliation under ยง 425.400(a)(2), the beneficiary must appear on the list of preliminarily prospectively assigned beneficiaries at the beginning of the performance year or on the first, second, or third quarterly preliminary prospective assignment list for the performance year in which they are admitted to the eligible SNF, and the SNF services must be provided after the beneficiary first appeared on the preliminary prospective assignment list for the performance year.

(B) In the case of a beneficiary who is assigned to an ACO that has selected prospective assignment under ยง 425.400(a)(3), the beneficiary must be prospectively assigned to the ACO for the performance year in which they are admitted to the eligible SNF.

(C) Does not reside in a SNF or other long-term care setting.

(D) Is medically stable.

(E) Does not require inpatient or further inpatient hospital evaluation or treatment.

(F) Have certain and confirmed diagnoses.

(G) Have an identified skilled nursing or rehabilitation need that cannot be provided as an outpatient.

(H) Have been evaluated and approved for admission to the SNF within 3 days prior to the SNF admission by an ACO provider/supplier who is a physician, consistent with the ACO's beneficiary evaluation and admission plan.

(iii) SNFs eligible to partner and enter into written agreements with ACOs for purposes of this waiver must do the following:

(A) Providers eligible to be included in the CMS 5-star Quality Rating System must have and maintain an overall rating of 3 or higher.

(B) Sign a SNF affiliate agreement with the ACO that includes elements determined by CMS including but not limited to the following:
