
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.613 Telehealth services.
####### General.

(a)Payment is available for otherwise covered telehealth services furnished on or after January 1, 2020, by a physician or other practitioner billing through the TIN of an ACO participant in an applicable ACO, without regard to the geographic requirements under section 1834(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Act, in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(1) For purposes of this section:

(i) An applicable ACO is an ACO that is participating under a two-sided model under ยง 425.600 and has elected prospective assignment under ยง 425.400(a)(3) for the performance year.

(ii) The home of the beneficiary is treated as an originating site under section 1834(m)(4)(C)(ii) of the Act.

(2) For payment to be made under this section, the following requirements must be met:

(i) The beneficiary is prospectively assigned to the ACO for the performance year in which the beneficiary received the telehealth service.

(ii) The physician or practitioner who furnishes the telehealth service must bill under the TIN of an ACO participant that is included on the certified ACO participant list under ยง 425.118 for the performance year in which the service is rendered.

(iii) The originating site must comply with applicable State licensing requirements.

(iv) When the originating site is the beneficiary's home, the telehealth services must not be inappropriate to furnish in the home setting. Services that are typically furnished in an inpatient setting may not be furnished as a telehealth service when the originating site is the beneficiary's home.

(v) CMS does not pay a facility fee when the originating site is the beneficiary's home.
