
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.630 Option to receive advance investment payments.
####### Recoupment and recovery of advance investment payments, and notice of bankruptcy.

(g)(1) CMS will recoup advance investment payments made to an ACO from any shared savings the ACO earns until CMS has recouped in full the amount of advance investment payments made to the ACO. For both renewing and re-entering ACOs, CMS will carry forward any remaining balance owed to subsequent performance year(s) in which the ACO achieves shared savings, including in any performance year(s) in a subsequent agreement period.

(2) If the amount of shared savings earned by the ACO is revised upward by CMS for any reason, CMS will reduce the redetermined amount of shared savings by the amount of advance investment payments made to the ACO as of the date of the redetermination. If the amount of shared savings earned by the ACO is revised downward by CMS for any reason, the ACO will not receive a refund of any portion of the advance investment payments previously recouped or otherwise repaid.

(3) Except as provided for in paragraphs (g)(4) of this section and ยง 425.316(e)(3), for each performance year, CMS will not recover an amount of advance investment payments greater than the shared savings earned by an ACO in that performance year.

(4) If an ACO terminates its participation agreement during the agreement period in which it received an advance investment payment, the ACO must repay all advance investment payments it received. CMS will provide written notification to the ACO of the amount due and the ACO must pay such amount no later than 90 days after the receipt of such notification.

(5) In the event of bankruptcy-

(i) If an ACO has filed a bankruptcy petition, whether voluntary or involuntary, the ACO must provide written notice of the bankruptcy to CMS and to the U.S. Attorney's Office in the district where the bankruptcy was filed, unless final payment for the agreement period has been made by either CMS or the ACO and all administrative or judicial review proceedings relating to any payments under the Shared Savings Program have been fully and finally resolved.

(ii) The notice of bankruptcy must be sent by certified mail no later than 5 days after the petition has been filed and must contain a copy of the filed bankruptcy petition (including its docket number). The notice to CMS must be addressed to the CMS Office of Financial Management at 7500 Security Boulevard, Mailstop C3-01-24, Baltimore, MD 21244 or such other address as may be specified on the CMS website for purposes of receiving such notices.
