
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.630 Option to receive advance investment payments.
####### Quarterly payment amount calculation methodology.

(2)CMS does all of the following in determining the quarterly payment amount prior to the start of the quarter.

(i) Determines the ACO's assigned beneficiary population. The assigned beneficiaries used in determining the quarterly payment amount are the beneficiaries most recently assigned to the ACO under ยง 425.400(a)(2) (for an ACO under preliminary prospective assignment with retrospective reconciliation) or ยง 425.400(a)(3) (for an ACO under prospective assignment), based on the certified ACO participant list for the relevant performance year.

(ii) Assigns each beneficiary a risk factors-based score. For each beneficiary in the assigned population identified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, CMS applies the following requirements in assigning a risk factors-based score:

(A) The risk factors-based score will be set to 100 if the beneficiary is enrolled in the Medicare Part D LIS or is dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid.

(B) The risk factors-based score will be set to the Area Deprivation Index national percentile rank matched to the beneficiary's mailing address if the beneficiary is not enrolled in the LIS or is not dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid and sufficient data is available to match the beneficiary to an Area Deprivation Index national percentile rank.

(C) The risk factors-based score will be set to 50 if the beneficiary is not enrolled in the LIS or is not dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid and sufficient data is not available to match the beneficiary to an Area Deprivation Index national percentile rank.

(iii) Determines a beneficiary's payment amount. For each beneficiary in the assigned population identified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, CMS determines the payment amount that corresponds to the beneficiary's risk factors-based score determined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. The beneficiary payment amount is as follows:

(iv) Calculates the ACO's quarterly payment amount. The ACO's quarterly payment amount is the sum of the beneficiary payment amounts corresponding to each assigned beneficiary's risk factors-based score, specified in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, capped at 10,000 beneficiaries. If the ACO has more than 10,000 assigned beneficiaries according to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, CMS will calculate the quarterly payment amount based on the 10,000 assigned beneficiaries with the highest risk factors-based scores determined according to paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
