
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.656 Calculating the regional adjustment to the historical benchmark.
####### Calculation of the adjustment.

(c)To calculate the adjustment, CMS does all of the following:

(1) Determines the difference between the average per capita amount of expenditures for the ACO's regional service area as specified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the average per capita amount of the ACO's historical benchmark determined under ยง 425.652(a)(1) through (7) and (c)(2), for each of the following populations of beneficiaries:

(i) ESRD.

(ii) Disabled.

(iii) Aged/dual eligible Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.

(iv) Aged/non-dual eligible Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.

(2) Applies a percentage, as determined in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) Caps the per capita dollar amount for each Medicare enrollment type (ESRD, disabled, aged/dual eligible Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, aged/non-dual eligible Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries) calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section at a dollar amount equal to a percentage of national per capita expenditures for Parts A and B services under the original Medicare fee-for-service program in BY3 for assignable beneficiaries in that enrollment type identified for the 12-month calendar year corresponding to BY3 using data from the CMS Office of the Actuary. The cap is applied as follows:

(i) For positive adjustments, the per capita dollar amount for a Medicare enrollment type is capped at 5 percent of the national per capita expenditure amount for the enrollment type for BY3.

(ii) For negative adjustments, the per capita dollar amount for a Medicare enrollment type is capped at negative 1.5 percent of the national per capita expenditure amount for the enrollment type for BY3.

(4) For negative adjustments, CMS will multiply the regional adjustments calculated in paragraphs (c)(2) or (3) of this section by 1 minus an offset factor equal to the sum of the following-

(i) Proportion of the ACO's BY3 assigned beneficiaries that are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid; and

(ii) The difference between the ACO's weighted average prospective HCC risk score for BY3 taken across the four Medicare enrollment types and 1. When calculating the weighted average prospective HCC risk score, the weight applied to the prospective HCC risk score for BY3 for each Medicare enrollment type is equal to the product of the BY3 per capita expenditures for that enrollment type and the BY3 person years for that enrollment type.

(5) The offset factor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section is subject to a minimum value of zero (representing no offset to the negative regional adjustment) and a maximum value of 1 (representing a full offset to the negative regional adjustment).
