
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 425 - MEDICARE SHARED SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Shared Savings and Losses
###### ยง 425.658 Calculating the prior savings adjustment to the historical benchmark.
####### Calculate average per capita savings amount.

(b)(1) Calculate total per capita savings or losses for each performance year during the 3 years prior to the start of the ACO's current agreement period. CMS applies the following requirements in determining the amount of per capita savings or losses for each performance year:

(i) Per capita savings or losses will be set to zero for a performance year if the ACO was not reconciled for the performance year.

(ii) If an ACO generated savings for a performance year but was not eligible to receive a shared savings payment for that year due to noncompliance with the requirements of this part, per capita savings for that year will be set to zero.

(iii) For a new ACO identified as re-entering ACO, per capita savings or losses will be determined based on the per capita savings or losses of the ACO in which the majority of the ACO's ACO participants were participating.

(2) Take the simple average of the per capita savings or losses calculated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, including values of zero, if applicable.

(3) Determine the ACO's eligibility for the prior savings adjustment as follows:

(i) If the average per capita amount computed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is less than or equal to zero, the ACO is not eligible to receive an adjustment for prior savings. The ACO will receive the regional adjustment to its benchmark as described in ยง 425.656.

(ii) If the average per capita amount computed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is positive, apply a proration factor to account for any upward growth in the ACO's assigned population in the benchmark years of the ACO's current agreement period as compared to the size of the assigned population when the ACO was reconciled for the corresponding performance years in its prior agreement period.
