
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 426 - REVIEW OF NATIONAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS AND LOCAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS
##### Subpart D - Review of an LCD
###### ยง 426.420 Retiring or revising an LCD under review.

(a) A contractor may retire an LCD or LCD provision under review before the date the ALJ issues a decision regarding that LCD. Retiring an LCD or LCD provision under review has the same effect as a decision under ยง 426.460(b).

(b) A contractor may revise an LCD under review to remove or amend the LCD provision listed in the complaint through the reconsideration process before the date the ALJ issues a decision regarding that LCD. Revising an LCD under review to remove the LCD provision in question has the same effect as a decision under ยง 426.460(b).

(c) A contractor must notify the ALJ within 48 hours of-

(1) Retiring an LCD or LCD provision that is under review; or

(2) Issuing a revised version of the LCD that is under review.

(d) If the contractor issues a revised LCD, the contractor forwards a copy of the revised LCD to the ALJ.

(e) The ALJ must take the following actions upon receiving a notice that the contractor has retired or revised an LCD under review:

(1) If, before the ALJ issues a decision, the ALJ receives notice that the contractor has retired the LCD or revised the LCD to completely remove the provision in question, the ALJ must dismiss the complaint and inform the aggrieved party(ies) who sought the review that he or she or they receive individual claim review without the retired/withdrawn provision(s).

(2) If, before the ALJ issues a decision, the ALJ receives notice that the contractor has revised the LCD provision in question but has not removed it altogether, the ALJ must continue the review based on the revised LCD. In this case, the contractor must send a copy of the supplemental record to the ALJ and all parties. In that circumstance, the ALJ permits the aggrieved party to respond to the revised LCD and supplemental record.
