
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 426 - REVIEW OF NATIONAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS AND LOCAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS
##### Subpart E - Review of an NCD
###### § 426.505 Authority of the Board.

(a) The Board conducts a fair and impartial hearing, avoids unnecessary delay, maintains order, and ensures that all proceedings are recorded.

(b) The Board defers only to reasonable findings of fact, reasonable interpretations of law, and reasonable applications of fact to law by the Secretary.

(c) The Board has the authority to do any of the following:

(1) Review complaints by an aggrieved party (or aggrieved parties).

(2) Dismiss complaints that fail to comply with § 426.500.

(3) Set and change the date, time, and place of a hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties.

(4) Continue or recess a hearing for a reasonable period of time.

(5) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding.

(6) Consult with scientific and clinical experts on its own motion, concerning clinical or scientific evidence.

(7) Set schedules for submission of exhibits and written reports of experts.

(8) Administer oaths and affirmations.

(9) Examine witnesses.

(10) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses at hearings as permitted by this part.

(11) Issue subpoenas requiring the production of existing documents before, and relating to, the hearing as permitted by this part.

(12) Rule on motions and other procedural matters.

(13) Stay the proceeding in accordance with § 426.340.

(14) Regulate the scope and timing of documentary discovery as permitted by this part.

(15) Regulate the course of a hearing and the conduct of representatives, parties, and witnesses.

(16) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence, as provided in this regulation.

(17) Take official notice of facts, upon motion of a party.

(18) Decide cases, upon the motion of a party, by summary judgment when there is no disputed issue of material fact.

(19) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing in person or, upon agreement of the parties, by telephone, picture-tel, or any other means.

(20) Issue decisions.

(21) Exclude a party from an NCD review for failure to comply with a Board order or procedural request without good cause.

(22) Stay the proceedings for a reasonable time when all parties voluntarily agree to mediation or negotiation, and provide mediation services upon request.

(d) The Board does not have authority to do any of the following under this part:

(1) Conduct an LCD review or conduct LCD hearings, except as provided by § 426.465.

(2) Conduct an NCD review or conduct NCD hearings on its own motion or on the motion of a nonaggrieved party.

(3) Issue a decision based on any new evidence without following § 426.340, regarding procedures for review of new evidence.

(4) Review any decisions by CMS to develop a new or revised NCD.

(5) Conduct a review of any draft NCDs, coverage decision memoranda, or withdrawn NCDs.

(6) Conduct a review of the merits of an unacceptable NCD complaint as discussed in § 426.510.

(7) Conduct an NCD review of any policy that is not an NCD, as defined in § 400.202 of this chapter.

(8) Allow participation by individuals or entities other than-

(i) The aggrieved party and/or his or her representative;

(ii) CMS and/or the contractor;

(iii) Experts called by the parties or Board; or
