
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 426 - REVIEW OF NATIONAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS AND LOCAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS
##### Subpart E - Review of an NCD
###### ยง 426.520 Withdrawing an NCD under review or issuing a revised or reconsidered NCD.

(a) CMS may withdraw an NCD or NCD provision under review before the date the Board issues a decision regarding that NCD. Withdrawing an NCD or NCD provision under review has the same effect as a decision under ยง 426.560(b).

(b) CMS may revise an NCD under review to remove or amend the NCD provision listed in the complaint through the reconsideration process before the date the Board issues a decision regarding that NCD. Revising an NCD under review to remove the NCD provision in question has the same effect as a decision under ยง 426.560(b).

(c) CMS must notify the Board within 48 hours of-

(1) Withdrawing an NCD or NCD provision that is under review; or

(2) Issuing a revised or reconsidered version of the NCD that is under review.

(d) If CMS issues a revised or reconsidered NCD, CMS forwards a copy of the revised/reconsidered NCD to the Board.

(e) The Board must take the following actions upon receiving a notice that CMS has withdrawn or revised/reconsidered an NCD under review:

(1) If, before the Board issues a decision, the Board receives notice that CMS has withdrawn the NCD or revised the NCD to completely remove the provision in question, the Board must dismiss the complaint and inform the aggrieved party (ies) who sought the review that he or she or they will receive individual claim review without the retired/withdrawn provisions.

(2) If, before the Board issues a decision, the Board receives notice that CMS has revised the NCD provision in question but has not removed it altogether, the Board must continue the review based on the revised NCD. In this case, CMS must send a copy of the supplemental record to the Board and all parties. In that circumstance, the Board permits the aggrieved party to respond to the revised NCD and the supplemental record.
