
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 426 - REVIEW OF NATIONAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS AND LOCAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS
##### Subpart E - Review of an NCD
###### § 426.544 Dismissals for cause.

(a) The Board may, at the request of any party, or on its own motion, dismiss a complaint if the aggrieved party fails to do either of the following:

(1) Attend or participate in a prehearing conference (the prehearing may be conducted by telephone) or hearing without good cause shown.

(2) Comply with a lawful order of the Board without cause shown.

(b) The Board must dismiss any complaint concerning NCD provision(s) if the following conditions exist:

(1) The Board does not have the authority to rule on that provision under § 426.505(d).

(2) The complaint is not timely. (See § 426.500(b)).

(3) The complaint is not filed by an aggrieved party.

(4) The complaint is filed by an individual who fails to provide an adequate statement of need for the service from the treating physician.

(5) The complaint challenges a provision or provisions of an LCD except as provided in § 426.476, regarding the Board's review of an ALJ decision. (See § 426.505, regarding the authority of the Board.)

(6) CMS notifies the Board that the NCD provision(s) is (are) no longer in effect.

(7) The aggrieved party withdraws the complaint. (See § 426.523, for requirements for withdrawing a complaint regarding an NCD under review.)
