
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 430 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - State Plans
###### ยง 430.25 Waivers of State plan requirements.
####### Effect of waivers.

(c)(1) Waivers under section 1915(b) allow a State to take the following actions:

(i) Implement a primary care case-management system or a specialty physician system.

(ii) Designate a locality to act as central broker in assisting Medicaid beneficiaries to choose among competing health care plans.

(iii) Share with beneficiaries (through provision of additional services) cost-savings made possible through the beneficiaries' use of more cost-effective medical care.

(iv) Limit beneficiaries' choice of providers (except in emergency situations and with respect to family planning services) to providers that fully meet reimbursement, quality, and utilization standards, which are established under the State plan and are consistent with access, quality, and efficient and economical furnishing of care.

(2) A waiver under section 1915(c) of the Act allows a State to include as "medical assistance" under its plan home and community based services furnished to beneficiaries who would otherwise need inpatient care that is furnished in a hospital, SNF, ICF, or ICF/IID, and is reimbursable under the State plan.

(3) A waiver under section 1916 (a)(3) or (b)(3) of the Act allows a State to impose a deduction, cost-sharing or similar charge of up to twice the "nominal charge" established under the plan for outpatient services, if-

(i) The outpatient services are received in a hospital emergency room but are not emergency services; and

(ii) The State has shown that Medicaid beneficiaries have actually available and accessible to them alternative services of nonemergency outpatient services.
