
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 430 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Grants; Reviews and Audits; Withholding for Failure To Comply; Deferral and Disallowance of Claims; Reduction of Federal Medicaid Payments
###### ยง 430.40 Deferral of claims for FFP.
####### Handling of documents and materials.

(c)(1) Within 60 days (or within 120 days if the State requests an extension) after receipt of the notice of deferral, the State must make available to the regional office, in readily reviewable form, all requested documents and materials except any that it identifies as not being available.

(2) Regional office staff usually initiates review within 30 days after receipt of the documents and materials.

(3) If the current Designee finds that the materials are not in readily reviewable form or that additional information is needed, he or she promptly notifies the State that it has 15 days to submit the readily reviewable or additional materials.

(4) If the State does not provide the necessary materials within 15 days, the current Designee disallows the claim.

(5) The current Designee has 90 days, after all documentation is available in readily reviewable form, to determine the allowability of the claim.

(6) If the current Designee cannot complete review of the material within 90 days, CMS pays the claim, subject to a later determination of allowability.
