
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 430 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Grants; Reviews and Audits; Withholding for Failure To Comply; Deferral and Disallowance of Claims; Reduction of Federal Medicaid Payments
###### ยง 430.42 Disallowance of claims for FFP.
####### Appeal of Disallowance.

(f)(1) The Departmental Appeals Board reviews disallowances of FFP under title XIX.

(2) A State that wishes to appeal a disallowance to the Board must:

(i) Submit a notice of appeal to the Board at the address given on the Departmental Appeals Board's web site within 60 days after receipt of the disallowance letter.

(A) If a reconsideration of a disallowance was requested, within 60 days after receipt of the reconsideration decision; or

(B) If reconsideration of a disallowance was requested and no written decision was issued, within 60 days from the date the decision on reconsideration of the disallowance was due to be issued by CMS.

(ii) Include all of the following:

(A) A copy of the disallowance letter.

(B) A statement of the amount in dispute.

(C) A brief statement of why the disallowance is wrong.

(3) The Board's decision of an appeal under paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall be the final decision of the Secretary and shall be subject to reconsideration by the Board only upon a motion by either party that alleges a clear error of fact or law and is filed during the 60-day period that begins on the date of the Board's decision or to judicial review in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.
