
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 430 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Grants; Reviews and Audits; Withholding for Failure To Comply; Deferral and Disallowance of Claims; Reduction of Federal Medicaid Payments
###### ยง 430.42 Disallowance of claims for FFP.
####### 4

() Additional information regarding factual matters or policy considerations.

(B) A copy of the written request to the Regional Office.

(C) Send all requests for reconsideration via registered or certified mail to establish the date the reconsideration was received by CMS.

(ii) In all cases, the State has the burden of documenting the allowability of its claims for FFP.

(iii) Additional information regarding the legal authority for the disallowance will not be reviewed in the reconsideration but may be presented in any appeal to the Departmental Appeals Board under paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(3) A State may request to retain the FFP during the reconsideration of the disallowance under section 1116(e) of the Act, in accordance with ยง 433.38 of this subchapter.

(4) The State is not required to request reconsideration before seeking review from the Departmental Appeals Board.

(5) The State may also seek reconsideration, and following the reconsideration decision, request a review from the Board.

(6) If the State elects reconsideration, the reconsideration process must be completed or withdrawn before requesting review by the Board.
