
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 430 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Grants; Reviews and Audits; Withholding for Failure To Comply; Deferral and Disallowance of Claims; Reduction of Federal Medicaid Payments
###### ยง 430.48 Repayment of Federal funds by installments.
####### Extended schedule.

(5)(i) For a State that initiated its repayment under an alternate payment schedule for economic distress, the repayment schedule may be extended beyond 12 quarterly installments if the total repayment amount exceeds 100 percent of the estimated State share of current annual expenditures;

(A) In these circumstances, paragraph (d)(3) of this section is followed for repayment of the amount equal to 100 percent of the estimated State share of current annual expenditures.

(B) The remaining amount of the repayment is in quarterly amounts equal to 8percent of the estimated State share of current annual expenditures until fully repaid.

(ii) Upon request by the State, the repayment schedule may be extended beyond 12 quarterly installments if the State has qualifying periods of economic distress in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section during the first 8 quarters of the alternate repayment schedule.

(A) To qualify for additional quarters, the States must demonstrate a period of economic distress in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section for at least 1 month of a quarter during the first 8 quarters of the alternate repayment schedule.

(B) For each quarter (of the first 8 quarters of the alternate payment schedule) identified as qualified period of economic distress, one quarter will be added to the remaining 4 quarters of the original 12 quarter repayment period.

(C) The total number of quarters in the alternate repayment schedule shall not exceed 20 quarters.
