
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 430 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Hearings on Conformity of State Medicaid Plans and Practice to Federal Requirements
###### ยง 430.80 Authority of the presiding officer.

(a) The presiding officer has the duty to conduct a fair hearing, to avoid delay, maintain order, and make a record of the proceedings. He or she has the authority necessary to accomplish those ends, including but not limited to authority to take the following actions:

(1) Change the date, time, and place of the hearing after due notice to the parties. This includes authority to postpone or adjourn the hearing in whole or in part. In a hearing on disapproval of a State plan, or State plan amendments, changes in the date of the hearing are subject to the time limits imposed by section 1116(a)(2) of the Act.

(2) Hold conferences to settle or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the issues.

(3) Regulate participation of parties and amici curiae and require parties and amici curiae to state their position with respect to the various issues in the proceeding.

(4) Administer oaths and affirmations.

(5) Rule on motions and other procedural items, including issuance of protective orders or other relief to a party against whom discovery is sought.

(6) Regulate the course of the hearing and conduct of counsel.

(7) Examine witnesses.

(8) Receive, rule on, exclude or limit evidence or discovery.

(9) Fix the time for filing motions, petitions, briefs, or other items.

(10) If the presiding officer is the Administrator, make a final decision.

(11) If the presiding officer is a designee of the Administrator, certify the entire record including recommended findings and proposed decision to the Administrator.

(12) Take any action authorized by the rules in this subpart or in conformance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551 through 559.

(b) The presiding officer does not have authority to compel by subpoena the production of witnesses, papers, or other evidence.

(c) If the presiding officer is a designee of the Administrator, his or her authority pertains to the issues of compliance by a State with Federal requirements, and does not extend to the question of whether, in case of any noncompliance, Federal payments will be denied in respect to the entire State plan or only for certain categories under, or parts of, the State plan affected by the noncompliance.
