
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 52i - NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON MINORITY HEALTH AND HEALTH DISPARITIES RESEARCH ENDOWMENT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 52i.13 Other HHS policies and regulations that apply.

Several other regulations and policies apply to grants under this part. These include, but are not limited to:

(a) 2 CFR part 376-HHS Nonprocurement debarment and suspension.

(b) 42 CFR part 50, subpart D-Public Health Service grant appeals procedure.

(c) 42 CFR part 93-Public Health Service policies on research misconduct.

(d) 45 CFR part 16-Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.

(e) 45 CFR part 46-Protection of human subjects.

(f) 45 CFR part 74-Uniform administrative requirements for awards and subawards to institutions of higher education, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations, and commercial organizations; and certain grants and agreements with states, local governments, and Indian tribal governments.

(g) 45 CFR part 80-Nondiscrimination under programs receiving federal assistance through the Department of Health and Human Services effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(h) 45 CFR part 81-Practice and procedure for hearings under part 80 of this chapter.

(i) 2 CFR part 382-Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance).

(j) 45 CFR part 84-Nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance.

(k) 45 CFR part 86-Nondiscrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance.

(l) 45 CFR part 91-Nondiscrimination on the basis of age in programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance from HHS.

(m) 45 CFR part 92-Uniform administrative requirements for grants and cooperative agreements to State, local, and tribal governments.

(n) 45 CFR part 93-New restrictions on lobbying.
