
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 431.55 Waiver of other Medicaid requirements.
####### General requirements.

(b)(1) General requirements for submittal of waiver requests, and the procedures that CMS follows for review and action on those requests are set forth in ยง 430.25 of this chapter.

(2) In applying for a waiver to implement an approvable project under paragraph (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section, a Medicaid agency must document in the waiver request and maintain data regarding:

(i) The cost-effectiveness of the project;

(ii) The effect of the project on the accessibility and quality of services;

(iii) The anticipated impact of the project on the State's Medicaid program and;

(iv) Assurances that the restrictions on free choice of providers do not apply to family planning services.

(3) No waiver under this section may be granted for a period longer than 2 years, unless the agency requests a continuation of the waiver.

(4) CMS monitors the implementation of waivers granted under this section to ensure that requirements for such waivers are being met.

(i) If monitoring demonstrates that the agency is not in compliance with the requirements for a waiver under this section, CMS gives the agency notice and opportunity for a hearing.

(ii) If, after a hearing, CMS finds an agency to be out of compliance with the requirements of a waiver, CMS terminates the waiver and gives the agency a specified date by which it must demonstrate that it meets the applicable requirements of section 1902 of the Act.

(5) The requirements of section 1902(s) of the Act, with regard to adjustments in payments for inpatient hospital services furnished to infants who have not attained age 1 and to children who have not attained age 6 and who receive these services in disproportionate share hospitals, may not be waived under a section 1915(b) waiver.
