
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 431.55 Waiver of other Medicaid requirements.
####### Waivers approved under section 1915(b)(1) of the Act,Basic rules.

(h)-(1)(i) An agency must submit, as part of it's waiver request, assurance that the entities described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section will be excluded from participation under an approved waiver.

(ii) FFP is available in payments to an entity that furnishes services under a section 1915(b)(1) waiver only if the agency excludes from participation any entity described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(2) Entities that must be excluded. The agency must exclude an entity that meets any of the following conditions:

(i) Could be excluded under section 1128(b)(8) of the Act as being controlled by a sanctioned individual.

(ii) Has a substantial contractual relationship (direct or indirect) with an individual convicted of certain crimes, as described in section 1128(b)(8)(B) of the Act.

(iii) Employs or contracts directly or indirectly with one of the following:

(A) Any individual or entity that, under section 1128 or section 1128A of the Act, is precluded from furnishing health care, utilization review, medical social services, or administrative services.

(B) Any entity described in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) Definitions. As used in this section, substantial contractual relationship means any contractual relationship that provides for one or more of the following services:

(i) The administration, management, or provision of medical services.

(ii) The establishment of policies, or the provision of operational support, for the administration, management, or provision of medical services.
