
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart G - Section 1115 Demonstrations
###### ยง 431.408 State public notice process.
####### Public notice and comment period.

(1)Prior to submitting an application to CMS for a new demonstration project or an extension of a previously approved demonstration project, the State must provide at least a 30-day public notice and comment period, and the public notice shall include all of the following information:

(i) A comprehensive description of the demonstration application or extension to be submitted to CMS that contains a sufficient level of detail to ensure meaningful input from the public, including:

(A) The program description, goals, and objectives to be implemented or extended under the demonstration project, including a description of the current or new beneficiaries who will be impacted by the demonstration.

(B) To the extent applicable, the proposed health care delivery system and the eligibility requirements, benefit coverage and cost sharing (premiums, co-payments, and deductibles) required of individuals that will be impacted by the demonstration, and how such provisions vary from the State's current program features.

(C) An estimate of the expected increase or decrease in annual enrollment, and in annual aggregate expenditures, including historic enrollment or budgetary data, if applicable. This includes a financial analysis of any changes to the demonstration requested by the State in its extension request.

(D) The hypothesis and evaluation parameters of the demonstration.

(E) The specific waiver and expenditure authorities that the State believes to be necessary to authorize the demonstration.

(ii) The locations and Internet address where copies of the demonstration application are available for public review and comment.

(iii) Postal and Internet email addresses where written comments may be sent and reviewed by the public, and the minimum 30-day time period in which comments will be accepted.

(iv) The location, date, and time of at least two public hearings convened by the State to seek public input on the demonstration application.
