
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart G - Section 1115 Demonstrations
###### ยง 431.412 Application procedures.
####### Demonstration application procedures.

(b)A State application for approval of a new demonstration project or an extension of an existing demonstration project must be submitted to CMS as both printed and electronic documents. Electronic documents must be submitted in a format that will be accessible to individuals with disabilities.

(1) Consistent with ยง 431.416(a) of this subpart, within 15 days of receipt of a complete application, CMS will send the State a written notice informing the State of receipt of the submitted application, the date in which the Secretary received the State's demonstration application and the start date of the 30-day Federal public notice process set forth in ยง 431.416 of this subpart. The written notice-

(i) Is provided for purposes of initiating the Federal-level public comment period and does not preclude a determination that, based on further review, further information is required to supplement or support the application, or that the application cannot be approved because a required element is missing or insufficient.

(ii) Does not prevent a State from modifying its application or submitting any supplementary information it determines necessary to support CMS' review of its application.

(2) Within 15 days of receipt of a demonstration application that CMS determines is incomplete, CMS will send the State a written notice of the elements missing from the application.

(3) CMS will publish on its Web site at regular intervals the status of all State submissions, including information received from the State while the State works with CMS to meet the demonstration application process set forth in this section.
