
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart G - Section 1115 Demonstrations
###### ยง 431.416 Federal public notice and approval process.
####### Exemption from the normal public notice process.

(g)(1) CMS may waive, in whole or in part, the Federal and State public notice procedures to expedite a decision on a proposed demonstration or demonstration extension request that addresses a natural disaster, public health emergency, or other sudden emergency threats to human lives.

(2) The Secretary may exempt a State from the normal public notice process or the required time constraints imposed in this section or ยง 431.408(a) of this subpart when the State demonstrates to CMS the existence of unforeseen circumstances resulting from a natural disaster, public health emergency, or other sudden emergency that directly threatens human lives that warrant an exception to the normal public notice process.

(i) The State is expected to discharge its basic responsibilities in submitting demonstration applications to the Secretary as required in ยง 431.412 of this subpart.

(ii) Such applications will be posted on the CMS Web site.

(3) A State must establish (or meet) all of the following criteria to obtain such an exemption from the normal public notice process requirements:

(i) The State acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner.

(ii) The circumstances constitute an emergency and could not have been reasonably foreseen.

(iii) Delay would undermine or compromise the purpose of the demonstration and be contrary to the interests of beneficiaries.

(4) CMS will publish on its Web site any disaster exemption determinations within 15 days of approval, as well as the revised timeline for public comment or post-award processes, if applicable.
