
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 53 - GRANTS, LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES FOR CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION OF HOSPITALS AND MEDICAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart L - Services for Persons Unable To Pay; Community Service; Nondiscrimination
###### ยง 53.111 Services for persons unable to pay.
####### Compliance reports.

(e)(1) Each applicant shall, not later than 120 days after the end of a fiscal year, unless a longer period is approved by the State agency for good cause shown, file with the State agency a copy of its annual statement for such year as required by section 646 of the Act and ยง 53.128(q), which shall set forth its operating costs.

(2) With respect to each fiscal year for which a level of uncompensated services has been established in accordance with this section, the annual statement shall also set forth the amount of uncompensated services provided in such year.

(i) The provision of a level of uncompensated services in such year which equals or exceeds the level established pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section for such year shall constitute compliance with the assurance.

(ii) If the level of services provided was less than the level of uncompensated services established pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, the applicant shall submit with such statement: A justification therefor, showing that the provision of such lower level of uncompensated services was reasonable under the circumstances; and a description of the steps it proposes to take to assure the availability and utilization of the level of uncompensated services to be established for the current fiscal year, which shall include an affirmative action plan, utilizing press releases or other appropriate means as the facility may desire to bring to the attention of the public the availability of such uncompensated services and the conditions of eligibility therefor.

(3) Each applicant shall file with its annual statement a copy of that portion of its adopted budget for the current fiscal year relating to the support of uncompensated services in such year. Such budget for uncompensated services shall be based on the operating costs of the applicant for the preceding fiscal year and shall give due cognizance to probable increases in operating costs. Except in the case of a certification pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if the budget statement does not conform to the presumptive compliance guideline, the applicant shall submit with its statement.

(i) A justification therefor, showing that such lower level of uncompensated services is reasonable under the circumstances, and

(ii) A plan to increase such uncompensated services to meet the presumptive compliance guideline or such other level of uncompensated services as may have been established or as it requests the State agency to establish in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.

(4) The applicant shall also submit such additional reports related to compliance with its assurance as the State agency may reasonably require.

(5) Pending the establishment of a level of uncompensated services for any fiscal year pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, the applicant shall, in such fiscal year, provide a level of services which is the higher of

(i) The level established for the preceding fiscal year (or if no such level has been established for such prior year, the level of services provided in such year) or

(ii) The level proposed in its adopted budget for the current fiscal year.
