
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart M - Relations With Other Agencies
###### § 431.625 Coordination of Medicaid with Medicare part B.
####### Exception.

(2)FFP is available in expenditures for Medicare Part B premiums for the following groups:

(i) Beneficiaries required to be covered under §§ 435.134, and 436.112 of this subchapter, those eligible for continued Medicaid coverage despite increased income from monthly insurance benefits under title II of the Act;

(ii) Beneficiaries required to be covered under § 435.135 of this subchapter, those eligible for continued Medicaid coverage despite increased income from cost-of-living increases under title II of the Act;

(iii) Beneficiaries whom States must consider to be recipients of AFDC, including those who receive adoption assistance, foster care or guardianship care, under part E of title IV of the Act, in accordance with §§ 435.145 and 436.114(e) of this subchapter, or who receive Medicaid coverage for low income families, in accordance with section 1931(b) of the Act.

(iv) Individuals required to be covered under § 435.120 of this subchapter, that is, blind or disabled individuals who, under section 1619(b) of the Act, are considered to be receiving SSI;

(v) Certain beneficiaries of Veterans Administration pensions during the limited time they are, under section 310(b) of Pub. L. 96-272, considered as receiving SSI, mandatory State supplements, or AFDC;

(vi) Disabled children living at home to whom the State provides Medicaid under § 435.225 of this subchapter.

(vii) Beneficiaries required to be covered under §§ 435.115 and 436.114(f) and (h) of this subchapter, that is, those who remain eligible for 4 months of temporary Medicaid coverage because of the increased collection of spousal support under part D of title IV of the Act.

(viii) Individuals required to be covered under the QMB, SLMB, and QI eligibility groups, each separately defined in §§ 435.123 through 435.125 of this subchapter.

(ix) Adult children with disabilities, as described in 1634(c) of the Act.

(3) No FFP is available in State Medicaid expenditures that could have been paid for under Medicare Part B but were not because the person was not enrolled in Part B. This limit applies to all beneficiaries eligible for enrollment under Part B, whether individually or through an agreement under section 1843(a) of the Act. However, FFP is available in expenditures required by §§ 435.914 and 436.901 of this subchapter for retroactive coverage of beneficiaries.
