
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart P - Quality Control
###### Medicaid Eligibility Quality Control (MEQC) Program
####### ยง 431.812 Review procedures.
######## Active case reviews.

(b)(1) The State must review all active cases selected from the universe of cases, as established in the State's approved MEQC pilot planning document, under ยง 431.814 to determine if the cases were eligible for services, as well as to identify deficiencies in processing subject to corrective actions.

(2) The State must select and review, at a minimum, 400 active cases in total from the Medicaid and CHIP universe.

(i) The State must review at least 200 Medicaid cases.

(ii) The State will identify in the pilot planning document at ยง 431.814 the sample size per program.

(iii) The State may sample more than 400 cases.

(3) The State may propose to focus the active case reviews on recent changes to eligibility policies and processes, areas where the state suspects vulnerabilities, or proven error prone areas.

(i) Unless otherwise directed by CMS, the State must propose its active case review approach in the pilot planning document described at ยง 431.814 or perform a comprehensive review.

(ii) When the State has a PERM eligibility improper payment rate that exceeds the 3 percent national standard for two consecutive PERM cycles, the State must follow CMS direction for its active case reviews. CMS guidance will be provided to any state meeting this criteria.
