
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart Q - Requirements for Estimating Improper Payments in Medicaid and CHIP
###### ยง 431.960 Types of payment errors.
####### Eligibility errors.

(d)(1) An eligibility error is an error resulting in an overpayment or underpayment that is determined from a review of a beneficiary's eligibility determination, in comparison to the documentation used to establish a beneficiary's eligibility and applicable federal and state regulations and policies, resulting in Federal and/or State improper payments.

(2) Eligibility errors include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Ineligible individual, but authorized as eligible when he or she received services.

(ii) Eligible individual for the program, but was ineligible for certain services he or she received.

(iii) Lacked or had insufficient documentation in his or her case record, in accordance with the State's documented policies and procedures, to make a definitive review decision of eligibility or ineligibility.

(iv) Was ineligible for managed care but enrolled in managed care.

(3) The dollars paid in error due to an eligibility error is the measure of the payment error.

(4) A State eligibility error does not result from the State's verification of an applicant's self-declaration or self-certification of eligibility for, and the correct amount of, medical assistance or child health assistance, if the State process for verifying an applicant's self-declaration or self-certification satisfies the requirements in Federal law or guidance, or, if applicable, has the Secretary's approval.
