
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart Q - Requirements for Estimating Improper Payments in Medicaid and CHIP
###### ยง 431.960 Types of payment errors.
####### Medical review errors.

(c)(1) A medical review error is an error resulting in an overpayment or underpayment that is determined from a review of the provider's medical record or other documentation supporting the service(s) claimed, Code of Federal Regulations that are applicable to conditions of payment, the State's written policies, and a comparison between the documentation and written policies and the information presented on the claim resulting in Federal and/or State improper payments.

(2) The difference in payment between what the State paid (as adjusted within improper payment measurement guidelines) and what the State should have paid, in accordance with the applicable conditions of payment per 42 CFR parts 440 through 484, this part (431), and in accordance with the State's documented policies, is the dollar measure of the payment error.

(3) Medical review errors include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Lack of documentation.

(ii) Insufficient documentation.

(iii) Procedure coding errors.

(iv) Diagnosis coding errors.

(v) Unbundling.

(vi) Number of unit errors.

(vii) Medically unnecessary services.

(viii) Policy violations.

(ix) Administrative errors.
