
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart Q - Requirements for Estimating Improper Payments in Medicaid and CHIP
###### ยง 431.998 Difference resolution and appeal process.

(a) The State may file, in writing, a request with the relevant Federal contractor to resolve differences in the Federal contractor's findings based on medical, data processing, or eligibility reviews in Medicaid or CHIP.

(b) The State must file requests to resolve differences based on the medical, data processing, or eligibility reviews within 25 business days after the report of review findings is shared with the State.

(c) To file a difference resolution request, the State must be able to demonstrate all of the following:

(1) Have a factual basis for filing the request.

(2) Provide the appropriate Federal contractor with valid evidence directly related to the finding(s) to support the State's position.

(d) For a finding in which the State and the Federal contractor cannot resolve the difference in findings, the State may appeal to CMS for final resolution by filing an appeal within 15 business days from the date the relevant Federal contractor's finding as a result of the difference resolution is shared with the State. There is no minimum dollar threshold required to appeal a difference in findings.

(e) To file an appeal request, the State must be able to demonstrate all of the following:

(1) Have a factual basis for filing the request.

(2) Provide CMS with valid evidence directly related to the finding(s) to support the State's position.

(f) All differences, including those pending in CMS for final decision that are not overturned in time for improper payment rate calculation, will be considered as errors in the improper payment rate calculation in order to meet the reporting requirements of the IPIA.
