
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 431 - STATE ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart Q - Requirements for Estimating Improper Payments in Medicaid and CHIP
###### ยง 431.1010 Disallowance of Federal financial participation for erroneous State payments (for PERM review years ending after July 1, 2020).
####### Purpose.

(a)(1) This section establishes rules and procedures for disallowing Federal financial participation (FFP) in erroneous medical assistance payments due to eligibility improper payment errors, as detected through the PERM program required under this subpart, in effect on and after July 1, 2020.

(2) After the State's eligibility improper rate has been established for each PERM review period, CMS will compute the amount of the disallowance, removing any underpayments due to eligibility errors, and adjust the FFP payable to each State. The disallowance or withholding is only applicable to the State's PERM year.

(3) CMS will compute the amount to be withheld or disallowed as follows:

(i) Subtract the 3 percent allowable threshold from the lower limit of the State's eligibility improper payment rate percentage excluding underpayments.

(ii) If the difference is greater than zero, the Federal medical assistance funds for the period, are multiplied by that percentage. This product is the amount of the disallowance or withholding.
