
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 432 - STATE PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart C - Staffing and Training Expenditures
###### ยง 432.50 FFP: Staffing and training costs.
####### Other limitations for FFP rate for skilled professional medical personnel and directly supporting staff,Medicaid agency personnel and staff.

(d)-(1)The rate of 75 percent FFP is available for skilled professional medical personnel and directly supporting staff of the Medicaid agency if the following criteria, as applicable, are met:

(i) The expenditures are for activities that are directly related to the administration of the Medicaid program, and as such do not include expenditures for medical assistance;

(ii) The skilled professional medical personnel have professional education and training in the field of medical care or appropriate medical practice. "Professional education and training" means the completion of a 2-year or longer program leading to an academic degree or certificate in a medically related profession. This is demonstrated by possession of a medical license, certificate, or other document issued by a recognized National or State medical licensure or certifying organization or a degree in a medical field issued by a college or university certified by a professional medical organization. Experience in the administration, direction, or implementation of the Medicaid program is not considered the equivalent of professional training in a field of medical care.

(iii) The skilled professional medical personnel are in positions that have duties and responsibilities that require those professional medical knowledge and skills.

(iv) A State-documented employer-employee relationship exists between the Medicaid agency and the skilled professional medical personnel and directly supporting staff; and

(v) The directly supporting staff are secretarial, stenographic, and copying personnel and file and records clerks who provide clerical services that are directly necessary for the completion of the professional medical responsibilities and functions of the skilled professional medical staff. The skilled professional medical staff must directly supervise the supporting staff and the performance of the supporting staff's work.
