
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 432 - STATE PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart C - Staffing and Training Expenditures
###### ยง 432.55 Reporting training and administrative costs.
####### Activities and costs to be reported on training expenditures.

(b)(1) For fulltime training (with no assigned agency duties): Salaries, fringe benefits, dependency allowances, travel, tuition, books, and educational supplies.

(2) For part-time training: Travel, per diem, tuition, books and educational supplies.

(3) For State and local Medicaid agency staff development personnel (including supporting staff) assigned fulltime training functions: Salaries, fringe benefits, travel, and per diem. Costs for staff spending less than full time on training for the Medicaid program must be allocated between training and administration in accordance with ยง 433.34 of this subchapter.

(4) For experts engaged to develop or conduct special programs: Salary, fringe benefits, travel, and per diem.

(5) For agency training activities directly related to the program: Use of space, postage, teaching supplies, and purchase or development of teaching materials and equipment, for example, books and audiovisual aids.

(6) For field instruction in Medicaid: Instructors' salaries and fringe benefits, rental of space, travel, clerical assistance, teaching materials and equipment such as books and audiovisual aids.
