
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart A - Federal Matching and General Administration Provisions
###### ยง 433.10 Rates of FFP for program services.
####### Special provisions.

(c)(1) Under section 1903(a)(5) of the Act, the Federal share of State expenditures for family planning services is 90 percent.

(2) Under section 1905(b), the Federal share of State expenditures for services provided through Indian Health Service facilities is 100 percent.

(3) Under section 1903(g), the FMAP is reduced if the State does not have an effective program to control use of institutional services.

(4) Under section 1905(b) of the Social Security Act, the Federal share of State expenditures described in ยง 433.11(a) for services provided to children, is the enhanced FMAP rate determined in accordance with ยง 457.622(b) of this chapter, subject to the conditions explained in ยง 433.11(b).

(5)(i) Under section 1933(d) of the Act, the Federal share of State expenditures for Medicare Part B premiums described in section 1905(p)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act on behalf of Qualifying Individuals described in section 1902(a)(10)(E)(iv) of the Act, is 100 percent, to the extent that the assistance does not exceed the State's allocation under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section. To the extent that the assistance exceeds that allocation, the Federal share is 0 percent.

(ii) Under section 1933(c)(2) of the Act and subject to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, the allocation to each State is equal to the total allocation specified in section 1933(g) of the Act multiplied by the Secretary's estimate of the ratio of the total number of individuals described in section 1902(a)(10)(E)(iv) of the Act in the State to the total number of individuals described in section 1902(a)(10)(E)(iv) of the Act for all eligible States. In estimating that ratio, the Secretary will use data from the U.S. Census Bureau.

(iii) If, based on projected expenditures for a fiscal year, or for a shorter period for which funding is available under section 1933 of the Act, the Secretary determines that the expenditures described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section for one or more States are projected to exceed the allocation made to the State, the Secretary may adjust each State's fiscal year allocation, as follows:

(A) The Secretary will compare each State's projected total expenditures for the expenses described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section to the State's initial allocation determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, to determine the extent of each State's projected surplus or deficit.

(B) The surplus of each State with a projected surplus, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(A) of this section will be added together to arrive at the Total Projected Surplus.

(C) The deficit of each State with a projected deficit, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(A) of this section will be added together to arrive at the Total Projected Deficit.

(D) Each State with a projected deficit will receive an additional allocation equal to the amount of its projected deficit, or a prorated amount of such deficit, if the Total Projected Deficit is greater than the Total Projected Surplus. Except as described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(E) of this section, the amount to be reallocated from each State with a projected surplus will be equal to A x B, where A equals the Total Projected Deficit and B equals the amount of the State's projected surplus as a percentage of the Total Projected Surplus.

(E) If the Total Projected Deficit determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(C) of this section is greater than the Total Projected Surplus determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, each State with a projected deficit will receive an additional allocation amount equal to the amount of the Total Projected Surplus multiplied by the amount of the projected deficit for such State as a percentage of the Total Projected Deficit. The amount to be reallocated from each State with a projected surplus will be equal to the amount of the projected surplus.

(iv) CMS will notify States of any changes in allotments resulting from any reallocations.

(v) The provisions in paragraph (c)(5) of this section will be in effect through the end of the period for which funding authority is available under section 1933 of the Act.
