
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart A - Federal Matching and General Administration Provisions
###### § 433.15 Rates of FFP for administration.
####### Activities and rates.

(b)(1) [Reserved]

(2) Administration of family planning services: 90 percent. (Section 1903 (a)(5); 42 CFR 432.50(b)(5).)

(3) Design, development, or installation of mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systems: 90 percent. (Section 1903(a)(3)(A)(i); 42 CFR part 433, subpart C, and § 432.50 (b)(3).)

(4) Operation of mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systems: 75 percent. (Section 1903(a) (3)(B); 42 CFR part 433, subpart C and § 432.50(b)(2).)

(5) Compensation and training of skilled professional medical personnel and staff directly supporting those personnel if the criteria specified in § 432.50 (c) and (d) are met: 75 percent. (Section 1903(a)(2); 42 CFR 432.50(b)(1).)

(6)(i) Funds expended for the performance of medical and utilization review by a QIO under a contract entered into under section 1902(d) of the Act: 75 percent (section 1903(a)(3)(C) of the Act).

(ii) If a State contracts for medical and utilization review with any individual or organization not designated under Part B of Title XI of the Act, funds expended for such review will be reimbursed as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(7) All other activities the Secretary finds necessary for proper and efficient administration of the State plan: 50 percent. (Section 1903(a)(7).) (See also § 455.300 of this subchapter for FFP at 90 percent for State Medicaid fraud control units under section 1903(a)(6).)

(8) Nurse aide training and competency evaluation programs and competency evaluation programs described in 1919(e)(1) of the Act: for calendar quarters beginning on or after July 1, 1988 and before July 1, 1990: The lesser of 90% or the Federal medical assistance percentage plus 25 percentage points; for calendar quarters beginning on or after October 1, 1990: 50%. (Section 1903(a)(2)(B) of the Act.)

(9) Preadmission screening and annual resident review (PASARR) activities conducted by the State: 75 percent. (Sections 1903(a)(2)(C) and 1919(e)(7); 42 CFR part 483, subparts C and E.)

(10) Funds expended for the performance of external quality review or the related activities described in § 438.358 of this chapter consistent with § 438.370(a) of this chapter: 75 percent; consistent with § 438.370(b): 50 percent.
