
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart A - Federal Matching and General Administration Provisions
###### ยง 433.38 Interest charge on disallowed claims for FFP.
####### General principles.

(b)(1) CMS will charge the State interest on FFP when-

(i) CMS has notified the Medicaid agency under ยง 430.42 of this subpart that a State's claim for FFP is not allowable;

(ii) The agency has requested a reconsideration of the disallowance to the Administrator under ยง 430.42 of this chapter and has chosen to retain the FFP during the administrative reconsideration process in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section;

(iii)(A) CMS has made a final determination upholding part or all of the disallowance;

(B) The agency has withdrawn its request for administrative reconsideration on all or part of the disallowance; or

(C) The agency has reversed its decision to retain the funds without withdrawing its request for administrative reconsideration and CMS upholds all or part of the disallowance.

(iv) The agency has appealed the disallowance to the Departmental Appeals Board under 45 CFR part 16 and has chosen to retain the FFP during the administrative appeals process in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(v)(A)The Board has made a final determination upholding part or all of the disallowance;

(B) The agency has withdrawn its appeal on all or part of the disallowance; or

(C) The agency has reversed its decision to retain the funds without withdrawing its appeal and the Board upholds all or part of the disallowance.

(2) If the courts overturn, in whole or in part, a Board decision that has sustained a disallowance, CMS will return the principal and the interest collected on the funds that were disallowed, upon the completion of all judicial appeals.

(3) Unless an agency decides to withdraw its request for administrative reconsideration or appeal on part of the disallowance and therefore returns only that part of the funds on which it has withdrawn its request for administrative reconsideration or appeal, any decision to retain or return disallowed funds must apply to the entire amount in dispute.

(4) If the agency elects to have CMS recover the disputed amount, it may not reverse that election.
