
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Requirements State Financial Participation
###### ยง 433.68 Permissible health care-related taxes.
####### Waiver of broad-based requirement only.

(1)This test is applied on a per class basis to a tax that is imposed on all revenues but excludes certain providers. For example, a tax that is imposed on all revenues (including Medicare and Medicaid) but excludes teaching hospitals would have to meet this test. This test cannot be used when a State excludes any or all Medicaid revenue from its tax in addition to the exclusion of providers, since the test compares the proportion of Medicaid revenue being taxed under the proposed tax with the proportion of Medicaid revenue being taxed under a broad-based tax.

(i) A State seeking waiver of the broad-based tax requirement only must demonstrate that its proposed tax plan meets the requirement that its plan is generally redistributive by:

(A) Calculating the proportion of the tax revenue applicable to Medicaid if the tax were broad based and applied to all providers or activities within the class (called P1);

(B) Calculating the proportion of the tax revenue applicable to Medicaid under the tax program for which the State seeks a waiver (called P2); and

(C) Calculating the value of P1/P2.

(ii) If the State demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that the value of P1/P2 is at least 1, CMS will automatically approve the waiver request.

(iii) If a tax is enacted and in effect prior to August 13, 1993, and the State demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that the value of P1/P2 is at least 0.90, CMS will review the waiver request. Such a waiver will be approved only if the following two criteria are met:

(A) The value of P1/P2 is at least 0.90; and

(B) The tax excludes or provides credits or deductions only to one or more of the following providers of items and services within the class to be taxed:
