
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Requirements State Financial Participation
###### ยง 433.68 Permissible health care-related taxes.
####### B

(A) Calculating, using ordinary least squares, the slope (designated as () (that is. the value of the x coefficient) of two linear regressions, in which the dependent variable is each provider's percentage share of the total tax paid by all taxpayers during a 12-month period, and the independent variable is the taxpayer's "Medicaid Statistic". The term "Medicaid Statistic" means the number of the provider's taxable units applicable to the Medicaid program during a 12-month period. If, for example, the State imposed a tax based on provider charges, the amount of a provider's Medicaid charges paid during a 12-month period would be its "Medicaid Statistic". If the tax were based on provider inpatient days, the number of the provider's Medicaid days during a 12-month period would be its "Medicaid Statistic". For the purpose of this test, it is not relevant that a tax program exempts Medicaid from the tax.

(B) Calculating the slope (designated as B1) of the linear regression, as described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, for the State's tax program, if it were broad based and uniform.

(C) Calculating the slope (designated as B2) of the linear regression, as described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, for the State's tax program, as proposed.

(ii) If the State demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that the value of B1/B2 is at least 1, CMS will automatically approve the waiver request.

(iii) If the State demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that the value of B1/B2 is at least 0.95, CMS will review the waiver request. Such a waiver will be approved only if the following two criteria are met:

(A) The value of B1/B2 is at least 0.95; and

(B) The tax excludes or provides credits or deductions only to one or more of the following providers of items and services within the class to be taxes:
