
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart C - Mechanized Claims Processing and Information Retrieval Systems
###### ยง 433.111 Definitions.

For purposes of this section:

(a) The following terms are defined at 45 CFR part 95, subpart F ยง 95.605:

(b) "Mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system" means:

(1) "Mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system" means the system of software and/or hardware used to process claims for medical assistance and to retrieve and produce service utilization and management information required by the Medicaid single state agency and Federal government for program administration and audit purposes. It may include modules of hardware, software, and other technical capabilities that are used by the Medicaid Single State Agency to manage, monitor, and administer the Medicaid enterprise, including transaction processing, information management, and reporting and data analytics.

(2) "Mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system" includes a "System of Systems." Under this definition all modules or systems developed to support a Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS) and Eligibility and Enrollment (E&E) may be implemented as discrete, independent, interoperable elements. Use of a System of Systems requires interoperability between the systems.

(i) The system consists of-

(A) Required modules specified by the Secretary.

(B) Required changes to the system or required module that are specified by the Secretary.

(C) Approved enhancements to the system or module.

(ii) A "Mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system" include-s-

(A) An Eligibility and Enrollment (E&E) System which is used to process applications from Medicaid or CHIP applicants and beneficiaries to determine eligibility for enrollment in the Medicaid or CHIP programs, as well as change in circumstance updates and renewals; and

(B) A Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS) which is used to process claims for Medicaid payment from providers of medical care and services furnished to beneficiaries under the medical assistance program and to perform other functions necessary for economic and efficient operations, management, monitoring, and administration of the Medicaid program. The pertinent business areas are those included in the MMIS Certification Toolkit, and they may be applicable to Fee-For-Service, Managed Care, or an Administrative Services Organization (ASO) model.

(c) "Medicaid Information Technology Architecture (MITA)" is defined at ยง 495.302 of this chapter.

(d) "Open source" means software that can be used freely, changed, and shared (in modified or unmodified form) by anyone. Open source software is distributed under Open Source Initiative-approved licenses that comply with an open source framework that allows for free redistribution, provision of the source code, allowance for modifications and derived works, free and open distribution of licenses without restrictions and licenses that are technology-neutral.

(e) "Proprietary" means a closed source product licensed under exclusive legal right of the copyright holder with the intent that the licensee is given the right to use the software only under certain conditions, and restricted from other uses, such as modification, sharing, studying, redistribution, or reverse engineering.

(f) "Service" means a self-contained unit of functionality that is a discretely invokable operation. Services can be combined to provide the functionality of a large software application.

(g) "Shared Service" means the use of a service, including SaaS, by one part of an organization or group, including states, where that service is also made available to other entities of the organization, group or states. Thus the funding and resourcing of the service is shared and the providing department effectively becomes an internal service provider.

(h) "Module" means a packaged, functional business process or set of processes implemented through software, data, and interoperable interfaces that are enabled through design principles in which functions of a complex system are partitioned into discrete, scalable, reusable components.

(i) "Commercial Off the Shelf" (COTS) software means specialized software (which could be a system, subsystem or module) designed for specific applications that is available for sale or lease to other users in the commercial marketplace, and that can be used with little or no modification.

(j) "Software-as-a-Service" (SaaS) means a software delivery model in which software is managed and licensed by its vendor-owner on a pay-for-use or subscription basis, centrally hosted, on-demand, and common to all users.
