
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart C - Mechanized Claims Processing and Information Retrieval Systems
###### § 433.116 FFP for operation of mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systems.

(a) Subject to paragraph (j) of this section, FFP is available at 75 percent of expenditures for operation of a mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system approved by CMS, from the first day of the calendar quarter after the date the system met the conditions of initial approval, as established by CMS (including a retroactive adjustment of FFP if necessary to provide the 75 percent rate beginning on the first day of that calendar quarter). Subject to 45 CFR 95.611(a), the State shall obtain prior written approval from CMS when it plans to acquire ADP equipment or services, when it anticipates the total acquisition costs will exceed thresholds, and meets other conditions of the subpart.

(b) CMS will approve enhanced FFP for system operations if the conditions specified in paragraphs (c) through (i) of this section are met.

(c) The conditions of § 433.112(b)(1) through (22) must be met at the time of approval.

(d) The system must have been operating continuously during the period for which FFP is claimed.

(e) The system must provide individual notices, within 45 days of the payment of claims, to all or a sample group of the persons who received services under the plan.

(f) The notice required by paragraph (e) of this section-

(1) Must specify-

(i) The service furnished;

(ii) The name of the provider furnishing the service;

(iii) The date on which the service was furnished; and

(iv) The amount of the payment made under the plan for the service; and

(2) Must not specify confidential services (as defined by the State) and must not be sent if the only service furnished was confidential.

(g) The system must provide both patient and provider profiles for program management and utilization review purposes.

(h) If the State has a Medicaid fraud control unit certified under section 1903(q) of the Act and § 455.300 of this chapter, the Medicaid agency must have procedures to assure that information on probable fraud or abuse that is obtained from, or developed by, the system is made available to that unit. (See § 455.21 of this chapter for State plan requirements.)

(i) The standards and conditions of § 433.112(b)(10) through (b)(16) of this subpart must be met.

(j) Beginning, and no earlier than, April 19, 2011, FFP is available at 75 percent of a State's expenditures for the operation of an E&E system that meets the requirements of this subpart. FFP is not available for E&E systems that do not meet the standards and conditions.
