
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart C - Mechanized Claims Processing and Information Retrieval Systems
###### § 433.119 Conditions for reapproval; notice of decision.

(a) CMS periodically reviews each system operation initially approved under § 433.114 of this subpart and reapproves it for FFP at 75 percent of expenditures if the following standards and conditions are met:

(1) The system meets the requirements of § 433.112(b)(1), (3), (4), and (7) through (22).

(2) The system meets the conditions of § 433.116 (d) through (j).

(3) The system meets the standards, conditions, and performance standards for reapproval and the system requirements in part 11 of the State Medicaid Manual as periodically amended.

(4) A State system must meet all of the requirements of this subpart within the appropriate period CMS determines should apply as required by § 433.123(b) of this subpart.

(b) CMS may review an entire system operation or focus its review on parts of the operation. However, at a minimum, CMS will review standards, system requirements and other conditions of reapproval that have demonstrated weakness in a previous review or reviews.

(c) After performing the review under paragraph (a) of this section, CMS will issue to the Medicaid agency a written notice informing the agency whether the system is reapproved or disapproved. If the system is disapproved, the notice will include the following information:

(1) CMS's decision to reduce FFP for system operations from 75 percent to 50 percent of expenditures, beginning with the first day of the first calendar quarter after CMS issues the written notice to the State.

(2) The findings of fact upon which the determination was made.

(3) A statement that State claims in excess of the reduced FFP rate will be disallowed and that any such disallowance will be appealable to the Departmental Appeals Board.
