
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Third Party Liability
###### ยง 433.138 Identifying liable third parties.
####### Obtaining health insurance information: Initial application and redetermination processes for Medicaid eligibility.

(b)(1) If the Medicaid agency determines eligibility for Medicaid, it must, during the initial application and each redetermination process, obtain from the applicant or beneficiary such health insurance information as would be useful in identifying legally liable third party resources so that the agency may process claims under the third party liability payment procedures specified in ยง 433.139 (b) through (f). Health insurance information may include, but is not limited to, the name of the policy holder, his or her relationship to the applicant or beneficiary, the social security number (SSN) of the policy holder, and the name and address of insurance company and policy number.

(2) If Medicaid eligibility is determined by the Federal agency administering the supplemental security income program under title XVI in accordance with a written agreement under section 1634 of the Act, the Medicaid agency must take the following action. It must enter into an agreement with CMS or must have, prior to February 1, 1985, executed a modified section 1634 agreement that is still in effect to provide for-

(i) Collection, from the applicant or beneficiary during the initial application and each redetermination process, of health insurance information in the form and manner specified by the Secretary; and

(ii) Transmittal of the information to the Medicaid agency.

(3) If Medicaid eligibility is determined by any other agency in accordance with a written agreement, the Medicaid agency must modify the agreement to provide for-

(i) Collection, from the applicant or beneficiary during the initial application and each redetermination process, of such health insurance information as would be useful in identifying legally liable third party resources so that the Medicaid agency may process claims under the third party liability payment procedures specified in ยง 433.139 (b) through (f). Health insurance information may include, but is not limited to, those elements described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and

(ii) Transmittal of the information to the Medicaid agency.
