
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Third Party Liability
###### § 433.138 Identifying liable third parties.
####### Integration with the State mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system. Basic requirement-Development of an action plan.

(k)(1) If a State has a mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system approved by CMS under subpart C of this part, the agency must have an action plan for pursuing third party liability claims and the action plan must be integrated with the mechanized claims processing and information retrieval system.

(2) The action plan must describe the actions and methodologies the State will follow to-

(i) Identify third parties;

(ii) Determine the liability of third parties;

(iii) Avoid payment of third party claims as required in § 433.139;

(iv) Recover reimbursement from third parties after Medicaid claims payment as required in § 433.139; and,

(v) Record information and actions relating to the action plan.

(3) The action plan must be consistent with the conditions for reapproval set forth in § 433.119. The portion of the plan which is integrated with MMIS is monitored in accordance with those conditions and if the conditions are not met; it is subject to FFP reduction in accordance with procedures set forth in § 433.120. The State is not subject to any other penalty as a result of other monitoring, quality control, or auditing requirements for those items in the action plan.

(4) The agency must submit its action plan to the CMS Regional Office within 120 days from the date CMS issues implementing instructions for the State Medicaid Manual. If a State does not have an approved MMIS on the date of issuance of the State Medicaid Manual but subsequently implements an MMIS, the State must submit its action plan within 90 days from the date the system is operational. The CMS Regional Office approves or disapproves the action plan.
