
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Third Party Liability
###### ยง 433.139 Payment of claims.
####### Waiver of requirements.

(e)(1) The agency may request initial and continuing waiver of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1), (d)(1), and (d)(2) of this section, if it determines that the requirement is not cost-effective. An activity would not be cost-effective if the cost of the required activity exceeds the third party liability recoupment and the required activity accomplishes, at the same or at a higher cost, the same objective as another activity that is being performed by the State.

(i) The agency must submit a request for waiver of the requirement in writing to the CMS regional office.

(ii) The request must contain adequate documentation to establish that to meet a requirement specified by the agency is not cost-effective. Examples of documentation are costs associated with billing, claims recovery data, and a State analysis documenting a cost-effective alternative that accomplishes the same task.

(iii) The agency must agree, if a waiver is granted, to notify CMS of any event that occurs that changes the conditions upon which the waiver was approved.

(2) CMS will review a State's request to have a requirement specified under paragraph (e)(1) of this section waived and will request additional information from the State, if necessary. CMS will notify the State of its approval or disapproval determination within 30 days of receipt of a properly documented request.

(3) CMS may rescind the waiver at any time that it determines that the State no longer meets the criteria for approving the waiver. If the waiver is rescinded, the agency has 6 months from the date of the rescission notice to meet the requirement that had been waived.

(4) An agency requesting a waiver of the requirements specifically concerning either the 60-day limit in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section must submit documentation of written agreement between the agency and the third party, including Medicare fiscal intermediaries and carriers, that extension of the billing requirement is agreeable to all parties.
