
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart E - Methodologies for Determining Federal Share of Medicaid Expenditures for Adult Eligibility Group
###### § 433.206 Threshold methodology.
####### Optional resource criteria proxy adjustment,General.

(d)-(1)Under an election under this paragraph (d), the State may use a resource proxy methodology for purposes of adjusting the claims for the expenditures of the population enrolled under § 435.119 of this chapter to account for individuals who would not have been eligible for Medicaid because of the application of resource criteria as in effect for such population as of December 1, 2009, and therefore would meet the newly eligible individual definition at § 433.204(a)(1). Under this paragraph (d), a State may elect to apply a resource proxy methodology with respect to the resource criteria as in effect on December 1, 2009 and applied to the expenditures for a specific eligibility category or categories of individuals as in effect on December 1, 2009, or applied to the expenditures of the entire population enrolled under § 435.119 of this chapter. As provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the State must indicate any resource proxy election in the threshold methodology State plan amendment submitted under paragraph (h) of this section. The use of a resource proxy methodology must not delay or interfere with the eligibility determination for an individual.

(2) A State's resource proxy methodology must:

(i) Describe each eligibility group or groups for which an individual eligible under § 435.119 would have been eligible on December 1, 2009, subject to resource criteria, and a methodology to apply those resource criteria as an adjustment to the total expenditures to adjust determinations of the newly eligible population under paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) Be auditable.

(iii) Be based on statistically valid data, which is either:

(A) Existing State data from and for periods before January 1, 2014 on the resources of individuals who had applied and received a determination with respect to Medicaid eligibility, including resource eligibility under the State's applicable December 1, 2009 eligibility criteria. The existing State data must be specifically related to resource eligibility determinations, indicate the number and types of individuals for whom resource determinations were made, and establish the denial rates specifically identified as due to excess resources; or
