
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart E - Methodologies for Determining Federal Share of Medicaid Expenditures for Adult Eligibility Group
###### ยง 433.206 Threshold methodology.
####### 2

() State data from and for periods on or after January 1, 2014 must only be for individuals determined eligible and enrolled under ยง 435.119 of this chapter, must compare individuals' resources to the applicable December 1, 2009 resource criteria to establish denial rates specifically due to excess resources, and identify numbers and types of individuals.

(iv) Describe the State data on individuals' resources used and the application of such data. Whether such State data is based on data described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section, such State data must represent sampling results for a period of sufficient length to be statistically valid.

(v) Provide that the resource proxy methodology will account for the treatment of resources in a statistically valid manner when there is a lack of sufficient information to make a resource determination for a particular individual in a sampled population.

(vi) Describe the application of the resource proxy methodology in establishing the amount and submission of claims for Federal funding by the State for the medical assistance expenditures of the applicable eligibility group(s). Such claims submitted under the resource proxy methodology must reflect the appropriate FMAP for the medical assistance expenditures of the affected eligibility group(s).

(vii) As appropriate, describe and demonstrate the statistical validity of the resource proxy methodology and the use of data under such methodology.
