
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 433 - STATE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart E - Methodologies for Determining Federal Share of Medicaid Expenditures for Adult Eligibility Group
###### § 433.206 Threshold methodology.
####### Enrollment caps adjustment,Scope.

(e)-(1)Certain States may have applied enrollment caps, limits, or waiting lists in their Medicaid programs as in effect on December 1, 2009. Under the definition of newly eligible individual in § 433.204(a)(1), such States must consider as newly eligible those individuals eligible under § 435.119 of this chapter who would otherwise be eligible for full benefits, benchmark coverage, or benchmark equivalent coverage provided through a demonstration under the State plan effective December 1, 2009, but would not have been enrolled (or would have been on a waiting list) based on the application of an enrollment cap or limit determined in accordance with the approved demonstration as in effect on that date. Such States must only apply such enrollment cap, limit or waiting list provisions with respect to eligibility category or categories for which such provisions were applicable (for example, nonpregnant childless adults or parents/caretaker relatives) and in effect under the State's Medicaid program on December 1, 2009. For this purpose, individuals who would have been on a waiting list are considered as not enrolled under the demonstration.

(2) A State for which multiple enrollment caps or limits were in effect under its December 1, 2009 Medicaid program may elect to combine such enrollment caps or limits, unless such treatment would preclude claiming of Federal funding at the applicable FMAP rate required under § 433.10(b) or (c) (for example, to distinguish claims for childless adults and parents in an expansion State) for the medical assistance expenditures of individuals determined eligible and enrolled under § 435.119 of this chapter; a State with enrollment cap or limit provisions that would preclude combining enrollment caps or limit provisions must use separate caps; or, the State, at its option, may elect to use separate caps.

(3) For purposes of claiming Federal funding, with respect to each claiming period for which the State claims Federal funding for an eligibility category for which an enrollment cap or limit is applicable and in effect on December 1, 2009, the State must account for:

(i) The total unduplicated number of individuals eligible and enrolled under § 435.119 of this chapter for the applicable claiming period.

(ii) The total State medical assistance expenditures for individuals eligible and enrolled under § 435.119 of this chapter for the applicable claiming period.

(iii) The enrollment cap or limit in effect on December 1, 2009 for the eligibility category, determined in accordance with the approved demonstration as in effect on December 1, 2009.

(A) For States that elect under paragraph (e)(2) of this section to combine the enrollment caps, the enrollment cap is the sum of the enrollment caps for each eligibility group which is being combined.

(B) For States that elect to treat the enrollment caps separately under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, each enrollment cap will be accounted for separately.

(C) The level of the enrollment cap will be as authorized under the demonstration in effect on December 1, 2009; or, if the State had affirmatively set the cap at a lower level consistent with flexibility provided by the demonstration terms and conditions, the State may elect to apply the lower cap as in effect in the State on December 1, 2009. If a State elects to use such an alternate State-specified enrollment cap, the State will provide CMS with evidence, in its State plan amendment submitted to CMS under paragraph (h) of this section, that it had affirmatively implemented such a cap. Whether the State uses the authorized cap or a lower, verifiable cap as in effect in the State consistent with the demonstration special terms and conditions, the amount of expenditures up to the proportion of the 2009 enrollment cap to the total number of currently enrolled people in the group would not be claimed at the newly eligible FMAP.

(4) States for which an enrollment cap, limit, or waiting list was applicable under their Medicaid programs as in effect on December 1, 2009, must describe the treatment of such provision or provisions in the submission to CMS for approval by CMS in accordance with the State plan requirements outlined in § 433.206(h).
