
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart B - Mandatory Coverage
###### Mandatory Coverage of the Aged, Blind, and Disabled
####### § 435.121 Individuals in States using more restrictive requirements for Medicaid than the SSI requirements.
######## Financial conditions.

(e)(1) The agency may apply more restrictive requirements that are financial conditions of eligibility.

(2) Any income eligibility standards that the agency applies must:

(i) Equal the income standard (or Federal Benefit Rate (FBR)) that would be used under SSI based on an individual's living arrangement; or

(ii) Be a more restrictive standard which is no more restrictive than that under the approved State's January 1, 1972 Medicaid plan.

(3) If the categorically needy income standard established under paragraph (e)(2) of this section is less than the optional categorically needy standard established under § 435.230, the agency must provide Medicaid to all aged, blind, and disabled individuals who have income equal to or below the higher standard.

(4) In a State that does not have a medically needy program that covers aged, blind, and disabled individuals, the agency must allow individuals to deduct from income incurred medical and remedial expenses (that is, spend down) to become eligible under this section. However, individuals with income above the categorically needy standards may only spend down to the standard selected by the State under paragraph (e)(2) of this section which applies to the individual's living arrangement.

(5) In a State that elects to provide medically needy coverage to aged, blind, and disabled individuals, the agency must allow individuals to deduct from income incurred medical and remedial care expenses (spend down) to become categorically needy when they are SSI beneficiaries (including individuals deemed to be SSI beneficiaries under §§ 435.135, 435.137, and 435.138), eligible spouses of SSI beneficiaries, State supplement beneficiaries, and individuals who are eligible for a supplement but who do not receive supplementary payments. Such persons may only spend down to the standard selected by the State under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Individuals who are not SSI beneficiaries, eligible spouses of SSI beneficiaries, State supplement beneficiaries, or individuals who are eligible for a supplement must spend down to the State's medically needy income standards for aged, blind, and disabled individuals in order to become Medicaid eligible.
