
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart C - Options for Coverage
###### Options for Coverage of the Aged, Blind, and Disabled
####### ยง 435.234 Individuals receiving only optional State supplements in States using more restrictive eligibility requirements than SSI and certain States using SSI criteria.

(a) In States using more restrictive eligibility requirements than SSI or in States that use SSI criteria but do not have section 1616 or 1634 agreements with the Social Security Administration for eligibility determinations, the agency may provide Medicaid to individuals specified in paragraph (b) of this section who receive only a State supplement if the State supplement meets the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The agency may provide Medicaid to all individuals receiving only State supplements if, except for their income, the individuals meet the more restrictive eligibility requirements under ยง 435.121 or SSI criteria, or to one or more of the following classifications of individuals who meet these criteria:

(1) All aged individuals.

(2) All blind individuals.

(3) All disabled individuals.

(4) Only aged individuals in domiciliary facilities or other group living arrangements as defined under SSI.

(5) Only blind individuals in domiciliary facilities or other group living arrangements as defined under SSI.

(6) Only disabled individuals in domiciliary facilities or other group living arrangements as defined under SSI.

(7) Individuals receiving a Federally-administered optional State supplement that meets the conditions specified in this section.

(8) Individuals in additional classifications specified by the Secretary.

(9) Reasonable groups of individuals, as specified by the State, receiving State-administered supplementary payments.

(c) Payments under the optional supplement program must be:

(1) Based on need and paid in cash on a regular basis;

(2) Equal to the difference between the individual's countable income and the income standard used to determine eligibility for supplements. Countable income is income remaining after deductions are applied. The income deductions may be more restrictive than required under SSI (see ยง 435.1006 for limitations on FFP in Medicaid expenditures for individuals receiving optional State supplements); and

(3) Available to all individuals in each classification in paragraph (b) of this section and available on a statewide basis. However, the plan may provide for variations in the income standard by political subdivision according to cost-of-living differences.
