
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart C - Options for Coverage
###### Options for Coverage of the Aged, Blind, and Disabled
####### ยง 435.232 Individuals receiving only optional State supplements.

(a) If the agency provides Medicaid to individuals receiving SSI under ยง 435.120, it may provide Medicaid, in one or more of the following classifications, to individuals who receive only an optional State supplement that meets the conditions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and who would be eligible for SSI except for the level of their income.

(1) All aged individuals.

(2) All blind individuals.

(3) All disabled individuals.

(4) Only aged individuals in domiciliary facilities or other group living arrangements as defined under SSI.

(5) Only blind individuals in domiciliary facilities or other group living arrangements as defined under SSI.

(6) Only disabled individuals in domiciliary facilities or other group living arrangements as defined under SSI.

(7) Individuals receiving a federally administered optional State supplement that meets the conditions specified in this section.

(8) Individuals in additional classifications specified by the Secretary for federally administered supplementary payments under 20 CFR 416.2020(d).

(9) Reasonable groups of individuals, as specified by the State, receiving State-administered supplementary payments.

(b) Payments under the optional supplement program must be-

(1) Based on need and paid in cash on a regular basis;

(2) Equal to the difference between the individual's countable income and the income standard used to determine eligibility for supplement. Countable income is income remaining after deductions required under SSI or, at State option, more liberal deductions are made (see ยง 435.1006 for limitations on FFP in Medicaid expenditures for individuals receiving optional State supplements); and

(3) Available to all individuals in each classification in paragraph (a) of this section and available on a statewide basis. However, the plan may provide for variations in the income standard by political subdivision according to cost-of-living differences.
