
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart E - General Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 435.403 State residence.
####### Placement by a State in an out-of-State institution,General rule.

(e)-(1)Any agency of the State, including an entity recognized under State law as being under contract with the State for such purposes, that arranges for an individual to be placed in an institution located in another State, is recognized as acting on behalf of the State in making a placement. The State arranging or actually making the placement is considered as the individual's State of residence.

(2) Any action beyond providing information to the individual and the individual's family would constitute arranging or making a State placement. However, the following actions do not constitute State placement:

(i) Providing basic information to individuals about another State's Medicaid program, and information about the availability of health care services and facilities in another State.

(ii) Assisting an individual in locating an institution in another State, provided the individual is capable of indicating intent and independently decides to move.

(3) When a competent individual leaves the facility in which the individual is placed by a State, that individual's State of residence for Medicaid purposes is the State where the individual is physically located.

(4) Where a placement is initiated by a State because the State lacks a sufficient number of appropriate facilities to provide services to its residents, the State making the placement is the individual's State of residence for Medicaid purposes.
