
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart I - Specific Eligibility and Post-Eligibility Financial Requirements for the Medically Needy
###### Medically Needy Income Standard
####### ยง 435.811 Medically needy income standard: General requirements.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, to determine eligibility of medically needy individuals, a Medicaid agency must use a single income standard under this subpart that meets the requirements of this section.

(b) The income standard must take into account the number of persons in the assistance unit. Subject to the limitations specified in paragraph (e) of this section. The standard may not diminish by an increase in the number of persons in the assistance unit. For example, if the income level in the standard for an assistance unit of two is set at $400, the income level in the standard for an assistance unit of three may not be less than $400.

(c) In States that do not use more restrictive requirements than SSI, the income standard must be set at an amount that is no lower than the lowest income standards used under the cash assistance programs that are related to the State's covered medically needy eligibility group or groups of individuals under ยง 435.301. The amount of the income standard is subject to the limitations specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(d) In States that use more restrictive requirements for aged, blind, and disabled individuals than SSI:

(1) For all individuals except aged, blind, and disabled individuals, the income standard must be set in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; and

(2) For all aged, blind, and disabled individuals or any combination of these groups of individuals, the agency may establish a separate single medically needy income standard that is more restrictive than the single income standard set under paragraph (c) of this section. However, the amount of the more restrictive separate standard for aged, blind, or disabled individuals must be no lower than the higher of the lowest categorically needy income standard currently applied under the State's more restrictive criteria under ยง 435.121 or the medically needy income standard in effect under the State's Medicaid plan on January 1, 1972. The amount of the income standard is subject to the limitations specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) The income standards specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section must not exceed the maximum dollar amount of income allowed for purposes of FFP under ยง 435.1007.

(f) The income standard may vary based on the variations between shelter costs in urban areas and rural areas.
