
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart I - Specific Eligibility and Post-Eligibility Financial Requirements for the Medically Needy
###### Medically Needy Income Eligibility
####### § 435.831 Income eligibility.
######## Eligibility based on incurred medical expenses.

(i)(1) Whether a State elects partial or full month coverage, an individual who is expected to contribute a portion of his or her income toward the costs of institutional care or home and community-based services under § 435.725, § 435.726, § 435.733, § 435.735 or § 435.832 is eligible on the first day of the applicable budget (spenddown) period-

(i) If his or her spenddown liability is met after the first day of the budget period; and

(ii) If beginning eligibility after the first day of the budget period makes the individual's share of health care expenses under § 435.725, § 435.726, § 435.733, § 435.735 or § 435.832 greater than the individual's contributable income determined under these sections.

(2) At the end of the prospective period specified in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, and any subsequent prospective period or, if earlier, when any significant change occurs, the agency must reconcile the projected amounts with the actual amounts incurred, or with changes in circumstances, to determine if the adjusted deduction of incurred expenses reduces income to the income standard.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, in States that elect partial month coverage, an individual is eligible for Medicaid on the day that the deduction of incurred health care expenses (and of projected institutional expenses if the agency elects the option under paragraph (g)(1) of this section) reduces income to the income standard.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, in States that elect full month coverage, an individual is eligible on the first day of the month in which spenddown liability is met.

(5) Expenses used to meet spenddown liability are not reimbursable under Medicaid. To the extent necessary to prevent the transfer of an individual's spenddown liability to the Medicaid program, States must reduce the amount of provider charges that would otherwise be reimbursable under Medicaid.
