
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart J - Eligibility in the States and District of Columbia
###### Applications
####### ยง 435.907 Application.
######## Limits on information.

(e)(1) The agency may only require an applicant to provide the information necessary to make an eligibility determination or for a purpose directly connected to the administration of the State plan.

(2) The agency may request information necessary to determine eligibility for other insurance affordability or benefit programs.

(3) The agency may request a non-applicant's SSN provided that-

(i) Provision of such SSN is voluntary;

(ii) Such SSN is used only to determine an applicant's or beneficiary's eligibility for Medicaid or other insurance affordability program or for a purpose directly connected to the administration of the State plan; and

(iii) At the time such SSN is requested, the agency provides clear notice to the individual seeking assistance, or person acting on such individual's behalf, that provision of the non-applicant's SSN is voluntary and information regarding how the SSN will be used.

(f) The agency must require that all initial applications are signed under penalty of perjury. Electronic, including telephonically recorded, signatures and handwritten signatures transmitted via any other electronic transmission must be accepted.

(g) Any application or supplemental form must be accessible to persons who are limited English proficient and persons who have disabilities, consistent with ยง 435.905(b) of this subpart.
