
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart J - Eligibility in the States and District of Columbia
###### General Methods of Administration
####### ยง 435.904 Establishment of outstation locations to process applications for certain low-income eligibility groups.
######## Staffing.

(e)(1) Except for outstation locations that are infrequently used by the low-income eligibility groups, the State agency must have staff available at each outstation location during the regular office operating hours of the State Medicaid agency to accept applications and to assist applicants with the application process.

(2) The agency may station staff at one outstation location or rotate staff among several locations as workload and staffing availability dictate.

(3) The agency may use State employees, provider or contractor employees, or volunteers who have been properly trained to staff outstation locations under the following conditions:

(i) State outstation intake staff may perform all eligibility processing functions, including the eligibility determination, if the staff is authorized to do so at the regular Medicaid intake office.

(ii) Provider or contractor employees and volunteers may perform only initial processing functions as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(4) Provider and contractor employees and volunteers are subject to the confidentiality of information rules specified in part 431, subpart F, of this subchapter, to the prohibition against reassignment of provider claims specified in ยง 447.10 of this subchapter, and to all other State or Federal laws concerning conflicts of interest.

(5) At locations that are infrequently used by the designated low-income eligibility groups, the State agency may use volunteers, provider or contractor employees, or its own eligibility staff, or telephone assistance.

(i) The agency must display a notice in a prominent place at the outstation location advising potential applicants of when outstation intake workers will be available.

(ii) The notice must include a telephone number that applicants may call for assistance.

(iii) The agency must comply with Federal and State laws and regulations governing the provision of adequate notice to persons who are blind or deaf or who are unable to read or understand the English language.
