
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart J - Eligibility in the States and District of Columbia
###### Applications
####### ยง 435.907 Application.
######## Basis and implementation.

(a)In accordance with section 1413(b)(1)(A) of the Affordable Care Act, the agency must accept an application from the applicant, an adult who is in the applicant's household, as defined in ยง 435.603(f), or family, as defined in section 36B(d)(1) of the Code, an authorized representative, or if the applicant is a minor or incapacitated, someone acting responsibly for the applicant, and any documentation required to establish eligibility-

(1) Via the internet Web site described in ยง 435.1200(f) of this part;

(2) By telephone;

(3) Via mail;

(4) In person; and

(5) Through other commonly available electronic means.

(b) The application must be-

(1) The single, streamlined application for all insurance affordability programs developed by the Secretary; or

(2) An alternative single, streamlined application for all insurance affordability programs, which may be no more burdensome on the applicant than the application described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, approved by the Secretary.

(c) For individuals applying, or who may be eligible, for assistance on a basis other than the applicable MAGI standard in accordance with ยง 435.911(c)(2) of this part, the agency may use either-

(1) An application described in paragraph (b) of this section and supplemental forms to collect additional information needed to determine eligibility on such other basis; or

(2) An application designed specifically to determine eligibility on a basis other than the applicable MAGI standard. Such application must minimize burden on applicants.

(3) Any MAGI-exempt applications and supplemental forms in use by the agency must be submitted to the Secretary.

(d) The agency may not require an in-person interview as part of the application process for a determination of eligibility using MAGI-based income.
