
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart J - Eligibility in the States and District of Columbia
###### Redeterminations of Medicaid Eligibility
####### § 435.916 Periodic renewal of Medicaid eligibility.
######## Agency action on information about changes.

(d)(1) Consistent with the requirements of § 435.952 of this part, the agency must promptly redetermine eligibility between regular renewals of eligibility described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section whenever it receives information about a change in a beneficiary's circumstances that may affect eligibility.

(i) For renewals of Medicaid beneficiaries whose financial eligibility is determined using MAGI-based income, the agency must limit any requests for additional information from the individual to information relating to such change in circumstance.

(ii) If the agency has enough information available to it to renew eligibility with respect to all eligibility criteria, the agency may begin a new 12-month renewal period under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section.

(2) If the agency has information about anticipated changes in a beneficiary's circumstances that may affect his or her eligibility, it must redetermine eligibility at the appropriate time based on such changes.

(e) The agency may request from beneficiaries only the information needed to renew eligibility. Requests for non-applicant information must be conducted in accordance with § 435.907(e) of this part.

(f) Determination of ineligibility and transmission of data pertaining to individuals no longer eligible for Medicaid.

(1) Prior to making a determination of ineligibility, the agency must consider all bases of eligibility, consistent with § 435.911 of this part.

(2) For individuals determined ineligible for Medicaid, the agency must determine potential eligibility for other insurance affordability programs and comply with the procedures set forth in § 435.1200(e) of this part.

(g) Any renewal form or notice must be accessible to persons who are limited English proficient and persons with disabilities, consistent with § 435.905(b) of this subpart.
