
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart J - Eligibility in the States and District of Columbia
###### Redeterminations of Medicaid Eligibility
####### ยง 435.918 Use of electronic notices.

(a) Effective no earlier than October 1, 2013 and no later than January 1, 2015, the agency must provide individuals with a choice to receive notices and information required under this part or subpart E of part 431 of this chapter in electronic format or by regular mail and must be permitted to change such election.

(b) If the individual elects to receive communications from the agency electronically, the agency must-

(1) Ensure that the individual's election to receive notices electronically is confirmed by regular mail.

(2) Ensure that the individual is informed of his or her right to change such election to receive notices through regular mail.

(3) Post notices to the individual's electronic account within 1 business day of notice generation.

(4) Send an email or other electronic communication alerting the individual that a notice has been posted to his or her account. The agency may not include confidential information in the email or electronic alert.

(5) Send a notice by regular mail within three business days of the date of a failed electronic communication if an electronic communication is undeliverable.

(6) At the individual's request, provide through regular mail any notice posted to the individual's electronic account.
