
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart K - Federal Financial Participation
###### Limitations on FFP
####### ยง 435.1010 Definitions relating to institutional status.
######## Publicly operated community residence that serves no more than 16 residents

is defined in 20 CFR 416.231(b)(6)(i). A summary of that definition is repeated here for the information of readers.

(a) In general, a publicly operated community residence means-

(1) It is publicly operated as defined in 20 CFR 416.231(b)(2).

(2) It is designed or has been changed to serve no more than 16 residents and it is serving no more than 16; and

(3) It provides some services beyond food and shelter such as social services, help with personal living activities, or training in socialization and life skills. Occasional medical or remedial care may also be provided as defined in 45 CFR 228.1; and

(b) A publicly operated community residence does not include the following facilities, even though they accommodate 16 or fewer residents:

(1) Residential facilities located on the grounds of, or immediately adjacent to, any large institution or multiple purpose complex.

(2) Educational or vocational training institutions that primarily provide an approved, accredited, or recognized program to individuals residing there.

(3) Correctional or holding facilities for individuals who are prisoners, have been arrested or detained pending disposition of charges, or are held under court order as material witnesses or juveniles.

(4) Hospitals, nursing facilities, and intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities.
