
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 435 - ELIGIBILITY IN THE STATES, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, AND AMERICAN SAMOA
##### Subpart M - Coordination of Eligibility and Enrollment Between Medicaid, CHIP, Exchanges and Other Insurance Affordability Programs
###### § 435.1205 Alignment with exchange initial open enrollment period.
####### Medicaid agency responsibilities to achieve coordinated open enrollment.

(b)For the period beginning October 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, the agency must

(1) Accept all of the following:

(i) The single streamlined application described in § 435.907.

(ii) Via secure electronic interface, an electronic account transferred from another insurance affordability program.

(2) For eligibility based on MAGI, comply with the terms of § 435.1200 of this part, such that-

(i) For each electronic account transferred to the agency under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the agency consistent with either of the following:

(A) Section 435.1200(c), accepts a determination of Medicaid eligibility based on MAGI, made by another insurance affordability program.

(B) Section 435.1200(d), determines eligibility for Medicaid based on MAGI.

(ii) Consistent with § 435.1200(e), for each single streamlined application submitted directly to the agency under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section-

(A) Determine eligibility based on MAGI; and

(B) For each individual determined not Medicaid eligible based on MAGI, determine potential eligibility for other insurance affordability programs, based on the requirements which will be effective for each program, and transfer the individual's electronic account to such program via secure electronic interface.

(iii) Provide notice and fair hearing rights, in accordance with § 435.917 of this part, part 431 subpart E of this chapter, and § 435.1200 for those determined ineligible for Medicaid.

(3) For each individual determined eligible based on MAGI in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section-

(i) Provide notice, including the effective date of eligibility, to such individual, consistent with § 435.917 of this part, and furnish Medicaid.

(ii) Apply the terms of § 435.916 (relating to beneficiary responsibility to inform the agency of any changes in circumstances that may affect eligibility) and § 435.952 (regarding use of information received by the agency). The first renewal under § 435.916 of this part may, at State option, be scheduled to occur anytime between 12 months from the date of application and 12 months from January 1, 2014.

(4) For eligibility effective in 2013, for all applicants-

(i) Consistent with the requirements of subpart J of this part, and applying the eligibility requirements in effect under the State plan, or waiver of such plan, as of the date the individual submits an application to any insurance affordability program-

(A) Determine the individual's eligibility based on the information provided on the application or in the electronic account; or

(B) Request additional information from the individual needed by the agency to determine eligibility based on the eligibility requirements in effect on such date, including on a basis excepted from application of MAGI-based methods, as described in § 435.603, and determine such eligibility if such information is provided; and

(C) Furnish Medicaid to individuals determined eligible under this clause or provide notice and fair hearing rights in accordance with part 431 subpart E of this part if eligibility effective in 2013 is denied; or

(ii) Notify the individual of the opportunity to submit a separate application for coverage effective in 2013 and information on how to obtain and submit such application.
