
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 55a - PROGRAM GRANTS FOR BLACK LUNG CLINICS
##### Subpart B - Grants to States
###### ยง 55a.201 What is required for a State application?

An approvable State application must contain assurances that the State will:

(a) Provide the following services for active and inactive miners in the State:

(1) Primary care;

(2) Patient and family education and counseling;

(3) Outreach;

(4) Patient care coordination, including individual patient care plans for all patients;

(5) Antismoking advice; and

(6) Other symptomatic treatments.

(b) Provide medical services in consultation with a physician with special training or experience in the diagnosis and treatment of respiratory diseases.

(c) Meet all criteria for approval and designation by the Department of Labor under 20 CFR part 725 to perform disability examination and provide treatment under the Act.

(d) Use grant funds under this part to supplement and not supplant existing services of the State.

(e) Provide the services described above for those miners previously served by a Black Lung Clinic in the State for which grant support expires during the funding period of the State's grant.

(f) Provide services described above regardless of a person's ability to pay.

(g) Audit its expenditures from amounts received under this part in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of 45 CFR part 75.
