
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart B - Mandatory Coverage of the Categorically Needy
###### § 436.124 Newborn children.

(a) The agency must provide Medicaid eligibility to a child born to a woman who has applied for, has been determined eligible and is receiving Medicaid on the date of the child's birth. The child is deemed to have applied and been found eligible for Medicaid on the date of birth and remains eligible for one year so long as the woman remains (or would remain if pregnant) eligible and the child is a member of the woman's household. This provision applies in instances where the labor and delivery services were furnished prior to the date of application and covered by Medicaid based on retroactive eligibility.

(b) The agency must provide Medicaid eligibility in the same manner described in paragraph (a) of this section to a child born to an otherwise-eligible qualified alien woman subject to the 5-year bar so long as the woman has filed a complete Medicaid application, including but not limited to meeting residency, income and resource requirements, has been determined eligible, is receiving Medicaid on the date of the child's birth, and remains (or would remain if pregnant) Medicaid eligible. All standard Medicaid application procedures apply, including timely determination of eligibility and adequate notice of the agency's decision concerning eligibility. A 5-year bar qualified alien receiving emergency medical services only under § 435.139 of this chapter is considered to be Medicaid-eligible and receiving Medicaid for purposes of this provision. With respect to whether the mother remains (or would remain if pregnant) eligible for Medicaid after the birth of the child, the State must determine whether a 5-year bar qualified alien would remain eligible for emergency services under § 435.139 of this chapter. In determining whether the woman would remain eligible for these services, the State must consider whether the woman would remain eligible if pregnant. This provision applies in instances where the labor and delivery services were furnished prior to the date of application and covered by Medicaid based on retroactive eligibility.

(c) The agency must provide Medicaid eligibility in the same manner described in paragraph (a) of this section to a child born to an otherwise-eligible non-qualified alien woman so long as the woman has filed a complete Medicaid application (other than providing a social security number or demonstrating immigration status), including but not limited to meeting residency, income and resource requirements, has been determined eligible, is receiving Medicaid on the date of the child's birth, and remains (or would remain if pregnant) Medicaid eligible. All standard Medicaid application procedures apply, including timely determination of eligibility and adequate notice of the agency's decision concerning eligibility. A non-qualified alien receiving emergency medical services only under § 435.139 of this chapter is considered to be Medicaid-eligible and receiving Medicaid for purposes of this provision. With respect to whether the mother remains (or would remain if pregnant) eligible for Medicaid after the birth of the child, the State must determine whether a non-qualified alien would remain eligible for emergency services under § 435.139 of this chapter. In determining whether the woman would remain eligible for these services, the State must consider whether the woman would remain eligible if pregnant. This provision applies in instances where the labor and delivery services were furnished prior to the date of application and covered by Medicaid based on retroactive eligibility.

(d) A redetermination of eligibility must be completed on behalf of the children described in this provision in accordance with the procedures at § 435.916. At that time, the State must collect documentary evidence of citizenship and identity as required under § 436.406.
