
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart C - Options for Coverage as Categorically Needy
###### Options for Coverage of Families and Children and Aged, Blind, and Disabled Individuals, Including Pregnant Women
####### ยง 436.222 Individuals under age 21 who meet the income and resource requirements of AFDC.

(a) The agency may provide Medicaid to individuals under age 21 (or at State option, under age 20, 19, or 18) or reasonable categories of these individuals as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, who are not receiving cash assistance but who meet the income and resource requirements of the State's approved AFDC plan.

(b) The agency may cover all individuals described in paragraph (a) of this section or reasonable classifications of those individuals. Examples of reasonable classifications are as follows:

(1) Individuals in foster homes or private institutions for whom a public agency is assuming a full or partial financial responsibility. If the agency covers these individuals, it may also provide Medicaid to individuals of the same age in foster homes or private institutions by private nonprofit agencies.

(2) Individuals in adoptions subsidized in full or in part by a public agency.

(3) Individuals in nursing facilities when nursing facility services are provided under the plan to individuals within the age group selected under this provision. If the agency covers these individuals, it may also provide Medicaid to individuals in intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities.

(4) Individuals receiving active treatment as inpatients in psychiatric facilities or programs, if inpatient psychiatric services for individuals under 21 are provided under the plan.
