
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart D - Optional Coverage of the Medically Needy
###### § 436.301 General rules.

(a) A Medicaid agency may provide Medicaid to individuals specified in this subpart who:

(1) Either:

(i) Have income that meets the standard in § 436.811; or

(ii) If their income is more than allowed under the standard, have incurred medical expenses at least equal to the difference between their income and the applicable income standards; and

(2) Have resources that meet the standard in §§ 436.840 and 436.843.

(b) If the agency chooses this option, the following provisions apply:

(1) The agency must provide Medicaid to the following individuals who meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section:

(i) All pregnant women during the course of their pregnancy who, except for income and resources, would be eligible for Medicaid as mandatory or optional categorically needy under subparts B and C of this part;

(ii) All individuals under 18 years of age who, except for income and resources, would be eligible for Medicaid as mandatory categorically needy under subpart B of this part;

(iii) All newborn children born on or after October 1, 1984, to a woman who is eligible as medically needy and receiving Medicaid on the date of the child's birth. The child is deemed to have applied and been found eligible for Medicaid on the date of birth and remains eligible as medically needy for ne year so long as the woman remains eligible and the child is a member of the woman's household. If the woman's basis of eligibility changes to categorically needy, the child is eligible as categorically needy under § 436.124. The woman is considered to remain eligible if she meets the spend-down requirements in any consecutive budget period following the birth of the child.

(iv) Women who, while pregnant, applied for, were eligible for, and received Medicaid services as medically needed on the day that their pregnancy ends. The agency must provide medically needy eligibility to these women for an extended period following termination of pregnancy. This period begins on the last day of the pregnancy and extends through the end of the month in which a 60-day period following termination of pregnancy ends. Eligibility must be provided, regardless of changes in the women's financial circumstances that may occur within this extended period. These women are eligible for the extended period for all services under the plan that are pregnancy-related (as defined in § 440.210(c)(1) of this subchapter).

(2) The agency may provide Medicaid to any or all of the following groups of individuals:

(i) Individuals under age 21 (§ 436.308).

(ii) Specified relatives (§ 436.310).

(iii) Aged (§ 436.320).

(iv) Blind (§ 436.321).

(v) Disabled (§ 436.322).

(3) If the agency provides Medicaid to any individual in a group specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the agency must provide Medicaid to all individuals eligible to be members of that group.
