
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart D - Optional Coverage of the Medically Needy
###### ยง 436.308 Medically needy coverage of individuals under age 21.

(a) If the agency provides Medicaid to the medically needy, it may provide Medicaid to individuals under age 21 (or at State option, under age 20, 19, or 18) as specified in paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) Who would not be covered under the mandatory medically needy group of individuals under 18 under ยง 436.301(b)(1)(ii); and

(2) Who meet the income and resource requirements of subpart I of this part.

(b) The agency may cover all individuals in paragraph (a) of this section or individuals in reasonable classifications. Examples of reasonable classifications are as follows:

(1) Individuals in foster homes or private institutions for whom a public agency is assuming a full or partial financial responsibility. If the agency covers these individuals, it may also provide Medicaid to individuals placed in foster homes or private institutions by private nonprofit agencies.

(2) Individuals in adoptions subsidized in full or in part by a public agency.

(3) Individuals in nursing facilities when nursing facility services are provided under the plan to individuals within the age group selected under this provision. When the agency covers such individuals, it may also provide Medicaid to individuals in intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual disabilities.

(4) Individuals receiving active treatment as inpatients in psychiatric facilities or programs, if inpatient psychiatric services for individuals under 21 are provided under the plan.
