
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - General Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 436.407 Types of acceptable documentary evidence of citizenship.
####### Federal or State census record showing U.S. citizenship or a U.S. place of birth.

(1)(Generally for persons born 1900 through 1950.) The census record must also show the applicant's age.

(2) One of the following documents that show a U.S. place of birth and was created at least 5 years before the application for Medicaid. (For children under 16 the document must have been created near the time of birth or 5 years before the date of application.) This document must be one of the following and show a U.S. place of birth:

(i) Seneca Indian tribal census.

(ii) Bureau of Indian Affairs tribal census records of the Navajo Indians.

(iii) U.S. State Vital Statistics official notification of birth registration.

(iv) A delayed U.S. public birth record that is recorded more than 5 years after the person's birth.

(v) Statement signed by the physician or midwife who was in attendance at the time of birth.

(vi) The Roll of Alaska Natives maintained by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(3) Institutional admission papers from a nursing facility, skilled care facility or other institution created at least 5 years before the initial application date that indicates a U.S. place of birth. Admission papers generally show biographical information for the person including place of birth; the record can be used to establish U.S. citizenship when it shows a U.S. place of birth.

(4) Medical (clinic, doctor, or hospital) record created at least 5 years before the initial application date that indicates a U.S. place of birth. (For children under 16 the document must have been created near the time of birth or 5 years before the date of application.) Medical records generally show biographical information for the person including place of birth; the record can be used to establish U.S. citizenship when it shows a U.S. place of birth. (An immunization record is not considered a medical record for purposes of establishing U.S. citizenship.)
