
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - General Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 436.407 Types of acceptable documentary evidence of citizenship.
####### Written affidavit. Affidavits should ONLY be used in rare circumstances.

(5)If the documentation requirement needs to be met through affidavits, the following rules apply:

(i) There must be at least two affidavits by two individuals who have personal knowledge of the event(s) establishing the applicant's or beneficiary's claim of citizenship (the two affidavits could be combined in a joint affidavit).

(ii) At least one of the individuals making the affidavit cannot be related to the applicant or beneficiary. Neither of the two individuals can be the applicant or beneficiary.

(iii) In order for the affidavit to be acceptable the persons making them must be able to provide proof of their own citizenship and identity.

(iv) If the individual(s) making the affidavit has (have) information which explains why documentary evidence establishing the applicant's claim or citizenship does not exist or cannot be readily obtained, the affidavit should contain this information as well.

(v) The State must obtain a separate affidavit from the applicant/beneficiary or other knowledgeable individual (guardian or representative) explaining why the evidence does not exist or cannot be obtained.

(vi) The affidavits must be signed under penalty of perjury and need not be notarized.
