
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - General Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 436.407 Types of acceptable documentary evidence of citizenship.
####### Evidence of identity.

(e)The following documents may be accepted as proof of identity and must accompany a document establishing citizenship from the groups of documentary evidence of citizenship in the groups in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(1) Identity documents described in 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(v)(B)(1).

(i) Driver's license issued by State or Territory either with a photograph of the individual or other identifying information of the individual such as name, age, sex, race, height, weight, or eye color.

(ii) School identification card with a photograph of the individual.

(iii) U.S. military card or draft record.

(iv) Identification card issued by the Federal, State, or local government with the same information included on driver's licenses.

(v) Military dependent's identification card.

(vi) Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood, or other American Indian/Alaska Native Tribal document with a photograph or other personal identifying information relating to the individual. Acceptable if the document carries a photograph of the applicant or beneficiary, or has other personal identifying information relating to the individual such as age, weight, height, race, sex, and eye color.

(vii) U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner card.

(2) At State option, a State may use a cross match with a Federal or State governmental, public assistance, law enforcement or corrections agency's data system to establish identity if the agency establishes and certifies true identity of individuals. Such agencies may include food stamps, child support, corrections, including juvenile detention, motor vehicle, or child protective services. The State Medicaid Agency is still responsible for assuring the accuracy of the identity determination.

(3) At State option, a State may accept three or more documents that together reasonably corroborate the identity of an individual provided such documents have not been used to establish the individual's citizenship and the individual submitted second or third tier evidence of citizenship. The State must first ensure that no other evidence of identity is available to the individual prior to accepting such documents. Such documents must at a minimum contain the individual's name, plus any additional information establishing the individual's identity. All documents used must contain consistent identifying information. These documents include employer identification cards, high school and college diplomas from accredited institutions (including general education and high school equivalency diplomas), marriage certificates, divorce decrees, and property deeds/titles.
