
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 436 - ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - General Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 436.407 Types of acceptable documentary evidence of citizenship.
####### Third level evidence of citizenship.

(c)Third level evidence of U.S. citizenship is documentary evidence of satisfactory reliability that is used when both primary and secondary evidence is unavailable. Third level evidence may be used only when the applicant or beneficiary alleges birth in the U.S. A second document from paragraph (e) of this section to establish identity must also be presented:

(1) Extract of a hospital record on hospital letterhead established at the time of the person's birth that was created 5 years before the initial application date and that indicates a U.S. place of birth. (For children under 16 the document must have been created near the time of birth or 5 years before the date of application.) Do not accept a souvenir "birth certificate" issued by the hospital.

(2) Life, health, or other insurance record showing a U.S. place of birth that was created at least 5 years before the initial application date that indicates a U.S. place of birth. (For children under 16 the document must have been created near the time of birth or 5 years before the date of application.) Life or health insurance records may show biographical information for the person including place of birth; the record can be used to establish U.S. citizenship when it shows a U.S. place of birth.

(3) Religious record recorded in the U.S. within 3 months of birth showing the birth occurred in the U.S. and showing either the date of the birth or the individual's age at the time the record was made. The record must be an official record recorded with the religious organization. Caution: In questionable cases (for example, where the child's religious record was recorded near a U.S. international border and the child may have been born outside the U.S.), the State must consider verifying the religious record and/or documenting that the mother was in the U.S. at the time of the birth.

(4) Early school record showing a U.S. place of birth. The school record must show the name of the child, the date of admission to the school, the date of birth (or age at the time the record was made), a U.S. place of birth, and the name(s) and place(s) of birth of the applicant's parents.
