
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.3 Standard contract requirements.
####### Requirements for MCOs, PCCMs, PIHPs, or PAHPs that provide covered outpatient drugs.

(s)Contracts that obligate MCOs, PCCMs, PIHPs, or PAHPs to provide coverage of covered outpatient drugs must include the following requirements:

(1) The MCO, PIHP or PAHP provides coverage of covered outpatient drugs as defined in section 1927(k)(2) of the Act, that meets the standards for such coverage imposed by section 1927 of the Act as if such standards applied directly to the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.

(2) The MCO, PIHP, or PAHP reports drug utilization data that is necessary for States to bill manufacturers for rebates in accordance with section 1927(b)(1)(A) of the Act no later than 45 calendar days after the end of each quarterly rebate period. Such utilization information must include, at a minimum, information on the total number of units of each dosage form, strength, and package size by National Drug Code of each covered outpatient drug dispensed or covered by the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.

(3) The MCO, PIHP or PAHP establishes procedures to exclude utilization data for covered outpatient drugs that are subject to discounts under the 340B drug pricing program from the reports required under paragraph (s)(2) of this section when states do not require submission of managed care drug claims data from covered entities directly.

(4) The MCO, PCCM, PIHP, or PAHP must operate a drug utilization review program that complies with the requirements described in section 1927(g) of the Act and part 456, subpart K, of this chapter, as if such requirement applied to the MCO, PCCM, PIHP, or PAHP instead of the State.

(5) The MCO, PCCM, PIHP, or PAHP must provide a detailed description of its drug utilization review program activities to the State on an annual basis.

(6) The MCO, PIHP or PAHP must conduct a prior authorization program that complies with the requirements of section 1927(d)(5) of the Act, as if such requirements applied to the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP instead of the State.
