
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 438.4 Actuarial soundness.
####### CMS review and approval of actuarially sound capitation rates.

(b)Capitation rates for MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs must be reviewed and approved by CMS as actuarially sound. To be approved by CMS, capitation rates must:

(1) Have been developed in accordance with the standards specified in § 438.5 and generally accepted actuarial principles and practices. Any differences in the assumptions, methodologies, or factors used to develop capitation rates for covered populations must be based on valid rate development standards that represent actual cost differences in providing covered services to the covered populations. Any differences in the assumptions, methodologies, or factors used to develop capitation rates must not vary with the rate of Federal financial participation (FFP) associated with the covered populations in a manner that increases Federal costs. The determination that differences in the assumptions, methodologies, or factors used to develop capitation rates for MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs increase Federal costs and vary with the rate of FFP associated with the covered populations must be evaluated for the entire managed care program and include all managed care contracts for all covered populations. CMS may require a State to provide written documentation and justification that any differences in the assumptions, methodologies, or factors used to develop capitation rates for covered populations or contracts represent actual cost differences based on the characteristics and mix of the covered services or the covered populations.

(2) Be appropriate for the populations to be covered and the services to be furnished under the contract.

(3) Be adequate to meet the requirements on MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs in §§ 438.206, 438.207, and 438.208.

(4) Be specific to payments for each rate cell under the contract.

(5) Payments from any rate cell must not cross-subsidize or be cross-subsidized by payments for any other rate cell.

(6) Be certified by an actuary as meeting the applicable requirements of this part, including that the rates have been developed in accordance with the requirements specified in § 438.3(c)(1)(ii) and (e).

(7) Meet any applicable special contract provisions as specified in § 438.6.

(8) Be provided to CMS in a format and within a timeframe that meets requirements in § 438.7.

(9) Be developed in such a way that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP would reasonably achieve a medical loss ratio standard, as calculated under § 438.8, of at least 85 percent for the rate year. The capitation rates may be developed in such a way that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP would reasonably achieve a medical loss ratio standard greater than 85 percent, as calculated under § 438.8, as long as the capitation rates are adequate for reasonable, appropriate, and attainable non-benefit costs.
