
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 56 - GRANTS FOR MIGRANT HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 56.104 Application.

(a) An application for a grant under this part shall be submitted to the Secretary at such time and in such form and manner as the Secretary may prescribe.

(b) The application shall contain a budget and narrative plan of the manner in which the applicant intends to conduct the project and carry out the requirements of this part. The application must describe how and the extent to which the project has met, or plans to meet, each of the requirements in subpart B (relating to grants for planning and development of migrant health centers), subpart C (relating to grants for the operation of migrant health centers), subpart D (relating to grants for the operation of migrant health entities), subpart E (relating to grants for planning and developing migrant health programs), subpart F (relating to grants for the operation of migrant health programs), or subpart G (relating to grants for technical assistance), as applicable. In addition, applications must include:

(1) A statement of specific, measurable objectives and the methods to be used to assess the achievement of the objectives in specified time periods and at least on an annual basis.

(2) The precise boundaries of the catchment area to be served by the applicant. In addition, the application shall include information sufficient to enable the Secretary to determine that the applicant's catchment area meets the following criteria:

(i) The size of such area is such that the services to be provided by the applicant are available and accessible to the residents of the area promptly and as appropriate;

(ii) The boundaries of such area conform, to the extent practicable, to relevant boundaries of political subdivisions, school districts, and areas served by Federal and State health and social service programs; and

(iii) The boundaries of such area eliminate, to the extent possible, barriers resulting from the area's physical characteristics, its residential patterns, its economic and social groupings, and available transportation.

(3)(i) The number of migratory agricultural workers and members of their families, and seasonal agricultural workers and members of their families which resided in the project's catchment area in the most recent calendar year for which statistical data acceptable to the Secretary is available; and

(ii) The approximate period or periods of residence of all groups of migratory agricultural workers and their families counted under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) The results of an assessment of the need that the population to be served has for the services to be provided by the project (or in the case of applications for planning and development projects, the methods to be used in assessing such need), taking into consideration the following factors:

(i) Available health resources in relation to size of the catchment area and population of migratory and seasonal agricultural workers and their families in such area, including appropriate ratios of primary care physicians in general or family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, or obstetrics and gynecology, to such population;

(ii) Health indices for such population, such as infant mortality rate;

(iii) Economic factors affecting such population's use of health services, such as percentage of such population with incomes below the poverty level;

(iv) Demographic factors affecting such population's need and demand for health services, such as percentage of such population age 65 and over; and

(v) Special factors of access resulting from the conditions of employment of such workers (including working hours, housing, and sanitation).

(5) Position descriptions for personnel who will be utilized in carrying out the activities of the project and a statement indicating the need for the positions to be supported with grant funds to accomplish the objectives of the project.

(6) Letters and other forms of evidence showing that efforts have been made to secure financial and professional assistance and support for the project within the proposed catchment area and the continuing involvement of the community in the development and operation of the project.

(7) An assurance that an independent certified public accountant will be engaged to certify that the project's system for the management and control of its finances will be in accord with sound financial management practices, including applicable Federal requirements.

(8) A list of all services proposed to be provided by the project.

(9) A list of services which are to be provided directly by the project through its own staff and resources and a description of any contractual or other arrangements (including copies of documents, where available) entered into, or planned for the provision of services.

(10) The schedule of fees and/or payments and schedule of discounts for services provided by the project.

(11) If the applicant provides services to populations other than migratory and seasonal agricultural workers and their families, identification of such populations.

(12) Evidence that all applicable requirements for review and/or approval of the application under title XV of the Act have been met.

(13) An assurance that the project will be conducted in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part.

(c) The application must be executed by an individual authorized to act for the applicant and to assume on behalf of the applicant the obligations imposed by the statute, the applicable regulations of this part, and any additional conditions of the grant.
