
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.6 Special contract provisions related to payment.
####### Delivery system and provider payment initiatives under MCO, PIHP, or PAHP contracts,General rule.

(c)-(1)Except as specified in this paragraph (c), in paragraph (d) of this section, in a specific provision of Title XIX, or in another regulation implementing a Title XIX provision related to payments to providers, that is applicable to managed care programs, the State may not direct the MCO's, PIHP's or PAHP's expenditures under the contract.

(i) The State may require the MCO, PIHP or PAHP to implement value-based purchasing models for provider reimbursement, such as pay for performance arrangements, bundled payments, or other service payment models intended to recognize value or outcomes over volume of services.

(ii) The State may require MCOs, PIHPs, or PAHPs to participate in a multi-payer or Medicaid-specific delivery system reform or performance improvement initiative.

(iii) The State may require the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP to:

(A) Adopt a minimum fee schedule for network providers that provide a particular service under the contract using State plan approved rates as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(B) Adopt a minimum fee schedule for network providers that provide a particular service under the contract using rates other than the State plan approved rates defined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(C) Provide a uniform dollar or percentage increase for network providers that provide a particular service under the contract.

(D) Adopt a maximum fee schedule for network providers that provide a particular service under the contract, so long as the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP retains the ability to reasonably manage risk and has discretion in accomplishing the goals of the contract.
