
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.7 Rate certification submission.
####### Risk adjustment.

(5)(i) All prospective risk adjustment methodologies must be adequately described with enough detail so that CMS or an actuary applying generally accepted actuarial principles and practices can understand and evaluate the following:

(A) The data, and any adjustments to that data, to be used to calculate the adjustment.

(B) The model, and any adjustments to that model, to be used to calculate the adjustment.

(C) The method for calculating the relative risk factors and the reasonableness and appropriateness of the method in measuring the risk factors of the respective populations.

(D) The magnitude of the adjustment on the capitation rate per MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.

(E) An assessment of the predictive value of the methodology compared to prior rating periods.

(F) Any concerns the actuary has with the risk adjustment process.

(ii) All retrospective risk adjustment methodologies must be adequately described with enough detail so that CMS or an actuary applying generally accepted actuarial principles and practices can understand and evaluate the following:

(A) The party calculating the risk adjustment.

(B) The data, and any adjustments to that data, to be used to calculate the adjustment.

(C) The model, and any adjustments to that model, to be used to calculate the adjustment.

(D) The timing and frequency of the application of the risk adjustment.

(E) Any concerns the actuary has with the risk adjustment process.

(iii) Application of an approved risk adjustment methodology to capitation rates does not require a revised rate certification because payment of capitation rates as modified by the approved risk adjustment methodology must be within the scope of the original rate certification. The State must provide to CMS the payment terms updated by the application of the risk adjustment methodology consistent with ยง 438.3(c).
