
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 56 - GRANTS FOR MIGRANT HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 56.107 Priorities for grants.

(a) Grants under sections 319(c) (1)(A), 319(d)(1)(A), 319(d)(1)(B) of the Act and subparts B, C, and D of this part shall be made in accordance with the following priorities:

(1) Highest priority will be given to approvable applications which propose to serve catchment areas in which 6,000 or more migratory agricultural workers and members of their families reside for more than two months in the calendar year.

(2) Second priority will be given to approvable applications which propose to serve catchment areas in which fewer than 6,000 but more than 1,000 migratory agricultural workers and members of their families reside for more than two months in the applicable calendar year.

(3) Third priority will be given to approvable applications which propose to serve catchment areas in which migratory agricultural workers and members of their families reside but in which fewer than 1,000 such persons reside for more than two months in the applicable calendar year.

(4) Fourth priority will be given to approvable applications which propose to serve catchment areas in which migratory agricultural workers and members of their families reside in the applicable calendar year but in which no such persons reside for more than two months in such year.

(5) Fifth priority will be given to approvable applications which propose to serve catchment areas in which no migratory agricultural workers or members of their families reside for any period in the applicable calendar year but in which 6,000 or more seasonal agricultural workers and the members of their families reside.

(6) Lowest priority will be given to approvable applications which propose to serve catchment areas in which no migratory agricultural workers or members of their families reside for any period in the applicable calendar year and in which fewer than 6,000 seasonal agricultural workers and the members of their families reside.

(b) Grants under sections 319(c) (1)(B) and 319(d)(1)(C) of the Act and subparts E and F of this part will be made in accordance with priorities set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section, in the order set forth.

(c) For the purposes of this section, the applicable calendar year will be the calendar year for which data is provided in accordance with ยง 56.104(b)(3) of this subpart.
