
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 438.7 Rate certification submission.
####### Rates paid under risk contracts.

(c)The State, through its actuary, must certify the final capitation rate paid per rate cell under each risk contract and document the underlying data, assumptions and methodologies supporting that specific capitation rate.

(1) The State may pay each MCO, PIHP or PAHP a capitation rate under the contract that is different than the capitation rate paid to another MCO, PIHP or PAHP, so long as each capitation rate per rate cell that is paid is independently developed and set in accordance with this part.

(2) If the State determines that a retroactive adjustment to the capitation rate is necessary, the retroactive adjustment must be supported by a rationale for the adjustment and the data, assumptions and methodologies used to develop the magnitude of the adjustment must be adequately described with enough detail to allow CMS or an actuary to determine the reasonableness of the adjustment. These retroactive adjustments must be certified by an actuary in a revised rate certification and submitted as a contract amendment to be approved by CMS. All such adjustments are also subject to Federal timely claim filing requirements.

(3) The State may increase or decrease the capitation rate per rate cell, as required in paragraph (c) of this section and § 438.4(b)(4), up to 1.5 percent during the rating period without submitting a revised rate certification, as required under paragraph (a) of this section. However, any changes of the capitation rate within the permissible range must be consistent with a modification of the contract as required in § 438.3(c) and are subject to the requirements at § 438.4(b)(1). Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section, CMS may require a State to provide documentation that modifications to the capitation rate comply with the requirements in §§ 438.3(c) and (e) and 438.4(b)(1).
