
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.8 Medical loss ratio (MLR) standards.
####### Federal, State, and local taxes and licensing and regulatory fees.

(3)Taxes, licensing and regulatory fees for the MLR reporting year include:

(i) Statutory assessments to defray the operating expenses of any State or Federal department.

(ii) Examination fees in lieu of premium taxes as specified by State law.

(iii) Federal taxes and assessments allocated to MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs, excluding Federal income taxes on investment income and capital gains and Federal employment taxes.

(iv) State and local taxes and assessments including:

(A) Any industry-wide (or subset) assessments (other than surcharges on specific claims) paid to the State or locality directly.

(B) Guaranty fund assessments.

(C) Assessments of State or locality industrial boards or other boards for operating expenses or for benefits to sick employed persons in connection with disability benefit laws or similar taxes levied by States.

(D) State or locality income, excise, and business taxes other than premium taxes and State employment and similar taxes and assessments.

(E) State or locality premium taxes plus State or locality taxes based on reserves, if in lieu of premium taxes.

(v) Payments made by an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP that are otherwise exempt from Federal income taxes, for community benefit expenditures as defined in 45 CFR 158.162(c), limited to the highest of either:

(A) Three percent of earned premium; or

(B) The highest premium tax rate in the State for which the report is being submitted, multiplied by the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's earned premium in the State.
