
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.10 Information requirements.
####### Information for enrollees of MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs and PCCM entities-Enrollee handbook.

(g)(1) Each MCO, PIHP, PAHP and PCCM entity must provide each enrollee an enrollee handbook, within a reasonable time after receiving notice of the beneficiary's enrollment, which serves a similar function as the summary of benefits and coverage described in 45 CFR 147.200(a).

(2) The content of the enrollee handbook must include information that enables the enrollee to understand how to effectively use the managed care program. This information must include at a minimum:

(i) Benefits provided by the MCO, PIHP, PAHP or PCCM entity.

(ii) How and where to access any benefits provided by the State, including any cost sharing, and how transportation is provided.

(A) In the case of a counseling or referral service that the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity does not cover because of moral or religious objections, the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity must inform enrollees that the service is not covered by the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity.

(B) The MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity must inform enrollees how they can obtain information from the State about how to access the services described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) The amount, duration, and scope of benefits available under the contract in sufficient detail to ensure that enrollees understand the benefits to which they are entitled.

(iv) Procedures for obtaining benefits, including any requirements for service authorizations and/or referrals for specialty care and for other benefits not furnished by the enrollee's primary care provider.

(v) The extent to which, and how, after-hours and emergency coverage are provided, including:

(A) What constitutes an emergency medical condition and emergency services.

(B) The fact that prior authorization is not required for emergency services.

(C) The fact that, subject to the provisions of this section, the enrollee has a right to use any hospital or other setting for emergency care.

(vi) Any restrictions on the enrollee's freedom of choice among network providers.

(vii) The extent to which, and how, enrollees may obtain benefits, including family planning services and supplies from out-of-network providers. This includes an explanation that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP cannot require an enrollee to obtain a referral before choosing a family planning provider.

(viii) Cost sharing, if any is imposed under the State plan.

(ix) Enrollee rights and responsibilities, including the elements specified in ยง 438.100.

(x) The process of selecting and changing the enrollee's primary care provider.

(xi) Grievance, appeal, and fair hearing procedures and timeframes, consistent with subpart F of this part, in a State-developed or State-approved description. Such information must include:

(A) The right to file grievances and appeals.

(B) The requirements and timeframes for filing a grievance or appeal.

(C) The availability of assistance in the filing process.

(D) The right to request a State fair hearing after the MCO, PIHP or PAHP has made a determination on an enrollee's appeal which is adverse to the enrollee.

(E) The fact that, when requested by the enrollee, benefits that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP seeks to reduce or terminate will continue if the enrollee files an appeal or a request for State fair hearing within the timeframes specified for filing, and that the enrollee may, consistent with state policy, be required to pay the cost of services furnished while the appeal or state fair hearing is pending if the final decision is adverse to the enrollee.

(xii) How to exercise an advance directive, as set forth in ยง 438.3(j). For PAHPs, information must be provided only to the extent that the PAHP includes any of the providers described in ยง 489.102(a) of this chapter.

(xiii) How to access auxiliary aids and services, including additional information in alternative formats or languages.

(xiv) The toll-free telephone number for member services, medical management, and any other unit providing services directly to enrollees.

(xv) Information on how to report suspected fraud or abuse;

(xvi) Any other content required by the State.

(3) Information required by this paragraph to be provided by a MCO, PIHP, PAHP or PCCM entity will be considered to be provided if the MCO, PIHP, PAHP or PCCM entity:

(i) Mails a printed copy of the information to the enrollee's mailing address;

(ii) Provides the information by email after obtaining the enrollee's agreement to receive the information by email;

(iii) Posts the information on the Web site of the MCO, PIHP, PAHP or PCCM entity and advises the enrollee in paper or electronic form that the information is available on the Internet and includes the applicable Internet address, provided that enrollees with disabilities who cannot access this information online are provided auxiliary aids and services upon request at no cost; or

(iv) Provides the information by any other method that can reasonably be expected to result in the enrollee receiving that information.

(4) The MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity must give each enrollee notice of any change that the State defines as significant in the information specified in this paragraph (g), at least 30 days before the intended effective date of the change.
