
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.10 Information requirements.
####### Information for all enrollees of MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, and PCCM entities-Provider Directory.

(h)(1) Each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and when appropriate, the PCCM entity, must make available in paper form upon request and electronic form, the following information about its network providers:

(i) The provider's name as well as any group affiliation.

(ii) Street address(es).

(iii) Telephone number(s).

(iv) Web site URL, as appropriate.

(v) Specialty, as appropriate.

(vi) Whether the provider will accept new enrollees.

(vii) The provider's cultural and linguistic capabilities, including languages (including American Sign Language) offered by the provider or a skilled medical interpreter at the provider's office.

(viii) Whether the provider's office/facility has accommodations for people with physical disabilities, including offices, exam room(s) and equipment.

(2) The provider directory must include the information in paragraph (h)(1) of this section for each of the following provider types covered under the contract:

(i) Physicians, including specialists;

(ii) Hospitals;

(iii) Pharmacies;

(iv) Behavioral health providers; and

(v) LTSS providers, as appropriate.

(3) Information included in-

(i) A paper provider directory must be updated at least-

(A) Monthly, if the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity does not have a mobile-enabled, electronic directory; or

(B) Quarterly, if the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity has a mobile-enabled, electronic provider directory.

(ii) An electronic provider directory must be updated no later than 30 calendar days after the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity receives updated provider information.

(4) Provider directories must be made available on the MCO's, PIHP's, PAHP's, or, if applicable, PCCM entity's Web site in a machine readable file and format as specified by the Secretary.
