
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.10 Information requirements.
####### Information for all enrollees of MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, and PCCM entities: General requirements.

(f)(1) The MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and, when appropriate, the PCCM entity, must make a good faith effort to give written notice of termination of a contracted provider to each enrollee who received his or her primary care from, or was seen on a regular basis by, the terminated provider. Notice to the enrollee must be provided by the later of 30 calendar days prior to the effective date of the termination, or 15 calendar days after receipt or issuance of the termination notice.

(2) The State must notify all enrollees of their right to disenroll consistent with the requirements of ยง 438.56 at least annually. Such notification must clearly explain the process for exercising this disenrollment right, as well as the alternatives available to the enrollee based on their specific circumstance. For States that choose to restrict disenrollment for periods of 90 days or more, States must send the notice no less than 60 calendar days before the start of each enrollment period.

(3) The MCO, PIHP, PAHP and, when appropriate, the PCCM entity must make available, upon request, any physician incentive plans in place as set forth in ยง 438.3(i).
