
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.10 Information requirements.
####### Language and format.

(d)The State must:

(1) Establish a methodology for identifying the prevalent non-English languages spoken by enrollees and potential enrollees throughout the State, and in each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity service area.

(2) Make oral interpretation available in all languages and written translation available in each prevalent non-English language. Written materials that are critical to obtaining services for potential enrollees must include taglines in the prevalent non-English languages in the State, explaining the availability of written translations or oral interpretation to understand the information provided, information on how to request auxiliary aids and services, and the toll-free telephone number of the entity providing choice counseling services as required by ยง 438.71(a). Taglines for written materials critical to obtaining services must be printed in a conspicuously-visible font size.

(3) Require each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity to make its written materials that are critical to obtaining services, including, at a minimum, provider directories, enrollee handbooks, appeal and grievance notices, and denial and termination notices, available in the prevalent non-English languages in its particular service area. Written materials that are critical to obtaining services must also be made available in alternative formats upon request of the potential enrollee or enrollee at no cost, include taglines in the prevalent non-English languages in the State and in a conspicuously visible font size explaining the availability of written translation or oral interpretation to understand the information provided, information on how to request auxiliary aids and services, and include the toll-free and TTY/TDY telephone number of the MCO's, PIHP's, PAHP's, or PCCM entity's member/customer service unit. Auxiliary aids and services must also be made available upon request of the potential enrollee or enrollee at no cost.

(4) Make interpretation services available to each potential enrollee and require each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity to make those services available free of charge to each enrollee. This includes oral interpretation and the use of auxiliary aids such as TTY/TDY and American Sign Language. Oral interpretation requirements apply to all non-English languages, not just those that the State identifies as prevalent.

(5) Notify potential enrollees, and require each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity to notify its enrollees-

(i) That oral interpretation is available for any language and written translation is available in prevalent languages;

(ii) That auxiliary aids and services are available upon request and at no cost for enrollees with disabilities; and

(iii) How to access the services in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(6) Provide, and require MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs, and PCCM entities to provide, all written materials for potential enrollees and enrollees consistent with the following:

(i) Use easily understood language and format.

(ii) Use a font size no smaller than 12 point.

(iii) Be available in alternative formats and through the provision of auxiliary aids and services in an appropriate manner that takes into consideration the special needs of enrollees or potential enrollees with disabilities or limited English proficiency.
