
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 438.10 Information requirements.
####### Basic rules.

(c)(1) Each State, enrollment broker, MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, and PCCM entity must provide all required information in this section to enrollees and potential enrollees in a manner and format that may be easily understood and is readily accessible by such enrollees and potential enrollees.

(2) The State must utilize its beneficiary support system required in ยง 438.71.

(3) The State must operate a Web site that provides the content, either directly or by linking to individual MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity Web sites, specified in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section.

(4) For consistency in the information provided to enrollees, the State must develop and require each MCO, PIHP, PAHP and PCCM entity to use:

(i) Definitions for managed care terminology, including appeal, co-payment, durable medical equipment, emergency medical condition, emergency medical transportation, emergency room care, emergency services, excluded services, grievance, habilitation services and devices, health insurance, home health care, hospice services, hospitalization, hospital outpatient care, medically necessary, network, non-participating provider, physician services, plan, preauthorization, participating provider, premium, prescription drug coverage, prescription drugs, primary care physician, primary care provider, provider, rehabilitation services and devices, skilled nursing care, specialist, and urgent care; and

(ii) Model enrollee handbooks and enrollee notices.

(5) The State must ensure, through its contracts, that each MCO, PIHP, PAHP and PCCM entity provides the required information in this section to each enrollee.

(6) Enrollee information required in this section may not be provided electronically by the State, MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity unless all of the following are met:

(i) The format is readily accessible;

(ii) The information is placed in a location on the State, MCO's, PIHP's, PAHP's, or PCCM's, or PCCM entity's Web site that is prominent and readily accessible;

(iii) The information is provided in an electronic form which can be electronically retained and printed;

(iv) The information is consistent with the content and language requirements of this section; and

(v) The enrollee is informed that the information is available in paper form without charge upon request and provides it upon request within 5 business days.

(7) Each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity must have in place mechanisms to help enrollees and potential enrollees understand the requirements and benefits of the plan.
