
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart B - State Responsibilities
###### ยง 438.54 Managed care enrollment.
####### Passive enrollment.

(6)For States that use a passive enrollment process, the process must assign potential enrollees to qualified MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs and PCCM entities. To be a qualified MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity, it must:

(i) Not be subject to the intermediate sanction described in ยง 438.702(a)(4); and

(ii) Have capacity to enroll beneficiaries.

(7) The passive and default enrollment processes must seek to preserve existing provider-beneficiary relationships and relationships with providers that have traditionally served Medicaid beneficiaries.

(i) An "existing provider-beneficiary relationship" is one in which the provider was a main source of Medicaid services for the beneficiary during the previous year. This may be established through State records of previous managed care enrollment or FFS experience, encounter data, or through contact with the beneficiary.

(ii) A provider is considered to have "traditionally served" Medicaid beneficiaries if it has experience in serving the Medicaid population.

(8) If the approach in paragraph (d)(7) of this section is not possible, the State must distribute the beneficiaries equitably among the MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs and PCCM entities available to enroll them.

(i) The State may not arbitrarily exclude any MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity from being considered; and

(ii) The State may consider additional criteria to conduct the default enrollment process, including the enrollment preferences of family members, previous plan assignment of the beneficiary, quality assurance and improvement performance, procurement evaluation elements, accessibility of provider offices for people with disabilities (when appropriate), and other reasonable criteria related to a beneficiary's experience with the Medicaid program.
