
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart B - State Responsibilities
###### ยง 438.54 Managed care enrollment.
####### Mandatory managed care programs.

(d)(1) States must have an enrollment system for a mandatory managed care program that includes the elements specified in paragraphs (d)(2) through (8) of this section.

(2) The State's enrollment system must implement enrollment in a MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity as follows:

(i) If the State does not use a passive enrollment process and the potential enrollee does not make an active choice of a MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity during the period allowed by the State, the potential enrollee will be enrolled into a MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity selected by the State's default process.

(ii) If the State uses a passive enrollment process, the potential enrollee must either accept the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity selected by the State's passive enrollment process or select a different MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity. If the potential enrollee does not make an active choice during the time allowed by the State, the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity selected by the passive enrollment process will remain effective.

(3) A State must provide informational notices to each potential enrollee at the time the potential enrollee first becomes eligible to enroll in a managed care program and within a timeframe that enables the potential enrollee to use the information in choosing among available managed care plans. The notices must:

(i) Include the MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs, or PCCM entities available to the potential enrollee;

(ii) Provide clear instructions for how to make known to the State the enrollee's selection of a MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity;

(iii) Clearly explain the implications to the potential enrollee of not making an active choice of an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity as well as the implications of making an active choice of an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity;

(iv) Provide a comprehensive explanation of the length of the enrollment period, the 90 day without cause disenrollment period, and all other disenrollment options as specified in ยง 438.56;

(v) Include the contact information for the beneficiary support system in ยง 438.71; and

(vi) Comply with the information requirements in ยง 438.10.
