
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart B - State Responsibilities
###### ยง 438.68 Network adequacy standards.
####### Development of network adequacy standards.

(c)(1) States developing network adequacy standards consistent with paragraph (b)(1) of this section must consider, at a minimum, the following elements:

(i) The anticipated Medicaid enrollment.

(ii) The expected utilization of services.

(iii) The characteristics and health care needs of specific Medicaid populations covered in the MCO, PIHP, and PAHP contract.

(iv) The numbers and types (in terms of training, experience, and specialization) of network providers required to furnish the contracted Medicaid services.

(v) The numbers of network providers who are not accepting new Medicaid patients.

(vi) The geographic location of network providers and Medicaid enrollees, considering distance, travel time, the means of transportation ordinarily used by Medicaid enrollees.

(vii) The ability of network providers to communicate with limited English proficient enrollees in their preferred language.

(viii) The ability of network providers to ensure physical access, reasonable accommodations, culturally competent communications, and accessible equipment for Medicaid enrollees with physical or mental disabilities.

(ix) The availability of triage lines or screening systems, as well as the use of telemedicine, e-visits, and/or other evolving and innovative technological solutions.

(2) States developing standards consistent with paragraph (b)(2) of this section must consider the following:

(i) All elements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (ix) of this section.

(ii) Elements that would support an enrollee's choice of provider.

(iii) Strategies that would ensure the health and welfare of the enrollee and support community integration of the enrollee.

(iv) Other considerations that are in the best interest of the enrollees that need LTSS.
