
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart C - Enrollee Rights and Protections
###### § 438.100 Enrollee rights.
####### Specific rights,Basic requirement.

(b)-(1)The State must ensure that each managed care enrollee is guaranteed the rights as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.

(2) An enrollee of an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity has the following rights: The right to-

(i) Receive information in accordance with § 438.10.

(ii) Be treated with respect and with due consideration for his or her dignity and privacy.

(iii) Receive information on available treatment options and alternatives, presented in a manner appropriate to the enrollee's condition and ability to understand. (The information requirements for services that are not covered under the contract because of moral or religious objections are set forth in § 438.10(g)(2)(ii)(A) and (B).)

(iv) Participate in decisions regarding his or her health care, including the right to refuse treatment.

(v) Be free from any form of restraint or seclusion used as a means of coercion, discipline, convenience or retaliation, as specified in other Federal regulations on the use of restraints and seclusion.

(vi) If the privacy rule, as set forth in 45 CFR parts 160 and 164 subparts A and E, applies, request and receive a copy of his or her medical records, and request that they be amended or corrected, as specified in 45 CFR 164.524 and 164.526.

(3) An enrollee of an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP (consistent with the scope of the PAHP's contracted services) has the right to be furnished health care services in accordance with §§ 438.206 through 438.210.
