
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart C - Enrollee Rights and Protections
###### ยง 438.104 Marketing activities.
####### Contract requirements.

(b)Each contract with an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity must comply with the following requirements:

(1) Provide that the entity-

(i) Does not distribute any marketing materials without first obtaining State approval.

(ii) Distributes the materials to its entire service area as indicated in the contract.

(iii) Complies with the information requirements of ยง 438.10 to ensure that, before enrolling, the beneficiary receives, from the entity or the State, the accurate oral and written information he or she needs to make an informed decision on whether to enroll.

(iv) Does not seek to influence enrollment in conjunction with the sale or offering of any private insurance.

(v) Does not, directly or indirectly, engage in door-to-door, telephone, email, texting, or other cold-call marketing activities.

(2) Specify the methods by which the entity ensures the State agency that marketing, including plans and materials, is accurate and does not mislead, confuse, or defraud the beneficiaries or the State agency. Statements that will be considered inaccurate, false, or misleading include, but are not limited to, any assertion or statement (whether written or oral) that-

(i) The beneficiary must enroll in the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity to obtain benefits or to not lose benefits; or

(ii) The MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity is endorsed by CMS, the Federal or State government, or similar entity.
