
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart D - MCO, PIHP and PAHP Standards
###### ยง 438.210 Coverage and authorization of services.
####### Coverage.

(a)Each contract between a State and an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must do the following:

(1) Identify, define, and specify the amount, duration, and scope of each service that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is required to offer.

(2) Require that the services identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section be furnished in an amount, duration, and scope that is no less than the amount, duration, and scope for the same services furnished to beneficiaries under FFS Medicaid, as set forth in ยง 440.230 of this chapter, and for enrollees under the age of 21, as set forth in subpart B of part 441 of this chapter.

(3) Provide that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP-

(i) Must ensure that the services are sufficient in amount, duration, or scope to reasonably achieve the purpose for which the services are furnished.

(ii) May not arbitrarily deny or reduce the amount, duration, or scope of a required service solely because of diagnosis, type of illness, or condition of the beneficiary.

(4) Permit an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP to place appropriate limits on a service-

(i) On the basis of criteria applied under the State plan, such as medical necessity; or

(ii) For the purpose of utilization control, provided that-

(A) The services furnished can reasonably achieve their purpose, as required in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section;

(B) The services supporting individuals with ongoing or chronic conditions or who require long-term services and supports are authorized in a manner that reflects the enrollee's ongoing need for such services and supports; and

(C) Family planning services are provided in a manner that protects and enables the enrollee's freedom to choose the method of family planning to be used consistent with ยง 441.20 of this chapter.

(5) Specify what constitutes "medically necessary services" in a manner that-

(i) Is no more restrictive than that used in the State Medicaid program, including quantitative and non-quantitative treatment limits, as indicated in State statutes and regulations, the State Plan, and other State policy and procedures; and

(ii) Addresses the extent to which the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is responsible for covering services that address:

(A) The prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of an enrollee's disease, condition, and/or disorder that results in health impairments and/or disability.

(B) The ability for an enrollee to achieve age-appropriate growth and development.

(C) The ability for an enrollee to attain, maintain, or regain functional capacity.

(D) The opportunity for an enrollee receiving long-term services and supports to have access to the benefits of community living, to achieve person-centered goals, and live and work in the setting of their choice.
