
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart D - MCO, PIHP and PAHP Standards
###### ยง 438.242 Health information systems.
####### Basic elements of a health information system.

(b)The State must require, at a minimum, that each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP comply with the following:

(1) Section 6504(a) of the Affordable Care Act, which requires that State claims processing and retrieval systems are able to collect data elements necessary to enable the mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systems in operation by the State to meet the requirements of section 1903(r)(1)(F) of the Act.

(2) Collect data on enrollee and provider characteristics as specified by the State, and on all services furnished to enrollees through an encounter data system or other methods as may be specified by the State.

(3) Ensure that data received from providers is accurate and complete by-

(i) Verifying the accuracy and timeliness of reported data, including data from network providers the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is compensating on the basis of capitation payments.

(ii) Screening the data for completeness, logic, and consistency.

(iii) Collecting data from providers in standardized formats to the extent feasible and appropriate, including secure information exchanges and technologies utilized for State Medicaid quality improvement and care coordination efforts.

(4) Make all collected data available to the State and upon request to CMS.

(5) Implement an Application Programming Interface (API) as specified in ยง 431.60 of this chapter as if such requirements applied directly to the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP and include-

(i) All encounter data, including encounter data from any network providers the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is compensating on the basis of capitation payments and adjudicated claims and encounter data from any subcontractors.

(ii) [Reserved]

(6) Implement, by January 1, 2021, and maintain a publicly accessible standards-based API described in ยง 431.70, which must include all information specified in ยง 438.10(h)(1) and (2) of this chapter.
