
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart E - Quality Measurement and Improvement; External Quality Review
###### ยง 438.310 Basis, scope, and applicability.
####### Scope.

(b)This subpart sets forth:

(1) Specifications for a quality assessment and performance improvement program that States must require each contracting MCO, PIHP, and PAHP to implement and maintain.

(2) Requirements for the State review of the accreditation status of all contracting MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs.

(3) Specifications for a Medicaid managed care quality rating system for all States contracting with MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs.

(4) Specifications for a Medicaid managed care quality strategy that States contracting with MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, and PCCM entities (described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) must implement to ensure the delivery of quality health care.

(5) Requirements for annual external quality reviews of each contracting MCO, PIHP, PAHP and PCCM entity (described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) including-

(i) Criteria that States must use in selecting entities to perform the reviews.

(ii) Specifications for the activities related to external quality review.

(iii) Circumstances under which external quality review may use the results of Medicare quality reviews or private accreditation reviews.

(iv) Requirements for making the results of the reviews publicly available.
