
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart E - Quality Measurement and Improvement; External Quality Review
###### ยง 438.330 Quality assessment and performance improvement program.
####### Performance improvement projects.

(d)(1) The State must require that MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs conduct performance improvement projects, including any performance improvement projects required by CMS in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that focus on both clinical and nonclinical areas.

(2) Each performance improvement project must be designed to achieve significant improvement, sustained over time, in health outcomes and enrollee satisfaction, and must include the following elements:

(i) Measurement of performance using objective quality indicators.

(ii) Implementation of interventions to achieve improvement in the access to and quality of care.

(iii) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the interventions based on the performance measures in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(iv) Planning and initiation of activities for increasing or sustaining improvement.

(3) The State must require each MCO, PIHP, and PAHP to report the status and results of each project conducted per paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the State as requested, but not less than once per year.

(4) The State may permit an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP exclusively serving dual eligibles to substitute an MA Organization quality improvement project conducted under ยง 422.152(d) of this chapter for one or more of the performance improvement projects otherwise required under this section.
