
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart E - Quality Measurement and Improvement; External Quality Review
###### § 438.340 Managed care State quality strategy.
####### Elements of the State quality strategy.

(b)At a minimum, the State's quality strategy must include the following:

(1) The State-defined network adequacy and availability of services standards for MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs required by §§ 438.68 and 438.206 and examples of evidence-based clinical practice guidelines the State requires in accordance with § 438.236.

(2) The State's goals and objectives for continuous quality improvement which must be measurable and take into consideration the health status of all populations in the State served by the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity described in § 438.310(c)(2).

(3) A description of-

(i) The quality metrics and performance targets to be used in measuring the performance and improvement of each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity described in § 438.310(c)(2) with which the State contracts, including but not limited to, the performance measures reported in accordance with § 438.330(c). The State must identify which quality measures and performance outcomes the State will publish at least annually on the website required under § 438.10(c)(3); and,

(ii) The performance improvement projects to be implemented in accordance with § 438.330(d), including a description of any interventions the State proposes to improve access, quality, or timeliness of care for beneficiaries enrolled in an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP.

(4) Arrangements for annual, external independent reviews, in accordance with § 438.350, of the quality outcomes and timeliness of, and access to, the services covered under each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, and PCCM entity (described in § 438.310(c)(2)) contract.

(5) A description of the State's transition of care policy required under § 438.62(b)(3).

(6) The State's plan to identify, evaluate, and reduce, to the extent practicable, health disparities based on age, race, ethnicity, sex, primary language, and disability status. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), "disability status" means, at a minimum, whether the individual qualified for Medicaid on the basis of a disability. States must include in this plan the State's definition of disability status and how the State will make the determination that a Medicaid enrollee meets the standard including the data source(s) that the State will use to identify disability status.

(7) For MCOs, appropriate use of intermediate sanctions that, at a minimum, meet the requirements of subpart I of this part.

(8) The mechanisms implemented by the State to comply with § 438.208(c)(1) (relating to the identification of persons who need long-term services and supports or persons with special health care needs).

(9) The information required under § 438.360(c) (relating to nonduplication of EQR activities).

(10) The State's definition of a "significant change" for the purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
