
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart E - Quality Measurement and Improvement; External Quality Review
###### § 438.340 Managed care State quality strategy.
####### Development, evaluation, and revision.

(c)In drafting or revising its quality strategy, the State must:

(1) Make the strategy available for public comment before submitting the strategy to CMS for review, including:

(i) Obtaining input from the Medical Care Advisory Committee (established by § 431.12 of this chapter), beneficiaries, and other stakeholders.

(ii) If the State enrolls Indians in the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity described in § 438.310(c)(2), consulting with Tribes in accordance with the State's Tribal consultation policy.

(2) Review and update the quality strategy as needed, but no less than once every 3 years.

(i) This review must include an evaluation of the effectiveness of the quality strategy conducted within the previous 3 years.

(ii) The State must make the results of the review available on the Web site required under § 438.10(c)(3).

(iii) Updates to the quality strategy must take into consideration the recommendations provided pursuant to § 438.364(a)(4).

(3) Submit to CMS the following:

(i) A copy of the initial strategy for CMS comment and feedback prior to adopting it in final.

(ii) A copy of the revised strategy whenever significant changes, as defined in the state's quality strategy per paragraph (b)(11) of this section, are made to the document, or whenever significant changes occur within the State's Medicaid program.
