
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart F - Grievance and Appeal System
###### ยง 438.400 Statutory basis, definitions, and applicability.
####### Adverse benefit determination

means, in the case of an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, any of the following:

(1) The denial or limited authorization of a requested service, including determinations based on the type or level of service, requirements for medical necessity, appropriateness, setting, or effectiveness of a covered benefit.

(2) The reduction, suspension, or termination of a previously authorized service.

(3) The denial, in whole or in part, of payment for a service. A denial, in whole or in part, of a payment for a service solely because the claim does not meet the definition of a "clean claim" at ยง 447.45(b) of this chapter is not an adverse benefit determination.

(4) The failure to provide services in a timely manner, as defined by the State.

(5) The failure of an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP to act within the timeframes provided in ยง 438.408(b)(1) and (2) regarding the standard resolution of grievances and appeals.

(6) For a resident of a rural area with only one MCO, the denial of an enrollee's request to exercise his or her right, under ยง 438.52(b)(2)(ii), to obtain services outside the network.

(7) The denial of an enrollee's request to dispute a financial liability, including cost sharing, copayments, premiums, deductibles, coinsurance, and other enrollee financial liabilities.
