
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart E - Quality Measurement and Improvement; External Quality Review
###### § 438.364 External quality review results.
####### Information that must be produced.

(a)The State must ensure that the EQR results in an annual detailed technical report that summarizes findings on access and quality of care, including:

(1) A description of the manner in which the data from all activities conducted in accordance with § 438.358 were aggregated and analyzed, and conclusions were drawn as to the quality, timeliness, and access to the care furnished by the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity (described in § 438.310(c)(2)).

(2) For each EQR-related activity conducted in accordance with § 438.358:

(i) Objectives;

(ii) Technical methods of data collection and analysis;

(iii) Description of data obtained, including validated performance measurement data for each activity conducted in accordance with § 438.358(b)(1)(i) and (ii); and

(iv) Conclusions drawn from the data.

(3) An assessment of each MCO's, PIHP's, PAHP's, or PCCM entity's (described in § 438.310(c)(2)) strengths and weaknesses for the quality, timeliness, and access to health care services furnished to Medicaid beneficiaries.

(4) Recommendations for improving the quality of health care services furnished by each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity (described in § 438.310(c)(2)) including how the State can target goals and objectives in the quality strategy, under § 438.340, to better support improvement in the quality, timeliness, and access to health care services furnished to Medicaid beneficiaries.

(5) Methodologically appropriate, comparative information about all MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, and PCCM entities (described in § 438.310(c)(2)), consistent with guidance included in the EQR protocols issued in accordance with § 438.352(e).

(6) An assessment of the degree to which each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, or PCCM entity (described in § 438.310(c)(2)) has addressed effectively the recommendations for quality improvement made by the EQRO during the previous year's EQR.

(7) The names of the MCOs exempt from external quality review by the State, including the beginning date of the current exemption period, or that no MCOs are exempt, as appropriate.
