
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart F - Grievance and Appeal System
###### ยง 438.404 Timely and adequate notice of adverse benefit determination.
####### Content of notice.

(b)The notice must explain the following:

(1) The adverse benefit determination the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP has made or intends to make.

(2) The reasons for the adverse benefit determination, including the right of the enrollee to be provided upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information relevant to the enrollee's adverse benefit determination. Such information includes medical necessity criteria, and any processes, strategies, or evidentiary standards used in setting coverage limits.

(3) The enrollee's right to request an appeal of the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's adverse benefit determination, including information on exhausting the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's one level of appeal described at ยง 438.402(b) and the right to request a State fair hearing consistent with ยง 438.402(c).

(4) The procedures for exercising the rights specified in this paragraph (b).

(5) The circumstances under which an appeal process can be expedited and how to request it.

(6) The enrollee's right to have benefits continue pending resolution of the appeal, how to request that benefits be continued, and the circumstances, consistent with state policy, under which the enrollee may be required to pay the costs of these services.
