
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart H - Additional Program Integrity Safeguards
###### ยง 438.608 Program integrity requirements under the contract.
####### Administrative and management arrangements or procedures to detect and prevent fraud, waste and abuse.

(a)The State, through its contract with the MCO, PIHP or PAHP, must require that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, or subcontractor to the extent that the subcontractor is delegated responsibility by the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP for coverage of services and payment of claims under the contract between the State and the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, implement and maintain arrangements or procedures that are designed to detect and prevent fraud, waste, and abuse. The arrangements or procedures must include the following:

(1) A compliance program that includes, at a minimum, all of the following elements:

(i) Written policies, procedures, and standards of conduct that articulate the organization's commitment to comply with all applicable requirements and standards under the contract, and all applicable Federal and State requirements.

(ii) The designation of a Compliance Officer who is responsible for developing and implementing policies, procedures, and practices designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the contract and who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and the board of directors.

(iii) The establishment of a Regulatory Compliance Committee on the Board of Directors and at the senior management level charged with overseeing the organization's compliance program and its compliance with the requirements under the contract.

(iv) A system for training and education for the Compliance Officer, the organization's senior management, and the organization's employees for the Federal and State standards and requirements under the contract.

(v) Effective lines of communication between the compliance officer and the organization's employees.

(vi) Enforcement of standards through well-publicized disciplinary guidelines.

(vii) Establishment and implementation of procedures and a system with dedicated staff for routine internal monitoring and auditing of compliance risks, prompt response to compliance issues as they are raised, investigation of potential compliance problems as identified in the course of self-evaluation and audits, correction of such problems promptly and thoroughly (or coordination of suspected criminal acts with law enforcement agencies) to reduce the potential for recurrence, and ongoing compliance with the requirements under the contract.

(2) Provision for prompt reporting of all overpayments identified or recovered, specifying the overpayments due to potential fraud, to the State.

(3) Provision for prompt notification to the State when it receives information about changes in an enrollee's circumstances that may affect the enrollee's eligibility including all of the following:

(i) Changes in the enrollee's residence;

(ii) The death of an enrollee.

(4) Provision for notification to the State when it receives information about a change in a network provider's circumstances that may affect the network provider's eligibility to participate in the managed care program, including the termination of the provider agreement with the MCO, PIHP or PAHP.

(5) Provision for a method to verify, by sampling or other methods, whether services that have been represented to have been delivered by network providers were received by enrollees and the application of such verification processes on a regular basis.

(6) In the case of MCOs, PIHPs, or PAHPs that make or receive annual payments under the contract of at least $5,000,000, provision for written policies for all employees of the entity, and of any contractor or agent, that provide detailed information about the False Claims Act and other Federal and State laws described in section 1902(a)(68) of the Act, including information about rights of employees to be protected as whistleblowers.

(7) Provision for the prompt referral of any potential fraud, waste, or abuse that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP identifies to the State Medicaid program integrity unit or any potential fraud directly to the State Medicaid Fraud Control Unit.

(8) Provision for the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's suspension of payments to a network provider for which the State determines there is a credible allegation of fraud in accordance with ยง 455.23 of this chapter.
