
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart I - Sanctions
###### § 438.700 Basis for imposition of sanctions.

(a) Each State that contracts with an MCO must, and each State that contracts with a PCCM or PCCM entity may, establish intermediate sanctions (which may include those specified in § 438.702) that it may impose if it makes any of the determinations specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. The State may base its determinations on findings from onsite surveys, enrollee or other complaints, financial status, or any other source.

(b) A State determines that an MCO acts or fails to act as follows:

(1) Fails substantially to provide medically necessary services that the MCO is required to provide, under law or under its contract with the State, to an enrollee covered under the contract.

(2) Imposes on enrollees premiums or charges that are in excess of the premiums or charges permitted under the Medicaid program.

(3) Acts to discriminate among enrollees on the basis of their health status or need for health care services. This includes termination of enrollment or refusal to reenroll a beneficiary, except as permitted under the Medicaid program, or any practice that would reasonably be expected to discourage enrollment by beneficiaries whose medical condition or history indicates probable need for substantial future medical services.

(4) Misrepresents or falsifies information that it furnishes to CMS or to the State.

(5) Misrepresents or falsifies information that it furnishes to an enrollee, potential enrollee, or health care provider.

(6) Fails to comply with the requirements for physician incentive plans, as set forth (for Medicare) in §§ 422.208 and 422.210 of this chapter.

(c) A State determines that an MCO, PCCM or PCCM entity has distributed directly, or indirectly through any agent or independent contractor, marketing materials that have not been approved by the State or that contain false or materially misleading information.

(d) A State determines that-

(1) An MCO has violated any of the other requirements of sections 1903(m) or 1932 of the Act, or any implementing regulations.

(2) A PCCM or PCCM entity has violated any of the other applicable requirements of sections 1932 or 1905(t)(3) of the Act, or any implementing regulations.

(3) For any of the violations under paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, only the sanctions specified in § 438.702(a)(3), (4), and (5) may be imposed.
