
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 438 - MANAGED CARE
##### Subpart H - Additional Program Integrity Safeguards
###### ยง 438.608 Program integrity requirements under the contract.
####### Treatment of recoveries made by the MCO, PIHP or PAHP of overpayments to providers.

(d)(1) Contracts with a MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must specify:

(i) The retention policies for the treatment of recoveries of all overpayments from the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP to a provider, including specifically the retention policies for the treatment of recoveries of overpayments due to fraud, waste, or abuse.

(ii) The process, timeframes, and documentation required for reporting the recovery of all overpayments.

(iii) The process, timeframes, and documentation required for payment of recoveries of overpayments to the State in situations where the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is not permitted to retain some or all of the recoveries of overpayments.

(iv) This provision does not apply to any amount of a recovery to be retained under False Claims Act cases or through other investigations.

(2) Each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP requires and has a mechanism for a network provider to report to the MCO, PIHP or PAHP when it has received an overpayment, to return the overpayment to the MCO, PIHP or PAHP within 60 calendar days after the date on which the overpayment was identified, and to notify the MCO, PIHP or PAHP in writing of the reason for the overpayment.

(3) Each MCO, PIHP, or P AHP must report annually to the State on their recoveries of overpayments.

(4) The State must use the results of the information and documentation collected in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the report in paragraph (d)(3) of this section for setting actuarially sound capitation rates for each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP consistent with the requirements in ยง 438.4.
