
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Definitions
###### ยง 440.165 Nurse-midwife service.

(a) "Nurse-midwife services" means services that-

(1) Are furnished by a nurse-midwife within the scope of practice authorized by State law or regulation and, in the case of inpatient or outpatient hospital services or clinic services, are furnished by or under the direction of a nurse-midwife to the extent permitted by the facility; and

(2) Unless required by State law or regulations or a facility, are reimbursed without regard to whether the nurse-midwife is under the supervision of, or associated with, a physician or other health care provider. (See ยง 441.21 of this chapter for provisions on independent provider agreements for nurse-midwives.)

(b) "Nurse-midwife" means a registered professional nurse who meets the following requirements:

(1) Is currently licensed to practice in the State as a registered professional nurse.

(2) Is legally authorized under State law or regulations to practice as a nurse-midwife.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, has completed a program of study and clinical experience for nurse-midwives, as specified by the State.

(4) If the State does not specify a program of study and clinical experience that nurse-midwives must complete to practice in that State, meets one of the following conditions:

(i) Is currently certified as a nurse-midwife by the American College of Nurse-Midwives (ACNM or by the ACNM Certification Council, Inc. (ACC).

(ii) Has satisfactorily completed a formal education program (of at least one academic year) that, upon completion qualifies the nurse to take the certification examination offered by the American College of Nurse-Midwives (ACNM) or by the ACNM Certification Council, Inc. (ACC).

(iii) Has successfully completed a formal educational program for preparing registered nurses to furnish gynecological and obstetrical care to women during pregnancy, delivery, and the postpartum period, and care to normal newborns, and was practicing as a nurse-midwife for a total of 12 months during any 18-month period from August 8, 1976 to July 16, 1982.
