
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Definitions
###### ยง 440.169 Case management services.
####### argeted case management services

(b) Tmeans case management services furnished without regard to the requirements of ยง 431.50(b) of this chapter (related to statewide provision of services) and ยง 440.240 (related to comparability). Targeted case management services may be offered to individuals in any defined location of the State or to individuals within targeted groups specified in the State plan.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The assistance that case managers provide in assisting eligible individuals obtain services includes-

(1) Comprehensive assessment and periodic reassessment of individual needs, to determine the need for any medical, educational, social, or other services. These assessment activities include the following:

(i) Taking client history.

(ii) Identifying the needs of the individual, and completing related documentation.

(iii) Gathering information from other sources, such as family members, medical providers, social workers, and educators (if necessary) to form a complete assessment of the eligible individual.

(2) Development (and periodic revision) of a specific care plan based on the information collected through the assessment, that includes the following:

(i) Specifies the goals and actions to address the medical, social, educational, and other services needed by the eligible individual.

(ii) Includes activities such as ensuring the active participation of the eligible individual and working with the individual (or the individual's authorized health care decision maker) and others to develop those goals.

(iii) Identifies a course of action to respond to the assessed needs of the eligible individual.

(3) Referral and related activities (such as scheduling appointments for the individual) to help the eligible individual obtain needed services, including activities that help link the individual with medical, social, and educational providers or other programs and services that are capable of providing needed services to address identified needs and achieve goals specified in the care plan.

(4) Monitoring and follow-up activities, including activities and contacts that are necessary to ensure that the care plan is effectively implemented and adequately addresses the needs of the eligible individual and which may be with the individual, family members, service providers, or other entities or individuals and conducted as frequently as necessary, and including at least one annual monitoring, to help determine whether the following conditions are met:

(i) Services are being furnished in accordance with the individual's care plan.

(ii) Services in the care plan are adequate.

(iii) There are changes in the needs or status of the eligible individual. Monitoring and follow-up activities include making necessary adjustments in the care plan and service arrangements with providers.

(e) Case management may include contacts with non-eligible individuals that are directly related to the identification of the eligible individual's needs and care, for the purposes of helping the eligible individual access services, identifying needs and supports to assist the eligible individual in obtaining services, providing case managers with useful feedback, and alerting case managers to changes in the eligible individual's needs.
