
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Definitions
###### § 440.170 Any other medical care or remedial care recognized under State law and specified by the Secretary.
####### Transportation.

(a)(1) "Transportation" includes expenses for transportation and other related travel expenses determined to be necessary by the agency to secure medical examinations and treatment for a beneficiary.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4), transportation, as defined in this section, is furnished only by a provider to whom a direct vendor payment can appropriately be made by the agency.

(3) "Travel expenses" include-

(i) The cost of transportation for the beneficiary by ambulance, taxicab, common carrier, or other appropriate means;

(ii) The cost of meals and lodging en route to and from medical care, and while receiving medical care; and

(iii) The cost of an attendant to accompany the beneficiary, if necessary, and the cost of the attendant's transportation, meals, lodging, and, if the attendant is not a member of the beneficiary's family, salary.

(4) Non-emergency medical transportation brokerage program. At the option of the State, and notwithstanding § 431.50 (statewide operation) and § 431.51 (freedom of choice of providers) of this chapter and § 440.240 (comparability of services for groups), a State plan may provide for the establishment of a non-emergency medical transportation brokerage program in order to more cost-effectively provide non-emergency medical transportation services for individuals eligible for medical assistance under the State plan who need access to medical care or services, and have no other means of transportation. These transportation services include wheelchair vans, taxis, stretcher cars, bus passes and tickets, secured transportation containing an occupant protection system that addresses safety needs of disabled or special needs individuals, and other forms of transportation otherwise covered under the state plan.

(i) Non-emergency medical transportation services may be provided under contract with individuals or entities that meet the following requirements:

(A) Is selected through a competitive bidding process that is consistent with 45 CFR 75.326 through 75.340 and is based on the State's evaluation of the broker's experience, performance, references, resources, qualifications, and costs.

(B) Has oversight procedures to monitor beneficiary access and complaints and ensure that transportation is timely and that transport personnel are licensed, qualified, competent, and courteous.

(C) Is subject to regular auditing and oversight by the State in order to ensure the quality and timeliness of the transportation services provided and the adequacy of beneficiary access to medical care and services.

(D) Is subject to a written contract that imposes the requirements related to prohibitions on referrals and conflicts of interest described at § 440.170(a)(4)(ii), and provides for the broker to be liable for the full cost of services resulting from a prohibited referral or subcontract.

(ii) Federal financial participation is available at the medical assistance rate for the cost of a written brokerage contract that:

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, prohibits the broker (including contractors, owners, investors, Boards of Directors, corporate officers, and employees) from providing non-emergency medical transportation services or making a referral or subcontracting to a transportation service provider if:
