
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Definitions
###### ยง 440.170 Any other medical care or remedial care recognized under State law and specified by the Secretary.
####### Services furnished in a religious nonmedical health care institution.

(b)Services furnished in a religious nonmedical health care institution are services furnished in an institution that:

(1) Is an institution that is described in (c)(3) of section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxes under section 501(a) of that section.

(2) Is lawfully operated under all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.

(3) Furnishes only nonmedical nursing items and services to patients who choose to rely solely upon a religious method of healing and for whom the acceptance of medical health services would be inconsistent with their religious beliefs.

(4) Furnishes nonmedical items and services exclusively through nonmedical nursing personnel who are experienced in caring for the physical needs of nonmedical patients.

(5) Furnishes these nonmedical items and services to inpatients on a 24-hour basis.

(6) Does not furnish, on the basis of its religious beliefs, through its personnel or otherwise, medical items and services (including any medical screening, examination, diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, or the administration of drugs) for its patients.

(7) Is not owned by, is not under common ownership with, or does not have an ownership interest of 5 percent or more in, a provider of medical treatment or services and is not affiliated with a provider of medical treatment or services or with an individual who has an ownership interest or 5 percent or more in a provider of medical treatment or services. Permissible affiliations are described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(8) Has in effect a utilization review plan that meets the following criteria:

(i) Provides for the review of admissions to the institution, duration of stays, cases of continuous extended duration, and items and services furnished by the institution.

(ii) Requires that the reviews be made by a committee of the institution that included the individuals responsible for overall administration and for supervision of nursing personnel at the institution.

(iii) Provides that records be maintained of the meetings, decisions, and actions of the utilization review committee.

(iv) Meets other requirements as CMS finds necessary to establish an effective utilization review plan.

(9) Provides information CMS may require to implement section 1821 of the Act, including information relating to quality of care and coverage determinations.

(10) Meets other requirements as CMS finds necessary in the interest of the health and safety of patients who receive services in the institution. These requirements are the conditions of participation found at part 403, subpart G of this chapter.
