
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Definitions
###### ยง 440.180 Home and community-based waiver services.
####### Services included.

(2)The agency may include as expanded habilitation services the following services:

(i) Prevocational services, which means services that prepare an individual for paid or unpaid employment and that are not job-task oriented but are, instead, aimed at a generalized result. These services may include, for example, teaching an individual such concepts as compliance, attendance, task completion, problem solving and safety. Prevocational services are distinguishable from noncovered vocational services by the following criteria:

(A) The services are provided to persons who are not expected to be able to join the general work force or participate in a transitional sheltered workshop within one year (excluding supported employment programs).

(B) If the beneficiaries are compensated, they are compensated at less than 50 percent of the minimum wage;

(C) The services include activities which are not primarily directed at teaching specific job skills but at underlying habilitative goals (for example, attention span, motor skills); and

(D) The services are reflected in a plan of care directed to habilitative rather than explicit employment objectives.

(ii) Educational services, which means special education and related services (as defined in sections 602(16) and (17) of the Education of the Handicapped Act) (20 U.S.C. 1401 (16 and 17)) to the extent they are not prohibited under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(iii) Supported employment services, which facilitate paid employment, that are-

(A) Provided to persons for whom competitive employment at or above the minimum wage is unlikely and who, because of their disabilities, need intensive ongoing support to perform in a work setting;

(B) Conducted in a variety of settings, particularly worksites in which persons without disabilities are employed; and

(C) Defined as any combination of special supervisory services, training, transportation, and adaptive equipment that the State demonstrates are essential for persons to engage in paid employment and that are not normally required for nondisabled persons engaged in competitive employment.
