
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Requirements and Limits Applicable to All Services
###### § 440.220 Required services for the medically needy.

(a) A State plan that includes the medically needy must specify that the medically needy are provided, as a minimum, the following services:

(1) Prenatal care and delivery services for pregnant women.

(2) Ambulatory services, as defined in the State plan, for:

(i) Individuals under age 18; and

(ii) Groups of individuals entitled to institutional services.

(3) Home health services (§ 440.70) to any individual entitled to skilled nursing facility services.

(4) If the State plan includes services in an institution for mental diseases (§ 440.140 or § 440.160) or in an intermediate care facility for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities (§ 440.150(c)) for any group of medically needy, either of the following sets of services to each of the medically needy groups:

(i) The services contained in §§ 440.10 through 440.50 and (to the extent nurse-midwives are authorized to practice under State law or regulation) § 440.165; or

(ii) The services contained in any seven of the sections in §§ 440.10 through 440.165.

(5) For women who, while pregnant, applied for, were eligible as medically needy for, and received Medicaid services under the plan, services under the plan that are pregnancy-related (as defined in § 440.210(a)(2)(i) of this subpart) for an extended postpartum period. The postpartum period begins on the last day of pregnancy and extends through the end of the month in which the 60-day period following termination of pregnancy ends.

(b) A State plan must specify that eligible aliens as defined in §§ 435.406(a) and 436.406(a) of this subchapter will receive at least the services provided in paragraphs (a)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(c) A State plan must specify that aliens defined in §§ 435.406(b), 435.406(c), 436.406(b) and 436.406(c) of this subchapter will only be provided the limited services specified in § 440.255.
