
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Requirements and Limits Applicable to All Services
###### § 440.210 Required services for the categorically needy.

(a) A State plan must specify that, at a minimum, categorically needy beneficiaries are furnished the following services:

(1) The services defined in §§ 440.10 through 440.50, 440.70, and (to the extent nurse-midwives and nurse practitioners are authorized to practice under State law or regulation) the services defined in §§ 440.165 and 440.166, respectively.

(2) Pregnancy-related services and services for other conditions that might complicate the pregnancy.

(i) Pregnancy-related services are those services that are necessary for the health of the pregnant woman and fetus, or that have become necessary as a result of the woman having been pregnant. These include, but are not limited to, prenatal care, delivery, postpartum care, and family planning services.

(ii) Services for other conditions that might complicate the pregnancy include those for diagnoses, illnesses, or medical conditions which might threaten the carrying of the fetus to full term or the safe delivery of the fetus; and

(3) For women who, while pregnant, applied for, were eligible for, and received Medicaid services under the plan, all services under the plan that are pregnancy-related for an extended postpartum period. The postpartum period begins on the last day of pregnancy and extends through the end of the month in which the 60-day period following termination of pregnancy ends.

(b) A State plan must specify that eligible aliens as defined in §§ 435.406(a) and 436.406(a) of this subchapter will receive at least the services provided in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) A State plan must specify that aliens not defined in §§ 435.406(a) and 436.406(a) of this subchapter will only be provided the limited services specified in § 440.255.
