
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C - Benchmark Benefit and Benchmark-Equivalent Coverage
###### ยง 440.315 Exempt individuals.

Individuals within one (or more) of the following categories are exempt from mandatory enrollment in an Alternative Benefit Plan, unless the individuals are eligible under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Act. Individuals in that eligibility group who meet the conditions for exemption must be given the option of an Alternative Benefit Plan that includes all benefits available under the approved State plan.

(a) The individual is a pregnant woman who is required to be covered under the State plan under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i) of the Act.

(b) The individual qualifies for medical assistance under the State plan on the basis of being blind or disabled (or being treated as being blind or disabled) without regard to whether the individual is eligible for Supplemental Security Income benefits under title XVI on the basis of being blind or disabled and including an individual who is eligible for medical assistance on the basis of section 1902(e)(3) of the Act.

(c) The individual is entitled to benefits under any part of Medicare.

(d) The individual is terminally ill and is receiving benefits for hospice care under title XIX.

(e) The individual is an inpatient in a hospital, nursing facility, intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual disabilities, or other medical institution, and is required, as a condition of receiving services in that institution under the State plan, to spend for costs of medical care all but a minimal amount of the individual's income required for personal needs.

(f) The individual is medically frail or otherwise an individual with special medical needs. For these purposes, the State's definition of individuals who are medically frail or otherwise have special medical needs must at least include those individuals described in ยง 438.50(d)(3) of this chapter, individuals with disabling mental disorders (including children with serious emotional disturbances and adults with serious mental illness), individuals with chronic substance use disorders, individuals with serious and complex medical conditions, individuals with a physical, intellectual or developmental disability that significantly impairs their ability to perform 1 or more activities of daily living, or individuals with a disability determination based on Social Security criteria or in States that apply more restrictive criteria than the Supplemental Security Income program, the State plan criteria.

(g) The individual qualifies based on medical condition for medical assistance for long-term care services described in section 1917(c)(1)(C) of the Act.

(h) The individual is eligible and enrolled for Medicaid under ยง 435.145 of this chapter based on current eligibility for assistance under title IV-E of the Act or under ยง 435.150 of this chapter based on current status as a former foster care child.

(i) The individual is a parent or caretaker relative whom the State is required to cover under section 1931 of the Act.

(j) The individual is a woman who is receiving medical assistance by virtue of the application of sections 1902(a)(10)(ii)(XVIII) and 1902(aa) of the Act.

(k) The individual qualifies for medical assistance on the basis of section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(XII) of the Act.

(l) The individual is only covered by Medicaid for care and services necessary for the treatment of an emergency medical condition in accordance with section 1903(v) of the Act.

(m) The individual is determined eligible as medically needy or eligible because of a reduction of countable income based on costs incurred for medical or other remedial care under section 1902(f) of the Act or otherwise based on incurred medical costs.
