
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 440 - SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C - Benchmark Benefit and Benchmark-Equivalent Coverage
###### ยง 440.340 Actuarial report for benchmark-equivalent coverage.

(a) A State plan amendment that would provide for benchmark-equivalent health benefits coverage described in ยง 440.335, must include an actuarial report. The actuarial report must contain an actuarial opinion that the benchmark-equivalent health benefits coverage meets the actuarial requirements set forth in ยง 440.335. The report must also specify the benchmark coverage used for comparison.

(b) The actuarial report must state that it was prepared according to the following requirements:

(1) By an individual who is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries (AAA).

(2) Using generally accepted actuarial principles and methodologies of the AAA.

(3) Using a standardized set of utilization and price factors.

(4) Using a standardized population that is representative of the population involved.

(5) Applying the same principles and factors in comparing the value of different coverage (or categories of services).

(6) Without taking into account any differences in coverage based on the method of delivery or means of cost control or utilization used.

(7) Taking into account the ability of the State to reduce benefits by considering the increase in actuarial value of health benefits coverage offered under the State plan that results from the limitations on cost sharing (with the exception of premiums) under that coverage.

(c) The actuary preparing the opinion must select and specify the standardized set of factors and the standardized population to be used in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.

(d) The State must provide sufficient detail to explain the basis of the methodologies used to estimate the actuarial value or, if requested by CMS, to replicate the State's result.
