
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 441.13 Prohibitions on FFP: Institutionalized individuals.

(a) FFP is not available in expenditures for services for-

(1) Any individual who is in a public institution, as defined in ยง 435.1010 of this chapter; or

(2) Any individual who is under age 65 and is in an institution for mental diseases, except an individual who is under age 22 and receiving inpatient psychiatric services under subpart D of this part.

(b) With the exception of active treatment services (as defined in ยง 483.440(a) of this chapter for residents of ICFs/IID and in ยง 441.154 for individuals under age 21 receiving inpatient psychiatric services), payments to institutions for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities or persons with related conditions and to psychiatric facilities or programs providing inpatient psychiatric services to individuals under age 21 may not include reimbursement for formal educational services or for vocational services. Formal educational services relate to training in traditional academic subjects. Subject matter rather than setting, time of day, or class size determines whether a service is educational. Traditional academic subjects include, but are not limited to, science, history, literature, foreign languages, and mathematics. Vocational services relate to organized programs that are directly related to the preparation of individuals for paid or unpaid employment. An example of vocational services is time-limited vocational training provided as a part of a regularly scheduled class available to the general public.

(c) FFP is not available in expenditures for services furnished by an organ procurement organization on or after April 1, 1988, that does not meet the requirements of part 486 subpart G of this chapter.
