
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 441.16 Home health agency requirements for surety bonds; Prohibition on FFP.
####### Authorized Surety and exclusion of surety companies.

(f)An HHA may obtain a surety bond required under this section only from an authorized Surety.

(1) An authorized Surety is a surety company that-

(i) Has been issued a Certificate of Authority by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9304 to 9308 and 31 CFR parts 223, 224, and 225 as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds and the Certificate has neither expired nor been revoked;

(ii) Has not been determined by the Medicaid agency to be an unauthorized Surety for the purpose of an HHA obtaining a surety bond under this section; and

(iii) Meets other conditions, as specified by the Medicaid agency.

(2) The Medicaid agency may determine that a surety company is an unauthorized Surety under this section-

(i) If, upon request by the Medicaid agency, the surety company fails to furnish timely confirmation of the issuance of, and the validity and accuracy of information appearing on, a surety bond that an HHA presents to the Medicaid agency that shows the surety company as Surety on the bond;

(ii) If, upon presentation by the Medicaid agency to the surety company of a request for payment on a surety bond and of sufficient evidence to establish the surety company's liability on the bond, the surety company fails to timely pay the Medicaid agency in full the amount requested up to the face amount of the bond; or

(iii) For other good cause.

(3) The Medicaid agency must specify the manner by which public notification of a determination under paragraph (f)(2) of this section is given and the effective date of the determination.

(4) A determination by the Medicaid agency that a surety company is an unauthorized Surety under paragraph (f)(2) of this section-

(i) Has effect only within the State; and

(ii) Is not a debarment, suspension, or exclusion for the purposes of Executive Order No. 12549 (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189).
