
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 441.16 Home health agency requirements for surety bonds; Prohibition on FFP.
####### Additional requirements of the surety bond.

(h)The surety bond that an HHA obtains under this section must meet the following additional requirements:

(1) The bond must guarantee that, upon written demand by the Medicaid agency to the Surety for payment under the bond and the Medicaid agency furnishing to the Surety sufficient evidence to establish the Surety's liability under the bond, the Surety will timely pay the Medicaid agency the amount so demanded, up to the stated amount of the bond.

(2) The bond must provide that the Surety is liable for uncollected overpayments, as defined in paragraph (a), provided such uncollected overpayments are determined during the term of the bond and regardless of when the overpayments took place. Further, the bond must provide that the Surety remains liable if the HHA fails to furnish a subsequent annual bond that meets the requirements of this subpart or fails to furnish a rider for a year for which a rider is required to be submitted, or if the HHA's provider agreement terminates and that the Surety's liability shall be based on the last bond or rider in effect for the HHA, which shall then remain in effect for an additional 2-year period.

(3) The bond must provide that the Surety's liability to the Medicaid agency is not extinguished by any of the following:

(i) Any action by the HHA or the Surety to terminate or limit the scope or term of the bond. The Surety's liability may be extinguished, however, when-

(A) The Surety furnishes the Medicaid agency with notice of such action not later than 10 days after receiving notice from the HHA of action by the HHA to terminate or limit the scope of the bond, or not later than 60 days before the effective date of such action by the Surety; or

(B) The HHA furnishes the Medicaid agency with a new bond that meets the requirements of both this section and the Medicaid agency.

(ii) The Surety's failure to continue to meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section or the Medicaid agency's determination that the surety company is an unauthorized surety under paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(iii) Termination of the HHA's provider agreement described under ยง 431.107 of this subchapter.

(iv) Any action by the Medicaid agency to suspend, offset, or otherwise recover payments to the HHA.

(v) Any action by the HHA to-

(A) Cease operation;

(B) Sell or transfer any assets or ownership interest;

(C) File for bankruptcy; or

(D) Fail to pay the Surety.

(vi) Any fraud, misrepresentation, or negligence by the HHA in obtaining the surety bond or by the Surety (or by the Surety's agent, if any) in issuing the surety bond, except that any fraud, misrepresentation, or negligence by the HHA in identifying to the Surety (or to the Surety's agent) the amount of Medicaid payments upon which the amount of the surety bond is determined shall not cause the Surety's liability to the Medicaid agency to exceed the amount of the bond.

(vii) The HHA's failure to exercise available appeal rights under Medicaid or to assign such rights to the Surety (provided the Medicaid agency permits such rights to be assigned).

(4) The bond must provide that actions under the bond may be brought by the Medicaid agency or by an agent that the Medicaid agency designates.
