
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment (EPSDT) of Individuals Under Age 21
###### § 441.60 Continuing care.
####### Continuing care provider.

(a)For purposes of this subpart, a continuing care provider means a provider who has an agreement with the Medicaid agency to provide reports as required under paragraph (b) of this section and to provide at least the following services to eligible EPSDT beneficiaries formally enrolled with the provider:

(1) With the exception of dental services required under § 441.56, screening, diagnosis, treatment, and referral for follow-up services as required under this subpart.

(2) Maintenance of the beneficiary's consolidated health history, including information received from other providers.

(3) Physicians' services as needed by the beneficiary for acute, episodic or chronic illnesses or conditions.

(4) At the provider's option, provision of dental services required under § 441.56 or direct referral to a dentist to provide dental services required under § 441.56(b)(1)(vi). The provider must specify in the agreement whether dental services or referral for dental services are provided. If the provider does not choose to provide either service, then the provider must refer beneficiaries to the agency to obtain those dental services required under § 441.56.

(5) At the provider's option, provision of all or part of the transportation and scheduling assistance as required under § 441.62. The provider must specify in the agreement the transportation and scheduling assistance to be furnished. If the provider does not choose to provide some or all of the assistance, then the provider must refer beneficiaries to the agency to obtain the transportation and scheduling assistance required under § 441.62.
