
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Individuals Under Age 21 in Psychiatric Facilities or Programs
###### ยง 441.156 Team developing individual plan of care.

(a) The individual plan of care under ยง 441.155 must be developed by an interdisciplinary team of physicians and other personnel who are employed by, or provide services to patients in, the facility.

(b) Based on education and experience, preferably including competence in child psychiatry, the team must be capable of-

(1) Assessing the beneficiary's immediate and long-range therapeutic needs, developmental priorities, and personal strengths and liabilities;

(2) Assessing the potential resources of the beneficiary's family;

(3) Setting treatment objectives; and

(4) Prescribing therapeutic modalities to achieve the plan's objectives.

(c) The team must include, as a minimum, either-

(1) A Board-eligible or Board-certified psychiatrist;

(2) A clinical psychologist who has a doctoral degree and a physician licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy; or

(3) A physician licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy with specialized training and experience in the diagnosis and treatment of mental diseases, and a psychologist who has a master's degree in clinical psychology or who has been certified by the State or by the State psychological association.

(d) The team must also include one of the following:

(1) A psychiatric social worker.

(2) A registered nurse with specialized training or one year's experience in treating mentally ill individuals.

(3) An occupational therapist who is licensed, if required by the State, and who has specialized training or one year of experience in treating mentally ill individuals.

(4) A psychologist who has a master's degree in clinical psychology or who has been certified by the State or by the State psychological association.
