
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Home and Community-Based Services: Waiver Requirements
###### ยง 441.301 Contents of request for a waiver.
####### The Person-Centered Service Plan.

(2)The person-centered service plan must reflect the services and supports that are important for the individual to meet the needs identified through an assessment of functional need, as well as what is important to the individual with regard to preferences for the delivery of such services and supports. Commensurate with the level of need of the individual, and the scope of services and supports available under the State's 1915(c) HCBS waiver, the written plan must:

(i) Reflect that the setting in which the individual resides is chosen by the individual. The State must ensure that the setting chosen by the individual is integrated in, and supports full access of individuals receiving Medicaid HCBS to the greater community, including opportunities to seek employment and work in competitive integrated settings, engage in community life, control personal resources, and receive services in the community to the same degree of access as individuals not receiving Medicaid HCBS.

(ii) Reflect the individual's strengths and preferences.

(iii) Reflect clinical and support needs as identified through an assessment of functional need.

(iv) Include individually identified goals and desired outcomes.

(v) Reflect the services and supports (paid and unpaid) that will assist the individual to achieve identified goals, and the providers of those services and supports, including natural supports. Natural supports are unpaid supports that are provided voluntarily to the individual in lieu of 1915(c) HCBS waiver services and supports.

(vi) Reflect risk factors and measures in place to minimize them, including individualized back-up plans and strategies when needed.

(vii) Be understandable to the individual receiving services and supports, and the individuals important in supporting him or her. At a minimum, for the written plan to be understandable, it must be written in plain language and in a manner that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and persons who are limited English proficient, consistent with ยง 435.905(b) of this chapter.

(viii) Identify the individual and/or entity responsible for monitoring the plan.

(ix) Be finalized and agreed to, with the informed consent of the individual in writing, and signed by all individuals and providers responsible for its implementation.

(x) Be distributed to the individual and other people involved in the plan.

(xi) Include those services, the purpose or control of which the individual elects to self-direct.

(xii) Prevent the provision of unnecessary or inappropriate services and supports.

(xiii) Document that any modification of the additional conditions, under paragraph (c)(4)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section, must be supported by a specific assessed need and justified in the person-centered service plan. The following requirements must be documented in the person-centered service plan:

(A) Identify a specific and individualized assessed need.

(B) Document the positive interventions and supports used prior to any modifications to the person-centered service plan.

(C) Document less intrusive methods of meeting the need that have been tried but did not work.

(D) Include a clear description of the condition that is directly proportionate to the specific assessed need.

(E) Include a regular collection and review of data to measure the ongoing effectiveness of the modification.

(F) Include established time limits for periodic reviews to determine if the modification is still necessary or can be terminated.

(G) Include informed consent of the individual.

(H) Include an assurance that interventions and supports will cause no harm to the individual.
