
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Home and Community-Based Services: Waiver Requirements
###### § 441.301 Contents of request for a waiver.

(a) A request for a waiver under this section must consist of the following:

(1) The assurances required by § 441.302 and the supporting documentation required by § 441.303.

(2) When applicable, requests for waivers of the requirements of section 1902(a)(1), section 1902(a)(10)(B), or section 1902(a)(10)(C)(i)(III) of the Act, which concern respectively, statewide application of Medicaid, comparability of services, and income and resource rules applicable to medically needy individuals living in the community.

(3) A statement explaining whether the agency will refuse to offer home or community-based services to any beneficiary if the agency can reasonably expect that the cost of the services would exceed the cost of an equivalent level of care provided in-

(i) A hospital (as defined in § 440.10 of this chapter);

(ii) A NF (as defined in section 1919(a) of the Act); or

(iii) An ICF/IID (as defined in § 440.150 of this chapter), if applicable.

(b) If the agency furnishes home and community-based services, as defined in § 440.180 of this subchapter, under a waiver granted under this subpart, the waiver request must-

(1) Provide that the services are furnished-

(i) Under a written person-centered service plan (also called plan of care) that is based on a person-centered approach and is subject to approval by the Medicaid agency.

(ii) Only to beneficiaries who are not inpatients of a hospital, NF, or ICF/IID; and

(iii) Only to beneficiaries who the agency determines would, in the absence of these services, require the Medicaid covered level of care provided in-

(A) A hospital (as defined in § 440.10 of this chapter);

(B) A NF (as defined in section 1919(a) of the Act); or

(C) An ICF/IID (as defined in § 440.150 of this chapter);

(2) Describe the qualifications of the individual or individuals who will be responsible for developing the individual plan of care;

(3) Describe the group or groups of individuals to whom the services will be offered;

(4) Describe the services to be furnished so that each service is separately defined. Multiple services that are generally considered to be separate services may not be consolidated under a single definition. Commonly accepted terms must be used to describe the service and definitions may not be open ended in scope. CMS will, however, allow combined service definitions (bundling) when this will permit more efficient delivery of services and not compromise either a beneficiary's access to or free choice of providers.

(5) Provide that the documentation requirements regarding individual evaluation, specified in § 441.303(c), will be met; and

(6) Be limited to one or more of the following target groups or any subgroup thereof that the State may define:

(i) Aged or disabled, or both.

(ii) Individuals with Intellectual or Developmental Disabilities, or both.

(iii) Mentally ill.

(c) A waiver request under this subpart must include the following-
