
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Home and Community-Based Services Waivers for Individuals Age 65 or Older: Waiver Requirements
###### ยง 441.355 Duration, extension, and amendment of a waiver.
####### Effective dates and extension periods.

(a)(1) The effective date for a waiver of Medicaid requirements to furnish home and community-based services to individuals age 65 or older under this subpart is established by CMS prospectively on the first day of the FFY following the date on which the waiver is approved.

(2) The initial waiver is approved for a 3-year period from the effective date. Subsequent renewals are approved for 5-year periods.

(3) If the agency requests it, the waiver may be extended for an additional 5-year period if CMS's review of the prior period shows that the assurances required by ยง 441.352 were met.

(4) The agency may request that waiver modifications be made effective retroactive to the first day of the waiver year in which the amendment is submitted, unless the amendment involves substantive change. Substantive changes may include, but are not limited to, addition of services under the waiver, a change in the qualifications of service providers, or a change in the eligible population.

(5) A request for an amendment that involves a substantive change is given a prospective effective date, but this date need not coincide with the start of the next FFY.
