
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Home and Community-Based Services Waivers for Individuals Age 65 or Older: Waiver Requirements
###### ยง 441.365 Periodic evaluation, assessment, and review.
####### Other information considered by review team.

(i)When making determinations, under paragraph (h) of this section, for each beneficiary, the review team must consider the following information and may consider other information as it deems necessary:

(1) Whether the medical record, the determination of level of care, and the plan of care are consistent, and whether all ordered services have been furnished and properly recorded.

(2) Whether physician review of prescribed psychotropic medications (when required for behavior control) has occurred at least every 30 days.

(3) Whether tests or observations of each beneficiary indicated by his or her medical record are made at appropriate times and properly recorded.

(4) Whether progress notes entered in the record by formal and informal caregivers are made as required and appear to be consistent with the observed condition of the beneficiary.

(5) Whether reevaluations of the beneficiary's level of care have occurred at least as frequently as would be required if that individual were served in a NF.

(6) Whether the beneficiary receives adequate care and services, based, at a minimum, on the following when observations are necessary (the requirements for the necessity of observations are set forth in new ยง 441.365(g)(3)):

(i) Cleanliness.

(ii) Absence of bedsores.

(iii) Absence of signs of malnutrition or dehydration.

(7) Whether the beneficiary needs any service that is not included in the plan of care, or if included, is not being furnished by formal or informal caregivers under the waiver or through arrangements with another public or private source of assistance.

(8) Determination as to whether continued home and community-based services are required by the beneficiary to avoid the likelihood of placement in a NF.
