
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Optional Self-Directed Personal Assistance Services Program
###### ยง 441.464 State assurances.
####### Support system.

(d)States must provide, or arrange for the provision of, a support system that meets the following conditions:

(1) Appropriately assesses and counsels an individual, or the individual's representative, if applicable, before enrollment, including information about disenrollment.

(2) Provides appropriate information, counseling, training, and assistance to ensure that a participant is able to manage the services and budgets. Such information must be communicated to the participant in a manner and language understandable by the participant. The support activities must include at least the following:

(i) Person-centered planning and how it is applied.

(ii) Information about the services available for self-direction.

(iii) Range and scope of individual choices and options.

(iv) Process for changing the service plan and service budget.

(v) Grievance process.

(vi) Risks and responsibilities of self-direction.

(vii) The ability to freely choose from available PAS providers.

(viii) Individual rights.

(ix) Reassessment and review schedules.

(x) Defining goals, needs, and preferences.

(xi) Identifying and accessing services, supports, and resources.

(xii) Development of risk management agreements.

(xiii) Development of an individualized backup plan.

(xiv) Recognizing and reporting critical events.

(xv) Information about an advocate or advocacy systems available in the State and how a participant, or a participant's representative, if applicable, can access the advocate or advocacy systems.

(3) Offers additional information, counseling, training, or assistance, including financial management services under either of the following conditions:

(i) At the request of the participant, or participant's representative, if applicable, for any reason.

(ii) When the State has determined the participant, or participant's representative, if applicable, is not effectively managing the services identified in the service plan or budget.

(4) The State may mandate the use of additional assistance, including the use of a financial management entity, or may initiate an involuntary disenrollment in accordance with ยง 441.458, if, after additional information, counseling, training or assistance is provided to a participant (or participant's representative, if applicable), the participant (or participant's representative, if applicable) has continued to demonstrate an inability to effectively manage the services and budget.
