
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Optional Self-Directed Personal Assistance Services Program
###### ยง 441.464 State assurances.
####### Notification of feasible alternatives.

(c)Individuals who are likely to require personal care under the State plan, or home and community-based services under a section 1915(c) waiver program are informed of the feasible alternatives, if available, under the State's self-directed PAS State plan option, at the choice of these individuals, to the provision of personal care services under the State plan, or PAS under a section 1915(c) home and community-based services waiver program. Information on feasible alternatives must be communicated to the individual in a manner and language understandable by the individual. Such information includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(1) Information about self-direction opportunities that is sufficient to inform decision-making about the election of self-direction and provided on a timely basis to an individual or the representative which minimally includes the following:

(i) Elements of self-direction compared to non-self-directed PAS.

(ii) Individual responsibilities and potential liabilities under the self-direction service delivery model.

(iii) The choice to receive PAS through a waiver program administered under section 1915(c) of the Act, regardless of delivery system, if applicable.

(iv) The option, if available, to receive and manage the cash amount of their individual budget allocation.

(2) When and how this information is provided.
