
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Optional Self-Directed Personal Assistance Services Program
###### ยง 441.470 Service budget elements.

A service budget must be developed and approved by the State based on the assessment of need and service plan and must include the following:

(a) The specific dollar amount a participant may utilize for services and supports.

(b) How the participant is informed of the amount of the service budget before the service plan is finalized.

(c) The procedures for how the participant, or participant's representative, if applicable, may adjust the budget, including the following:

(1) How the participant, or participant's representative, if applicable, may freely make changes to the budget.

(2) The circumstances, if any, that may require prior approval before a budget adjustment is made.

(3) The circumstances, if any, that may require a change in the service plan.

(d) The procedure(s) that governs how a person, at the election of the State, may reserve funds to purchase items that increase independence or substitute for human assistance, to the extent that expenditures would otherwise be made for the human assistance, including additional goods, supports, services or supplies.

(e) The procedure(s) that governs how a person may use a discretionary amount, if applicable, to purchase items not otherwise delineated in the budget or reserved for permissible purchases.

(f) How participants, or their representative, if applicable, are afforded the opportunity to request a fair hearing under ยง 441.300 if a participant's, or participant's representative, if applicable, request for a budget adjustment is denied or the amount of the budget is reduced.
