
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Optional Self-Directed Personal Assistance Services Program
###### ยง 441.484 Financial management services.

(a) States may choose to provide financial management services to participants, or their representatives, as applicable, self-directing PAS, with the exception of those participants utilizing the cash option who directly perform those functions, utilizing a financial management entity, through the following arrangements:

(1) States may use a reporting or subagent through its fiscal intermediary in accordance with section 3504 of the IRS Code and Revenue Procedure 80-4 and Notice 2003-70; or

(2) States may use a vendor organization that has the capabilities to perform the required tasks in accordance with Section 3504 of the IRS Code and Revenue Procedure 70-6. When private entities furnish financial management services, the procurement method must meet the requirements set forth in 45 CFR 75.326 through 75.340.

(b) States must provide oversight of financial management services by performing the following functions:

(1) Monitoring and assessing the performance of financial management entity, including assuring the integrity of financial transactions they perform.

(2) Designating a State entity or entities responsible for this monitoring.

(3) Determining how frequently financial management entity performance will be assessed.

(c) A financial management entity must provide functions including, but not limited to, the following:

(1) Collect and process timesheets of the participant's workers.

(2) Process payroll, withholding, filing and payment of applicable Federal, State and local employment-related taxes and insurance.

(3) Maintain a separate account for each participant's budget.

(4) Track and report disbursements and balances of participant funds.

(5) Process and pay invoices for goods and services approved in the service plan.

(6) Provide to participants periodic reports of expenditures and the status of the approved service budget.

(d) States not utilizing a financial management entity must perform the functions listed in paragraph (c) of this section on behalf of participants self-directing PAS, with the exception of those participants utilizing the cash option who directly perform those functions.

(e) States will be reimbursed for the cost of financial management services, either provided directly or through a financial management entity, at the administrative rate of 50 percent.
