
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 57 - GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TEACHING FACILITIES, EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS, SCHOLARSHIPS AND STUDENT LOANS
##### Subpart C - Health Professions Student Loans
###### ยง 57.210 Repayment and collection of health professions student loans.
####### 3

() Is a full-time educational program in public health, health administration, or a health care discipline directly related to the health profession for which the borrower received the loan.

(3) To receive a deferment, a borrower must, no later than 30 days prior to the onset of the activity (or no later than 30 days prior to the due date of the first payment if the borrower begins the activity during the grace period), and annually thereafter, provide the lending school with evidence of his or her status in the deferrable activity, and evidence that verifies deferment eligibility of the activity. This evidence must include certification by the Program Director or other authorized official that the borrower's activity meets the deferment requirements. The borrower must also notify the school upon completion or termination of the activity. It is the responsibility of the borrower to provide the lending school with all required information or other information regarding the requested deferment. The school may deny a request for deferment if it is not filed in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a borrower must establish a repayment schedule with the school providing for payments not less often than quarterly. Any borrower whose repayment is delinquent more than 60 days must establish a monthly repayment schedule with the school. However, a borrower may at his or her option and without penalty, prepay all or part of the principal and accrued interest at any time.

(5) A school may grant forbearance whenever extraordinary circumstances such as unemployment, poor health or other personal problems temporarily affect the borrower's ability to make scheduled loan repayments.

(b)(1) Each school at which a fund is established must exercise due diligence in the collection of health professions student loans due the fund. In the exercise of due diligence, a school must follow procedures which are at least as extensive and effective as those used in the collection of other student loan accounts due the school, and must use the steps outlined below in accordance with collection practices which are generally accepted among institutions of higher education:

(i) Conduct and document an entrance interview (individually or in groups) with the borrower prior to disbursing HPSL funds in an academic year. During the entrance interview the school must obtain documentation which indicates that the borrower is aware of the rights and responsibilities associated with HPSL funds and personal information which would assist in locating the borrower if he or she fails to keep the school informed of his or her current address. The requirements of this subparagraph may be met by correspondence, if the school determines that a face-to-face meeting (individually or in groups) is impracticable.

(ii) Conduct and document an exit interview (individually or in groups) with the borrower. During the exit interview, the school must provide each borrower with information necessary to carry out the terms of repayment, remind the borrower of the rights and responsibilities associated with HPSL funds, and update the personal information collected prior to disbursing HPSL funds which would assist in locating the borrower if he or she fails to keep the school informed of his or her current address. If the borrower terminates studies without advance notice, the school must document attempts to inform the borrower of the substance of the exit interview and to secure exit interview information from the borrower by mail.

(iii) Notify the borrower in writing of the impending repayment obligation at least twice during the grace period;

(iv) Notify a borrower who is in deferment status in writing of the impending repayment obligation 1 to 3 months prior to the expiration of the approved period of deferment;

(v) Perform regular billing;

(vi) Follow up past due payments with a series of at least four documented and reasonably spaced attempts to contact the borrower, at least three of which must be in writing at not more than 30-day intervals, prior to the loan becoming 120 days past due, provided that the school has a current address for the borrower;

(vii) Perform address searches when necessary;

(viii) Use collection agents, which may include the use of an internal collection agent;

(ix) Institute legal proceedings against borrowers after all other attempts at collection have failed, unless the school determines, subject to the approval of the Secretary, that such litigation would not be cost-effective; and

(x) Become a member of a credit bureau and notify the credit bureau of accounts past due by more than 120 days.
