
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 57 - GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TEACHING FACILITIES, EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS, SCHOLARSHIPS AND STUDENT LOANS
##### Subpart C - Health Professions Student Loans
###### ยง 57.210 Repayment and collection of health professions student loans.
####### Late charge.

(2)(i) For any health professions student loan made after June 30, 1969, but prior to October 22, 1985, the school may fix a charge for failure of the borrower to pay all or any part of an installment when it is due and, in the case of a borrower who is entitled to deferment under section 722(c) of the Act for any failure to file timely and satisfactory evidence of the entitlement. The amount of the charge may not exceed $1 for the first month or part of a month by which the installment or evidence is late and $2 for each succeeding month or part of a month. The school may elect to add the amount of this charge to the principal amount of the loan as of the day after the day on which the installment or evidence was due, or to make the amount of the charge payable to the school no later than the due date of the next installment following receipt of the notice of the charge by the borrower.

(ii) For any health professions student loan made on or after October 22, 1985, the school shall assess a charge for failure of the borrower to pay all or any part of an installment when the loan is more than 60 days past due and, in the case of a borrower who is entitled to deferment under section 722(c) of the Act, for any failure to file satisfactory evidence of the entitlement within 60 days of the date payment would otherwise be due. No charge may be made if the loan is less than 61 days past due. The amount of this charge may not exceed an amount equal to 6 percent of the amount due at the time the charge is calculated. The school may elect to add the amount of this charge to the principal amount of the loan as of the day on which the charge is calculated, or to make the amount of the charge payable to the school no later than the due date of the next installment following receipt of the notice of the charge by the borrower.

(3) With respect to any health professions student loan made after June 30, 1969, the school may require the borrower to make payments of at least $15 per month on all outstanding health professions student loans during the repayment period.

(4) A school must, on an annual basis, review and assess the collectibility of any loan more than 3 years past due. If the school determines that the prospects of future collection are promising enough to justify periodic review of the debt, and neither the statute of limitations nor the 10-year repayment period has expired, the school may retain the account for continued collections, provided that it makes an attempt at least semi-annually to collect from the borrower. When the due diligence procedures required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section have been exhausted, the school is responsible for determining the collection methods it will use for the semi-annual collection effort required on these loans. If the school determines that the prospects of future collection are not promising, or when the statute of limitations or the 10-year repayment period has expired, the loan must be considered uncollectible. A school may determine a loan to be uncollectible sooner than 3 years past due when it has evidence that the loan cannot be collected, but in no case should a school consider a loan as uncollectible if it has not been in default for a least 120 days. A school is not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4) (i) and (iii) of this section for loans that became uncollectible, as determined by the school, before August 1, 1985.

(i) A school must request permission to write off an uncollectible loan within 30 days of the determination that it is uncollectible or reimburse the fund in the full amount of the loan, pursuant to ยง 57.210(b)(4)(iii). The 30-day period for submitting the loan for write-off review begins on the date that the determination of uncollectibility is made, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section. In any instance where the Secretary determines that a school has failed to exercise due diligence in the collection of a loan, in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, the school will be required to place in the fund the full amount of principal, interest, and penalty charges that remains uncollected on the loan. Reimbursement must be made by the following June 30 or December 31, whichever is sooner, except that in no case will a school be required to reimburse the fund in less than 30 days following the Secretary's disapproval of the request for write-off approval.

(ii) If the Secretary determines that a school has exercised due diligence in the collection of a loan, in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or if the school determines that the loan was uncollectible prior to August 1, 1985, the school will be permitted to reduce its accounts receivable for the HPSL fund by the full amount of principal, interest, and penalty charges that remains uncollected on that loan and will not be required to return the Federal share of the loss to the Secretary.

(iii) If a school does not request permission to write off an uncollectible loan within the required timeframe, it must reimburse the fund for the full amount of principal, interest, and penalty charges that remains uncollected on that loan. This reimbursement must be made by the following June 30 or December 31, whichever is sooner, except that in no case will a school be required to reimburse the fund in less than 30 days following its determination that a loan is uncollectible.

(iv) Failure to comply with the requirement of this section will subject a school to the noncompliance provisions of ยง 57.218 and the Department's Claims Collection regulations (45 CFR part 30), as appropriate.
