
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Home and Community-Based Attendant Services and Supports State Plan Option (Community First Choice)
###### ยง 441.570 State assurances.

A State must assure the following requirements are met:

(a) Necessary safeguards have been taken to protect the health and welfare of enrollees in Community First Choice, including adherence to section 1903(i) of the Act that Medicaid payment shall not be made for items or services furnished by individuals or entities excluded from participating in the Medicaid Program.

(b) For the first full 12 month period in which the State plan amendment is implemented, the State must maintain or exceed the level of State expenditures for home and community-based attendant services and supports provided under sections 1115, 1905(a), 1915, or otherwise under the Act, to individuals with disabilities or elderly individuals attributable to the preceding 12 month period.

(c) All applicable provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.

(d) All applicable provisions of Federal and State laws regarding the following:

(1) Withholding and payment of Federal and State income and payroll taxes.

(2) The provision of unemployment and workers compensation insurance.

(3) Maintenance of general liability insurance.

(4) Occupational health and safety.

(5) Any other employment or tax related requirements.
