
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Home and Community-Based Attendant Services and Supports State Plan Option (Community First Choice)
###### ยง 441.580 Data collection.

A State must provide the following information regarding the provision of home and community-based attendant services and supports under Community First Choice for each Federal fiscal year for which the services and supports are provided:

(a) The number of individuals who are estimated to receive Community First Choice services and supports under this State plan option during the Federal fiscal year.

(b) The number of individuals who received the services and supports during the preceding Federal fiscal year.

(c) The number of individuals served broken down by type of disability, age, gender, education level, and employment status.

(d) The specific number of individuals who have been previously served under sections 1115, 1915(c) and (i) of the Act, or the personal care State plan option.

(e) Data regarding how the State provides Community First Choice and other home and community-based services.

(f) The cost of providing Community First Choice and other home and community-based services and supports.

(g) Data regarding how the State provides individuals with disabilities who otherwise qualify for institutional care under the State plan or under a waiver the choice to receive home and community-based services in lieu of institutional care.

(h) Data regarding the impact of Community First Choice services and supports on the physical and emotional health of individuals.

(i) Other data as determined by the Secretary.
