
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Home and Community-Based Attendant Services and Supports State Plan Option (Community First Choice)
###### ยง 441.585 Quality assurance system.

(a) States must establish and maintain a comprehensive, continuous quality assurance system, described in the State plan amendment, which includes the following:

(1) A quality improvement strategy.

(2) Methods to continuously monitor the health and welfare of each individual who receives home and community-based attendant services and supports, including a process for the mandatory reporting, investigation, and resolution of allegations of neglect, abuse, or exploitation in connection with the provision of such services and supports.

(3) Measures individual outcomes associated with the receipt of home and community-based attendant services and supports as set forth in the person centered service plan, particularly for the health and welfare of individuals receiving such services and supports. These measures must be reported to CMS upon request.

(4) Standards for all service delivery models for training, appeals for denials and reconsideration procedures for an individual's person-centered service plan.

(5) Other requirements as determined by the Secretary.

(b) The State must ensure the quality assurance system will employ methods that maximizes individual independence and control, and provides information about the provisions of quality improvement and assurance to each individual receiving such services and supports.

(c) The State must elicit and incorporate feedback from individuals and their representatives, disability organizations, providers, families of disabled or elderly individuals, members of the community and others to improve the quality of the community-based attendant services and supports benefit.
