
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Home and Community-Based Attendant Services and Supports State Plan Option (Community First Choice)
###### ยง 441.550 Service plan requirements for self-directed model with service budget.

The person-centered service plan under the self-directed model with service budget conveys authority to the individual to perform, at a minimum, the following tasks:

(a) Recruit and hire or select attendant care providers to provide self-directed Community First Choice services and supports, including specifying attendant care provider qualifications.

(b) Dismiss specific attendant care providers of Community First Choice services and supports.

(c) Supervise attendant care providers in the provision of Community First Choice services and supports.

(d) Manage attendant care providers in the provision of Community First Choice services and supports, which includes the following functions:

(1) Determining attendant care provider duties.

(2) Scheduling attendant care providers.

(3) Training attendant care providers in assigned tasks.

(4) Evaluating attendant care providers' performance.

(e) Determining the amount paid for a service, support, or item, in accordance with State and Federal compensation requirements.

(f) Reviewing and approving provider payment requests.
