
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart M - State Plan Home and Community-Based Services for the Elderly and Individuals with Disabilities
###### ยง 441.710 State plan home and community-based services under section 1915(i)(1) of the Act.
####### 8

() Include an assurance that interventions and supports will cause no harm to the individual.

(2) Home and community-based settings do not include the following:

(i) A nursing facility.

(ii) An institution for mental diseases.

(iii) An intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual disabilities.

(iv) A hospital.

(v) Any other locations that have qualities of an institutional setting, as determined by the Secretary. Any setting that is located in a building that is also a publicly or privately operated facility that provides inpatient institutional treatment, or in a building on the grounds of, or immediately adjacent to, a public institution, or any other setting that has the effect of isolating individuals receiving Medicaid HCBS from the broader community of individuals not receiving Medicaid HCBS will be presumed to be a setting that has the qualities of an institution unless the Secretary determines through heightened scrutiny, based on information presented by the State or other parties, that the setting does not have the qualities of an institution and that the setting does have the qualities of home and community-based settings.

(3) Compliance and transition:

(i) States submitting state plan amendments for new section 1915(i) of the Act benefits must provide assurances of compliance with the requirements of this section for home and community-based settings as of the effective date of the state plan amendment;

(ii) CMS will require transition plans for existing section 1915(c) waivers and approved state plans providing home and community-based services under section 1915(i) to achieve compliance with this section, as follows:

(A) For each approved section 1915(i) of the Act benefit subject to renewal or submitted for amendment within one year after the effective date of this regulation, the State must submit a transition plan at the time of the renewal or amendment request that sets forth the actions the State will take to bring the specific 1915(i) State plan benefit into compliance with this section. The approval will be contingent on the inclusion of the transition plan approved by CMS. The transition plan must include all elements required by the Secretary; and within one hundred and twenty days of the submission of the first renewal or amendment request the State must submit a transition plan detailing how the State will operate all section 1915(c) HCBS waivers and any section 1915(i) State plan benefit in accordance with this section. The transition plan must include all elements including timelines and deliverables as approved by the Secretary.

(B) For States that do not have a section 1915(c) waiver or a section 1915(i) State plan benefit due for renewal or proposed for amendments within one year of the effective date of this regulation, the State must submit a transition plan detailing how the State will operate all section 1915(c) waivers and any section 1915(i) State plan benefit in accordance with this section. This plan must be submitted no later than one year after the effective date of this regulation. The transition plan must include all elements including timelines and deliverables as approved by the Secretary.

(iii) A State must provide at least a 30-day public notice and comment period regarding the transition plan(s) that the State intends to submit to CMS for review and consideration, as follows:

(A) The State must at a minimum provide two (2) statements of public notice and public input procedures.

(B) The State must ensure the full transition plan(s) is available to the public for public comment.

(C) The State must consider and modify the transition plan, as the State deems appropriate, to account for public comment.

(iv) A State must submit to CMS, with the proposed transition plan:

(A) Evidence of the public notice required.

(B) A summary of the comments received during the public notice period, reasons why comments were not adopted, and any modifications to the transition plan based upon those comments.

(v) Upon approval by CMS, the State will begin implementation of the transition plans. The State's failure to submit an approvable transition plan as required by this section and/or to comply with the terms of the approved transition plan may result in compliance actions, including but not limited to deferral/disallowance of Federal Financial Participation.
