
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 441 - SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES
##### Subpart M - State Plan Home and Community-Based Services for the Elderly and Individuals with Disabilities
###### ยง 441.710 State plan home and community-based services under section 1915(i)(1) of the Act.
####### Nonapplication.

(e)The State may elect in the State plan amendment approved under this subpart not to apply the following requirements when determining eligibility:

(1) Section 1902(a)(10)(C)(i)(III) of the Act, pertaining to income and resource eligibility rules for the medically needy living in the community, but only for the purposes of providing State plan HCBS.

(2) Section 1902(a)(10)(B) of the Act, pertaining to comparability of Medicaid services, but only for the purposes of providing section 1915(i) State plan HCBS. In the event that a State elects not to apply comparability requirements:

(i) The State must describe the group(s) receiving State plan HCBS, subject to the Secretary's approval. Targeting criteria cannot have the impact of limiting the pool of qualified providers from which an individual would receive services, or have the impact of requiring an individual to receive services from the same entity from which they purchase their housing. These groups must be defined on the basis of any combination of the following:

(A) Age.

(B) Diagnosis.

(C) Disability.

(D) Medicaid Eligibility Group.

(ii) The State may elect in the State plan amendment to limit the availability of specific services defined under the authority of ยง 440.182(c) of this chapter or to vary the amount, duration, or scope of those services, to one or more of the group(s) described in this paragraph.
