
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 57 - GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TEACHING FACILITIES, EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS, SCHOLARSHIPS AND STUDENT LOANS
##### Subpart C - Health Professions Student Loans
###### ยง 57.216a Performance standard.
####### matured loans

(2) The termmeans the total principal amount of all loans made by a school under this subpart minus the total principal amount of loans made by the school to students who are:

(i) Enrolled in a full-time course of study at the school; or

(ii) In their grace period.

(b) Any school that has a default rate greater than 5 percent on June 30 of any year will be required to:

(1) Reduce its default rate by 50 percent (or a school with a default rate below 10 percent must reduce its rate to 5 percent) by the close of the following 6-month period; and

(2) By the end of each succeeding 6-month period, reduce its default rate to 50 percent of the required rate for the previous 6-month period, until it reaches 5 percent.

(c) Any school subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section which fails to comply with those requirements will receive no new HPSL funds and will be required to:

(1) Place the revolving fund monies and all subsequent collections into an insured interest-bearing account;

(2) Make no loan disbursements; and

(3) By the end of the succeeding 6-month period, reduce its default rate to 50 percent of the rate it failed to achieve under paragraph (b) of this section, or 5 percent. A school that meets this requirement will be permitted to resume the use of its health professions student loan funds, but must continue to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section if its default rate is still greater than 5 percent.

(d) Any school subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section which fails to comply with those requirements will be subject to termination. The Secretary will provide the school with a written notice specifying his or her intention to terminate the school's participation in the program and stating that the school may request, within 30 days of the receipt of this notice, a formal hearing. If the school requests a hearing, it must within 90 days of the receipt of the notice, submit material, factual issues in dispute to demonstrate that there is cause for a hearing. These issues must be both substantive and relevant. The hearing will be held in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. The Secretary will deny a hearing if:

(1) The request for a hearing is untimely (i.e., fails to meet the 30-day requirement);

(2) The school does not provide a statement of material, factual issues in dispute within the 90-day required period; or

(3) The statement of factual issues in dispute is frivolous or inconsequential.
