
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart A - Payments: General Provisions
###### ยง 447.31 Withholding Medicare payments to recover Medicaid overpayments.
####### Documentation to be submitted to CMS.

(c)The agency must submit the following information or documentation to CMS (unless otherwise specified) with the request for withholding of Medicare payments.

(1) A statement of the reason that withholding is requested.

(2) The amount of overpayment, type of overpayment, date the overpayment was determined, and the closing date of the pertinent cost reporting period (if applicable).

(3) The quarter in which the overpayment was reported on the quarterly expenditure report (Form CMS 64).

(4) As needed, and upon request from CMS, the names and addresses of the provider's officers and owners for each period that there is an outstanding overpayment.

(5) A statement of assurance that the State agency has met the notice requirements under paragraph (b) of this section.

(6) As needed, and upon request for CMS, copies of notices (under paragraph (b) of this section), and reports of contact or attempted contact with the provider concerning the overpayment, including any reduction or suspension of Medicaid payments made with respect to that overpayment.

(7) A copy of the provider's agreement with the agency under ยง 431.107 of this chapter.
