
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart A - Payments: General Provisions
###### ยง 447.45 Timely claims payment.
####### Timely processing of claims.

(d)(1) The Medicaid agency must require providers to submit all claims no later than 12 months from the date of service.

(2) The agency must pay 90 percent of all clean claims from practitioners, who are in individual or group practice or who practice in shared health facilities, within 30 days of the date of receipt.

(3) The agency must pay 99 percent of all clean claims from practitioners, who are in individual or group practice or who practice in shared health facilities, within 90 days of the date of receipt.

(4) The agency must pay all other claims within 12 months of the date of receipt, except in the following circumstances:

(i) This time limitation does not apply to retroactive adjustments paid to providers who are reimbursed under a retrospective payment system, as defined in ยง 447.272 of this part.

(ii) If a claim for payment under Medicare has been filed in a timely manner, the agency may pay a Medicaid claim relating to the same services within 6 months after the agency or the provider receives notice of the disposition of the Medicare claim.

(iii) The time limitation does not apply to claims from providers under investigation for fraud or abuse.

(iv) The agency may make payments at any time in accordance with a court order, to carry out hearing decisions or agency corrective actions taken to resolve a dispute, or to extend the benefits of a hearing decision, corrective action, or court order to others in the same situation as those directly affected by it.

(5) The date of receipt is the date the agency receives the claim, as indicated by its date stamp on the claim.

(6) The date of payment is the date of the check or other form of payment.
