
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Payment Methods: General Provisions
###### ยง 447.203 Documentation of access to care and service payment rates.
####### Access monitoring review plan timeframe.

(5)Beginning October 1, 2016 the State agency must:

(i) Develop its access monitoring review plan by October 1 of the first review year, and update this plan by October 1 of each subsequent review period;

(ii) For all of the following, complete an analysis of the data collected using the methodology specified in the access monitoring review plan in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, with a separate analysis for each provider type and site of service furnishing the type of service at least once every 3 years:

(A) Primary care services (including those provided by a physician, FQHC, clinic, or dental care).

(B) Physician specialist services (for example, cardiology, urology, radiology).

(C) Behavioral health services (including mental health and substance use disorder).

(D) Pre- and post-natal obstetric services including labor and delivery.

(E) Home health services.

(F) Any additional types of services for which a review is required under paragraph (b)(6) of this section;

(G) Additional types of services for which the state or CMS has received a significantly higher than usual volume of beneficiary, provider or other stakeholder access complaints for a geographic area, including complaints received through the mechanisms for beneficiary input consistent with paragraph (b)(7) of this section; and

(H) Additional types of services selected by the state.
