
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Payment Adjustments for Hospitals That Serve a Disproportionate Number of Low-Income Patients
###### ยง 447.296 Limitations on aggregate payments for disproportionate share hospitals for the period January 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to the 50 States and the District of Columbia, but not to any State whose entire Medicaid program is operated under a waiver granted under section 1115 of the Act.

(b) For the period January 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992, FFP is available for aggregate payments to hospitals that serve a disproprotionate number of low-income patients with special needs only if the payments are made in accordance with sections 1902(a)(13)(A) and 1923 of the Act, and with one of the following:

(1) An approved State plan in effect as of September 30, 1991.

(2) A State plan amendment submitted to CMS by September 30, 1991.

(3) A State plan amendment, or modification thereof, submitted to CMS between October 1, 1991 and November 26, 1991, if the amendment, or modification thereof, was intended to limit the State's definition of disproportionate share hospitals to those hospitals with Medicaid inpatient utilization rates or low-income utilization rates (as defined in section 1923 (b) of the Act) at or above the statewide arithmetic mean.

(4) A methodology for disproportionate share hospital payments that was established and in effect as of September 30, 1991, or in accordance with a State law enacted or State regulation adopted as of September 30, 1991.

(5) A State plan amendment submitted to CMS by September 30, 1992 that increases aggregate disproportionate share hospitals payments in order to meet the minimum payment adjustments required by section 1923(c)(1) of the Act. The minimum payment adjustment is the amount required by the Medicare methodology described in section 1923(c)(1) of the Act for those hospitals that satisfy the minimum Federal definition of a disproportionate share hospital in section 1923(b) of the Act.

(6) A State plan amendment submitted to CMS by September 30, 1992 that provides for a redistribution of disproportionate share hospital payments within the State without raising total payments compared to the previously approved State plan. CMS will approve the amendment only if the State submits written documentation that demonstrates to CMS that the aggregate payments that will be made after the redistribution are no greater than those payments made before the redistribution.

(7) A State plan amendment submitted to CMS by September 30, 1992 that provides for a reduction in disproportionate share hospital payments.
