
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Payment Adjustments for Hospitals That Serve a Disproportionate Number of Low-Income Patients
###### ยง 447.298 State disproportionate share hospital allotments.
####### Supplemental amount available for low-DSH States.

(e)(1) A supplemental amount is the State's share of a pool of money (referred to as a redistribution pool).

(2) CMS will calculate the redistribution pool for the appropriate Federal fiscal year by subtracting from the projected national DSH expenditure target the following:

(i) The total of the State DSH base allotments for all high-DSH States;

(ii) The total of the previous year's State DSH allotments for all low-DSH States;

(iii) The State growth amount for all low-DSH States; and

(iv) The total amount of additional DSH payment adjustments made in order to meet the minimum payment adjustments required under section 1923(c)(l) of the Act, which are made in accordance with ยง 447.296(b)(5).

(3) CMS will determine the percent of the redistribution pool for each low-DSH State on the basis of each State's relative share of the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures for the Federal fiscal year compared to the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures for the Federal fiscal year projected to be made by all low-DSH States. The percent of the redistribution pool that each State will receive is equal to the State's total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures divided by the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures for all low-DSH States.

(4) CMS will not provide any low-DSH State a supplemental amount that would result in the State's total DSH allotment exceeding 12 percent of its projected total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures. CMS will reallocate any supplemental amounts not allocated to States because of this 12-percent limitation to other low-DSH States in accordance with the percentage determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(5) CMS will not reallocate to low-DSH States the difference between any State's actual DSH expenditures applicable to a Federal fiscal year and its State DSH allotment applicable to that Federal fiscal year. Thus, any unspent DSH allotment may not be reallocated.
