
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Payment Adjustments for Hospitals That Serve a Disproportionate Number of Low-Income Patients
###### ยง 447.298 State disproportionate share hospital allotments.
####### Calculation of State's base allotment for Federal fiscal year 1993.

(a)(1) For Federal fiscal year 1993, CMS will calculate for each State a DSH allotment, using the State's "base allotment." The State's base allotment is the greater of:

(i) The total amount of the State's projected DSH payments for Federal fiscal year 1992 under the State plan applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992, calculated in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or

(ii) $1,000,000.

(2) In calculating the State's DSH payments applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992, CMS will derive amounts from payments applicable to the period of October 1, 1991, through September 30, 1992, under State plans or plan amendments that meet the requirements specified in ยง 447.296(b). The calculation will not include-

(i) DSH payment adjustments made by the State applicable to the period October 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991 under State plans or plan amendments that do not meet the criteria described in ยง 447.296; and

(ii) Retroactive DSH payments made in 1992 that are not applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992.

(3) CMS will calculate a percentage for each State by dividing the DSH base allotment by the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures, excluding administrative costs, made during Federal fiscal year 1992. On the basis of this percentage, CMS will classify each State as a "high-DSH" or "low-DSH" State.

(i) If the State's base allotment exceeded 12 percent of its total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures made under the State plan in Federal fiscal year 1992, CMS will classify the State as a "high-DSH" State.

(ii) If the State's base allotment was 12 percent or less of its total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures made under the State plan in Federal fiscal year 1992, CMS will classify the State as a "low-DSH" State.
