
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 57 - GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TEACHING FACILITIES, EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS, SCHOLARSHIPS AND STUDENT LOANS
##### Subpart D - Nursing Student Loans
###### ยง 57.304 Payment of Federal capital contributions and reallocation of funds remitted to the Secretary.
####### Annual payment.

(a)The Secretary will make payments at a time determined by him or her, to each school with which he or she has entered into an agreement under the Act.

(1) For any fiscal year for which "set-aside" funds are available, the Secretary will first make payments in the manner described in (a)(2) of this section of not less than $1,000,000 of the amount of Federal funds determined by the Secretary at the time of payment to be available for making loans under this subpart. These funds will be paid to schools submitting an application for "set-aside" funds to be used only for the purpose of making loans to individuals qualified to receive loans under this subpart who, on the date they receive the loan, have not been employed on a full-time basis or been enrolled in any educational institution on a full-time basis for at least 7 years. An individual may not receive a loan under this subparagraph that exceeds $500 for any academic year.

(2) If the total of the amounts requested for any fiscal year by all schools for Federal capital contributions minus the amount received under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds the amount of Federal funds determined by the Secretary at the time of payment to be available for this purpose, the payment to each school will be reduced to whichever is smaller: (i) The amount requested in the application, or (ii) an amount which bears the same ratio to the total amount of Federal funds determined by the Secretary at the time of payment to be available for that fiscal year for the Nursing Student Loan program as the number of full-time students estimated by the Secretary to be enrolled in that school bears to the estimated total number of full-time students in all participating schools during that year.

(3) Amounts remaining after these payments are made will be distributed in accordance with this paragraph among schools whose applications requested more than the amount paid to them, but with whatever adjustments that may be necessary to prevent the total paid to any school from exceeding the total requested by it.
