
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.504 Determination of average manufacturer price.
####### Sales, nominal price sales, and associated discounts, rebates, payments, or other financial transactions included in AMP for 5i drugs that are not generally dispensed through retail community pharmacies.

(d)Except for those sales, nominal price sales, and associated discounts, rebates, payments, and other financial transactions identified in paragraph (e) of this section, AMP for inhalation, infusion, instilled, implanted, or injectable drugs (5i) covered outpatient drugs identified in accordance with ยง 447.507 shall include sales, nominal price sales, and associated discounts, rebates, payments, or other financial transactions to all entities specified in paragraph (b) of this section, as well as the following sales, nominal price sales, and associated discounts, rebates, payments, or other financial transactions:

(1) Sales to physicians.

(2) Sales to pharmacy benefit managers.

(3) Sales to health maintenance organizations (HMOs), including managed care organizations (MCOs).

(4) Sales to insurers (except for rebates under section 1927 of the Act and this subpart).

(5) Sales to hospitals.

(6) Sales to clinics and outpatient facilities (for example, surgical centers, ambulatory care centers, dialysis centers, mental health centers).

(7) Sales to mail order pharmacies.

(8) Sales to long-term care providers, including nursing facility pharmacies, nursing home pharmacies, long-term care facilities, contract pharmacies for the nursing facility where these sales can be identified with adequate documentation, and other entities where the drugs are dispensed through a nursing facility pharmacy, such as assisted living facilities.

(9) Sales to hospices (inpatient and outpatient).

(10) Sales to manufacturers, or any other entity that does not conduct business as a wholesaler or retail community pharmacy.
