
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.505 Determination of best price.
####### Prices excluded from best price.

(c)Best price excludes the following:

(1) Any prices on or after October 1, 1992, charged to the IHS, the DVA, a State home receiving funds under 38 U.S.C. 1741, the DoD, or the PHS.

(2) Any prices charged to a covered entity described in section 1927(a)(5)(B) of the Act (including inpatient prices charged to hospitals described in section 340B(a)(4)(L) of the PHSA).

(3) Any prices charged under the FSS of the GSA.

(4) Any prices, rebates, or discounts provided to a designated State Pharmacy Assistance Program (SPAP).

(5) Any depot prices (including TRICARE) and single award contract prices, as defined by the Secretary, of any agency of the Federal government.

(6) Any prices charged which are negotiated by a prescription drug plan under Part D of title XVIII, by any MA-PD plan under Part C of such title for covered Part D drugs, or by a Qualified Retiree Prescription Drug Plan (as defined in section 1860D-22(a)(2) of the Act) for such drugs on behalf of individuals entitled to benefits under Part A or enrolled under Part B of Medicare, or any discounts provided by manufacturers under the Medicare coverage gap discount program under section 1860D-14A of the Act.

(7) Rebates under the national rebate agreement or a CMS-authorized supplemental rebate agreement paid to State Medicaid Agencies under section 1927 of the Act.

(8) Manufacturer-sponsored drug discount card programs, but only to the extent the manufacturer ensures that the full value of the discount is passed on to the consumer and the pharmacy, agent, or other entity does not receive any price concession.

(9) Manufacturer coupons to a consumer redeemed by a consumer, agent, pharmacy, or another entity acting on behalf of the manufacturer; but only to the extent the manufacturer ensures that the full value of the coupon is passed on to the consumer, and the pharmacy, agent, or other entity does not receive any price concession.

(10) Manufacturer copayment assistance programs, to the extent that the manufacturer ensures the program benefits are provided entirely to the patient and the pharmacy, agent, or other entity does not receive any price concession.

(11) Manufacturer-sponsored patient refund or rebate programs, to the extent that the manufacturer ensures the manufacturer provides a full or partial refund or rebate to the patient for out-of-pocket costs and the pharmacy, agent, or other entity does not receive any price concession.

(12) Manufacturer-sponsored programs that provide free goods, including but not limited to vouchers and patient assistance programs, but only to the extent that the manufacturer ensures the voucher or benefit of such a program is not contingent on any other purchase requirement; the full value of the voucher or benefit of such a program is passed on to the consumer; and the pharmacy, agent, or other entity does not receive any price concession.

(13) Free goods, not contingent upon any purchase requirement.

(14) Reimbursement by the manufacturer for recalled, damaged, expired, or otherwise unsalable returned goods, including, but not limited to, reimbursement for the cost of the goods and any reimbursement of costs associated with return goods handling and processing, reverse logistics, and drug destruction but only to the extent that such payment covers only these costs.

(15) Nominal prices to certain entities as set forth in ยง 447.508.

(16) Bona fide service fees as defined in ยง 447.502.

(17) PBM rebates, discounts, or other financial transactions except their mail order pharmacy's purchases or where such rebates, discounts, or other financial transactions are designed to adjust prices at the retail or provider level.

(18) Sales outside the United States.

(19) Direct sales to patients.
