
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.504 Determination of average manufacturer price.
####### Sales, nominal price sales, and associated discounts, rebates, payments, or other financial transactions excluded from AMP.

(c)AMP excludes the following sales, nominal price sales, and associated discounts, rebates, payments, or other financial transactions:

(1) Any prices on or after October 1, 1992, to the Indian Health Service (IHS), the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA), a State home receiving funds under 38 U.S.C. 1741, the Department of Defense (DoD), the Public Health Service (PHS), or a covered entity described in section 1927(a)(5)(B) of the Act (including inpatient prices charged to hospitals described in section 340B(a)(4)(L) of the PHSA).

(2) Any prices charged under the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) of the General Services Administration (GSA).

(3) Any depot prices (including TRICARE) and single award contract prices, as defined by the Secretary, of any agency of the Federal government.

(4) Sales outside the United States.

(5) Sales to hospitals.

(6) Sales to health maintenance organizations (HMOs) (including managed care organizations (MCOs)), including HMO or MCO operated pharmacies.

(7) Sales to long-term care providers, including nursing facility pharmacies, nursing home pharmacies, long-term care facilities, contract pharmacies for the nursing facility where these sales can be identified with adequate documentation, and other entities where the drugs are dispensed through a nursing facility pharmacy, such as assisted living facilities.

(8) Sales to mail order pharmacies.

(9) Sales to clinics and outpatient facilities (for example, surgical centers, ambulatory care centers, dialysis centers, and mental health centers).

(10) Sales to government pharmacies (for example, a Federal, State, county, or municipal-owned pharmacy).

(11) Sales to charitable pharmacies.

(12) Sales to not-for-profit pharmacies.

(13) Sales, associated rebates, discounts, or other price concessions paid directly to insurers.

(14) Bona fide service fees, as defined in ยง 447.502, paid by manufacturers to wholesalers or retail community pharmacies.

(15) Customary prompt pay discounts extended to wholesalers.

(16) Reimbursement by the manufacturer for recalled, damaged, expired, or otherwise unsalable returned goods, including (but not limited to) reimbursement for the cost of the goods and any reimbursement of costs associated with return goods handling and processing, reverse logistics, and drug destruction, but only to the extent that such payment covers only those costs.

(17) Associated discounts, rebates, or other price concessions provided under the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program under section 1860D-14A of the Act.

(18) Payments received from and rebates and discounts provided to pharmacy benefit manufacturers (PBMs).

(19) Rebates under the national rebate agreement or a CMS-authorized State supplemental rebate agreement paid to State Medicaid Agencies under section 1927 of the Act.

(20) Sales to hospices (inpatient and outpatient).

(21) Sales to prisons.

(22) Sales to physicians.

(23) Direct sales to patients.

(24) Free goods, not contingent upon any purchase requirement.

(25) Manufacturer coupons to a consumer redeemed by the manufacturer, agent, pharmacy or another entity acting on behalf of the manufacturer, but only to the extent that the manufacturer ensures the full value of the coupon is passed on to the consumer and the pharmacy, agent, or other AMP-eligible entity does not receive any price concession.

(26) Manufacturer-sponsored programs that provide free goods, including but not limited to vouchers and patient assistance programs, but only to the extent that the manufacturer ensures: the voucher or benefit of such a program is not contingent on any other purchase requirement; the full value of the voucher or benefit of such a program is passed on to the consumer; and the pharmacy, agent, or other AMP-eligible entity does not receive any price concession.

(27) Manufacturer-sponsored drug discount card programs, but only to the extent that the manufacturer ensures the full value of the discount is passed on to the consumer and the pharmacy, agent, or the other AMP-eligible entity does not receive any price concession.

(28) Manufacturer-sponsored patient refund/rebate programs, to the extent that the manufacturer ensures that the manufacturer provides a full or partial refund or rebate to the patient for out-of-pocket costs and the pharmacy, agent, or other AMP-eligible entity does not receive any price concession.

(29) Manufacturer copayment assistance programs, to the extent that the manufacturer ensures the program benefits are provided entirely to the patient and the pharmacy, agent, or other AMP-eligible entity does not receive any price concession

(30) Any rebates, discounts, or price concessions provided to a designated State Pharmacy Assistance Program (SPAP).
