
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.509 Medicaid drug rebates (MDR).
####### Federal offset of rebates.

(c)States must remit to the Federal government the amount of the savings resulting from the following increases in the rebate percentages.

(1) For single source or innovator multiple source drugs other than blood clotting factors and drugs approved by FDA exclusively for pediatric indications:

(i) If AMP minus best price is less than or equal to AMP times 15.1 percent, then the offset amount is the full 8.0 percent of AMP (the difference between 23.1 percent of AMP and 15.1 percent of AMP).

(ii) If AMP minus best price is greater than AMP times 15.1 percent but less than AMP times 23.1 percent, then the offset amount is the difference between AMP times 23.1 percent and AMP minus best price.

(iii) If AMP minus best price is equal to or greater than AMP times 23.1 percent, then there is no offset amount.

(2) For single source or innovator multiple source drugs that are clotting factors and drugs approved by FDA exclusively for pediatric indications that are subject to a rebate percentage of 17.1 percent of AMP:

(i) If AMP minus best price is less than or equal to AMP times 15.1 percent, then the offset amount is the full 2.0 percent of AMP (the difference between 17.1 percent of AMP and 15.1 percent of AMP).

(ii) If AMP minus best price is greater than AMP times 15.1 percent but less than AMP times 17.1 percent, then the offset amount is the difference between AMP times 17.1 percent and AMP minus best price.

(iii) If AMP minus best price is equal to or greater than AMP times 17.1 percent, then there is no offset amount.

(3) For a drug that is a line extension of a single source or innovator multiple source drug that is an oral solid dosage form, the offset amount is the difference between the unit rebate amount (URA) calculation for the drug calculated based on the applicable rebate percentage in section 1927 of the Act prior to the Affordable Care Act and the calculation of the URA for the line extension drug, if greater, in accordance with the Affordable Care Act.

(4) For noninnovator multiple source drugs, the offset amount is equal to 2.0 percent of the AMP (the difference between 13.0 percent of AMP and 11.0 percent of AMP).
