
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.510 Requirements for manufacturers.
####### Reporting revised quarterly AMP, best price, customary prompt pay discounts, or nominal prices.

(b)(1) A manufacturer must report to CMS any revision to AMP, best price, customary prompt pay discounts, or nominal prices for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data were due. Any revision request that exceeds 12 quarters will not be considered, except for the following reasons:

(i) The change is a result of the drug category change or a market date change.

(ii) The change is an initial submission for a product.

(iii) The change is due to termination of a manufacturer from the MDR program for failure to submit pricing data and must submit pricing data to reenter the program.

(iv) The change is due to a technical correction; that is, not based on any changes in sales transactions or pricing adjustments from such transactions.

(v) The change is to address specific rebate adjustments to States by manufacturers, as required by CMS or court order, or under an internal investigation, or an OIG or Department of Justice (DOJ) investigation.

(vi) The change is a result of a VBP arrangement, as defined in ยง 447.502, requiring the manufacturer to make changes outside of the 12-quarter rule in this paragraph (b), when the outcome must be evaluated outside of the 12-quarter period.

(2) A manufacturer must report revised AMP within the 12-quarter time period, except when the revision would be solely as a result of data pertaining to lagged price concessions.
