
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.510 Requirements for manufacturers.
####### Calculation of monthly AMP.

(2)Monthly AMP is calculated based on ยง 447.504, except the period covered is based on monthly, as opposed to quarterly, sales.

(i) The monthly AMP is calculated based on the weighted average of prices for all the manufacturer's package sizes of each covered outpatient drug sold by the manufacturer during a month.

(ii) It is calculated as net sales divided by number of units sold, excluding goods or any other items specifically excluded in the statute or regulations. Monthly AMP is calculated based on the best data available to the manufacturer at the time of submission.

(iii) In calculating monthly AMP, a manufacturer must estimate the impact of its lagged AMP-eligible price concessions using a 12-month rolling percentage in accordance with the methodology described in this paragraph (d)(2).

(A) For each NDC-9 with at least 12 months of AMP-eligible sales, after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP, the manufacturer calculates a percentage equal to the sum of the price concessions for the most recent 12-month period (inclusive of the current reporting period) available associated with sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement divided by the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement for the same 12-month period.

(B) For each NDC-9 with less than 12 months of AMP-eligible sales, the calculation described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is performed for the time period equaling the total number of months of AMP-eligible sales.

(iv) The manufacturer multiplies the applicable percentage described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section by the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement (after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP) for the month being submitted. The result of this multiplication is then subtracted from the total in dollars for the sales subject to the AMP reporting requirement (after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP) for the month being submitted.

(v) The manufacturer uses the result of the calculation described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section as the numerator and the number of units sold in the month (after adjusting for sales excluded from AMP) as the denominator to calculate the manufacturer's AMP for the NDC for the month being submitted.
