
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 57 - GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TEACHING FACILITIES, EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS, SCHOLARSHIPS AND STUDENT LOANS
##### Subpart D - Nursing Student Loans
###### ยง 57.306 Eligibility and selection of nursing student loan applicants.
####### Selection of nursing student loan applicants and determinations of need.

(b)The school will select qualified applicants, make reasonable determinations of need, and determine the amount of student loans.

(1) In selecting nursing student loan applicants the school will give preference to licensed practical nurses, and to persons with exceptional financial need. For purposes of this preference, a student will be considered to demonstrate exceptional financial need if the school determines that the student's resources, as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, do not exceed one-half of the costs of attendance at the school. Summer earnings, educational loans, veterans (G.I.) benefits, earnings during the school year, and Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) will not be considered as resources in determining whether an applicant meets these criteria for exceptional financial need, but will be considered in determining the amount of funds a student may receive.

(2) In determining whether a student is in need of a nursing student loan to pursue a full-time or half-time course of study at the school, the school will take into consideration:

(i) The financial resources available to the student by using one of the national need analysis systems or any other procedure approved by the Secretary of Education in combination with other information which the school has regarding the student's financial status; and

(ii) The costs reasonably necessary for the student's attendance at the school, including any special needs and obligations which directly affect the student's financial ability to attend the school on a full-time or half-time basis. The school must document the criteria used for determining these costs.
