
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 447 - PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Payment for Drugs
###### ยง 447.518 State plan requirements, findings, and assurances.
####### Data requirements.

(d)(1)When proposing changes to either the ingredient cost reimbursement or professional dispensing fee reimbursement, States are required to evaluate their proposed changes in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, and States must consider both the ingredient cost reimbursement and the professional dispensing fee reimbursement when proposing such changes to ensure that total reimbursement to the pharmacy provider is in accordance with requirements of section 1902(a)(30)(A) of the Act. States must provide adequate data such as a State or national survey of retail pharmacy providers or other reliable data other than a survey to support any proposed changes to either or both of the components of the reimbursement methodology. States must submit to CMS the proposed change in reimbursement and the supporting data through a State plan amendment through the formal review process.

(2) A State participating in VBP arrangements approved under a CMS-authorized supplemental rebate agreement (SRA) must report data described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section on an annual basis.

(3) Within 60 days of the end of each year, the State must submit all of the following data, including cumulative data to date:

(i) State.

(ii) National drug code(s) (for drugs covered under the CMS-authorized VBP SRA).

(iii) Product's FDA list name.

(iv) Number of prescriptions.

(v) Cost to the State to administer the CMS-authorized VBP SRA (for example, systems changes, tracking outcomes, etc.).

(vi) Total savings generated by the supplemental rebate due to the CMS-authorized VBP SRA.
