
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart A - Medicaid Agency Fraud Detection and Investigation Program
###### ยง 455.23 Suspension of payments in cases of fraud.
####### Documentation and record retention.

(g)State Medicaid agencies must meet the following requirements:

(1) Maintain for a minimum of 5 years from the date of issuance all materials documenting the life cycle of a payment suspension that was imposed in whole or part, including the following:

(i) All notices of suspension of payment in whole or part.

(ii) All fraud referrals to the Medicaid fraud control unit or other law enforcement agency.

(iii) All quarterly certifications of continuing investigation status by law enforcement.

(iv) All notices documenting the termination of a suspension.

(2)(i) Maintain for a minimum of 5 years from the date of issuance all materials documenting each instance where a payment suspension was not imposed, imposed only in part, or discontinued for good cause.

(ii) This type of documentation must include, at a minimum, detailed information on the basis for the existence of the good cause not to suspend payments, to suspend payments only in part, or to discontinue a payment suspension and, where applicable, must specify how long the State anticipates such good cause will exist.

(3) Annually report to the Secretary summary information on each of following:

(i) Suspension of payment, including the nature of the suspected fraud, the basis for suspension, and the outcome of the suspension.

(ii) Situation in which the State determined good cause existed to not suspend payments, to suspend payments only in part, or to discontinue a payment suspension as described in this section, including describing the nature of the suspected fraud and the nature of the good cause.
