
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart A - Medicaid Agency Fraud Detection and Investigation Program
###### ยง 455.23 Suspension of payments in cases of fraud.
####### Referrals to the Medicaid fraud control unit.

(d)(1) Whenever a State Medicaid agency investigation leads to the initiation of a payment suspension in whole or part, the State Medicaid Agency must make a fraud referral to either of the following:

(i) To a Medicaid fraud control unit established and certified under part 1007 of this title; or

(ii) In States with no certified Medicaid fraud control unit, to an appropriate law enforcement agency.

(2) The fraud referral made under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must meet all of the following requirements:

(i) Be made in writing and provided to the Medicaid fraud control unit not later than the next business day after the suspension is enacted.

(ii) Conform to fraud referral performance standards issued by the Secretary.

(3)(i) If the Medicaid fraud control unit or other law enforcement agency accepts the fraud referral for investigation, the payment suspension may be continued until such time as the investigation and any associated enforcement proceedings are completed.

(ii) On a quarterly basis, the State must request a certification from the Medicaid fraud control unit or other law enforcement agency that any matter accepted on the basis of a referral continues to be under investigation thus warranting continuation of the suspension.

(4) If the Medicaid fraud control unit or other law enforcement agency declines to accept the fraud referral for investigation the payment suspension must be discontinued unless the State Medicaid agency has alternative Federal or State authority by which it may impose a suspension or makes a fraud referral to another law enforcement agency. In that situation, the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section apply equally to that referral as well.

(5) A State's decision to exercise the good cause exceptions in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section not to suspend payments or to suspend payments only in part does not relieve the State of the obligation to refer any credible allegation of fraud as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
