
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart A - Medicaid Agency Fraud Detection and Investigation Program
###### ยง 455.23 Suspension of payments in cases of fraud.
####### Notice of suspension.

(b)(1) The State agency must send notice of its suspension of program payments within the following timeframes:

(i) Five days of taking such action unless requested in writing by a law enforcement agency to temporarily withhold such notice.

(ii) Thirty days if requested by law enforcement in writing to delay sending such notice, which request for delay may be renewed in writing up to twice and in no event may exceed 90 days.

(2) The notice must include or address all of the following:

(i) State that payments are being suspended in accordance with this provision.

(ii) Set forth the general allegations as to the nature of the suspension action, but need not disclose any specific information concerning an ongoing investigation.

(iii) State that the suspension is for a temporary period, as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, and cite the circumstances under which the suspension will be terminated.

(iv) Specify, when applicable, to which type or types of Medicaid claims or business units of a provider suspension is effective.

(v) Inform the provider of the right to submit written evidence for consideration by State Medicaid Agency.

(vi) Set forth the applicable State administrative appeals process and corresponding citations to State law.
