
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart A - Medicaid Agency Fraud Detection and Investigation Program
###### ยง 455.23 Suspension of payments in cases of fraud.
####### Good cause to suspend payment only in part.

(f)A State may find that good cause exists to suspend payments in part, or to convert a payment suspension previously imposed in whole to one only in part, to an individual or entity against which there is an investigation of a credible allegation of fraud if any of the following are applicable:

(1) beneficiary access to items or services would be jeopardized by a payment suspension in whole or part because of either of the following:

(i) An individual or entity is the sole community physician or the sole source of essential specialized services in a community.

(ii) The individual or entity serves a large number of beneficiaries within a HRSA-designated medically underserved area.

(2) The State determines, based upon the submission of written evidence by the individual or entity that is the subject of a whole payment suspension, that such suspension should be imposed only in part.

(3)(i) The credible allegation focuses solely and definitively on only a specific type of claim or arises from only a specific business unit of a provider; and

(ii) The State determines and documents in writing that a payment suspension in part would effectively ensure that potentially fraudulent claims were not continuing to be paid.

(4) Law enforcement declines to certify that a matter continues to be under investigation per the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(5) The State determines that payment suspension only in part is in the best interests of the Medicaid program.
