
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 57 - GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF TEACHING FACILITIES, EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS, SCHOLARSHIPS AND STUDENT LOANS
##### Subpart D - Nursing Student Loans
###### ยง 57.310 Repayment and collection of nursing student loans.

(a) Each nursing student loan, including accrued interest, will be repayable in equal or graduated periodic installments in amounts calculated on the basis of a 10-year repayment period. Repayment of a loan must begin 9 months after the student ceases to be a full-time or half-time student, except that if a borrower reenters the same or another school as a full-time or half-time student within the 9-month period, the date upon which interest will accrue and the repayment period will begin will be determined by the date upon which the student last ceases to be a full-time or half-time student at that school.

(1) The following periods will be excluded from the 10-year repayment period: (i) All periods up to a total of 3 years of active duty performed by the borrower as a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Corps or the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps;

(ii) All periods up to a total of 3 years of service as a volunteer under the Peace Corps Act; and

(iii) All periods up to a total of 10 years during which the borrower is pursuing a full-time or half-time course of study at a school leading to a baccalaureate degree in nursing or an equivalent degree, or to a graduate degree in nursing, or is otherwise pursuing advanced professional training in nursing (or training to be a nurse anesthetist). For purposes of this paragraph, "otherwise pursuing advanced professional training in nursing" shall include full-time or half-time training, beyond the first diploma or degree in nursing received by the particular borrower, of at least 1 academic year which will advance the borrower's knowledge of and strengthen his or her skills in the provision of nursing services.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a borrower must establish a repayment schedule with the school providing for payments not less often than quarterly. Any borrower whose repayment becomes more than 60 days past due must be placed on a monthly repayment schedule by the school. A borrower may at his or her option and without penalty, prepay all or part of the principal and accrued interest at any time.

(3) A school may grant forbearance whenever extraordinary circumstances such as unemployment, poor health or other personal problems temporarily affect the borrower's ability to make scheduled loan repayments.
