
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart B - Disclosure of Information by Providers and Fiscal Agents
###### ยง 455.104 Disclosure by Medicaid providers and fiscal agents: Information on ownership and control.
####### What disclosures must be provided.

(b)The Medicaid agency must require that disclosing entities, fiscal agents, and managed care entities provide the following disclosures:

(1)(i) The name and address of any person (individual or corporation) with an ownership or control interest in the disclosing entity, fiscal agent, or managed care entity. The address for corporate entities must include as applicable primary business address, every business location, and P.O. Box address.

(ii) Date of birth and Social Security Number (in the case of an individual).

(iii) Other tax identification number (in the case of a corporation) with an ownership or control interest in the disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity) or in any subcontractor in which the disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity) has a 5 percent or more interest.

(2) Whether the person (individual or corporation) with an ownership or control interest in the disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity) is related to another person with ownership or control interest in the disclosing entity as a spouse, parent, child, or sibling; or whether the person (individual or corporation) with an ownership or control interest in any subcontractor in which the disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity) has a 5 percent or more interest is related to another person with ownership or control interest in the disclosing entity as a spouse, parent, child, or sibling.

(3) The name of any other disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity) in which an owner of the disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity) has an ownership or control interest.

(4) The name, address, date of birth, and Social Security Number of any managing employee of the disclosing entity (or fiscal agent or managed care entity).
