
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart B - Disclosure of Information by Providers and Fiscal Agents
###### ยง 455.107 Disclosure of affiliations.
####### Undue risk.

(f)Upon receipt of the information described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the State, in consultation with CMS, determines whether any of the disclosed affiliations poses an undue risk of fraud, waste, or abuse by considering the following factors:

(1) The duration of the affiliation.

(2) Whether the affiliation still exists and, if not, how long ago the affiliation ended.

(3) The degree and extent of the affiliation.

(4) If applicable, the reason for the termination of the affiliation.

(5) Regarding the affiliated provider's or supplier's disclosable event under paragraph (b) of this section, all of the following:

(i) The type of disclosable event.

(ii) When the disclosable event occurred or was imposed.

(iii) Whether the affiliation existed when the disclosable event occurred or was imposed.

(iv) If the disclosable event is an uncollected debt-

(A) The amount of the debt;

(B) Whether the affiliated provider or supplier is repaying the debt; and

(C) To whom the debt is owed.

(v) If a denial, revocation, termination, exclusion, or payment suspension is involved, the reason for the disclosable event.

(6) Any other evidence that the State, in consultation with CMS, deems relevant to its determination.
