
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart E - Provider Screening and Enrollment
###### ยง 455.470 Temporary moratoria.

(a)(1) The Secretary consults with any affected State Medicaid agency regarding imposition of temporary moratoria on enrollment of new providers or provider types prior to imposition of the moratoria, in accordance with ยง 424.570 of this chapter.

(2) The State Medicaid agency will impose temporary moratoria on enrollment of new providers or provider types identified by the Secretary as posing an increased risk to the Medicaid program.

(3)(i) The State Medicaid agency is not required to impose such a moratorium if the State Medicaid agency determines that imposition of a temporary moratorium would adversely affect beneficiaries' access to medical assistance.

(ii) If a State Medicaid agency makes such a determination, the State Medicaid agency must notify the Secretary in writing.

(b)(1) A State Medicaid agency may impose temporary moratoria on enrollment of new providers, or impose numerical caps or other limits that the State Medicaid agency identifies as having a significant potential for fraud, waste, or abuse and that the Secretary has identified as being at high risk for fraud, waste, or abuse.

(2) Before implementing the moratoria, caps, or other limits, the State Medicaid agency must determine that its action would not adversely impact beneficiaries' access to medical assistance.

(3) The State Medicaid agency must notify the Secretary in writing in the event the State Medicaid agency seeks to impose such moratoria, including all details of the moratoria; and obtain the Secretary's concurrence with imposition of the moratoria.

(c)(1) The State Medicaid agency must impose the moratorium for an initial period of 6 months.

(2) If the State Medicaid agency determines that it is necessary, the State Medicaid agency may extend the moratorium in 6-month increments.

(3) Each time, the State Medicaid agency must document in writing the necessity for extending the moratorium.
