
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 455 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY: MEDICAID
##### Subpart F - Medicaid Recovery Audit Contractors Program
###### ยง 455.510 Payments to RACs.
####### Overpayments.

(b)States must determine the contingency fee rate to be paid to Medicaid RACs for the identification and recovery of Medicaid provider overpayments.

(1) The contingency fees paid to Medicaid RACs must be based on a percentage of the overpayment recovered.

(2) States must determine at what stage in the Medicaid RAC audit process, after an overpayment has been recovered, Medicaid RACs will receive contingency fee payments.

(3) If a provider appeals a Medicaid RAC overpayment determination and the determination is reversed, at any level, then the Medicaid RAC must return the contingency fees associated with that payment within a reasonable timeframe, as prescribed by the State.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (5) of this section, the contingency fee may not exceed that of the highest Medicare RAC, as specified by CMS in theunless the State submits, and CMS approves, a waiver of the specified maximum rate. If a State does not obtain a waiver of the specified maximum rate, any amount exceeding the specified maximum rate is not eligible for FFP, either from the collected overpayment amounts, or in the form of any other administrative or medical assistance claimed expenditure.

(5) CMS will review and consider, on a case-by-case basis, a State's well-justified request that CMS provide FFP in paying a Medicaid RAC(s) a contingency fee in excess of the then-highest contingency fee paid to a Medicare RAC.
