
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 456.1 Basis and purpose of part.
####### Penalty for failure to have an effective program to control utilization of institutional services.

(2)Section 1903(g)(1) provides for a reduction in the amount of Federal Medicaid funds paid to a State for long-stay inpatient services if the State does not make a showing satisfactory to the Secretary that it has an effective program of control over utilization of those services. This penalty provision applies to inpatient services in hospitals, mental hospitals, and intermediate care facilities (ICF's). Specific requirements are:

(i) Under section 1903(g)(1)(A), a physician must certify at admission, and a physician (or physician assistant or nurse practitioner under the supervision of a physician) must periodically recertify, the individual's need for inpatient care.

(ii) Under section 1903(g)(1)(B), services must be furnished under a plan established and periodically evaluated by a physician.

(iii) Under section 1903(g)(1)(C), the State must have in effect a continuous program of review of utilization of care and services under section 1902(a)(30) whereby each admission is reviewed or screened in accordance with criteria established by medical and other professional personnel.

(iv) Under section 1903(g)(1)(D), the State must have an effective program under sections 1902(a) (26) and (31) of review of care in intermediate care facilities and mental hospitals. This must include evaluation at least annually of the professional management of each case.
