
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart I - Inspections of Care in Intermediate Care Facilities and Institutions for Mental Diseases
###### ยง 456.602 Inspection team.

(a) A team, as described in this section and ยง 456.603 must periodically inspect the care and services provided to beneficiaries in each facility.

(b) Each team conducting periodic inspections must have a least one member who is at physician or registered nurse and other appropriate health and social service personnel.

(c) For an IMD other than an ICF, each team must have a psychiatrist or physician knowledgeable about mental institutions and other appropriate mental health and social service personnel.

(d) For an ICF that primarily cares for mental patients, each team must have at least one member who knows the problems and needs of mentally retarded individuals.

(e) For an institution for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities or persons with related conditions, each team must have at least one member who knows the problems and needs of mentally retarded individuals.

(f) For ICFs primarily serving individuals 65 years of age or older, each team must have at least one member who knows the problems and needs of those individuals.

(g) If there is no physician on the team, the Medicaid agency must insure that a physician is available to provide consultation to the team.

(h) If a team has one or more physicians, it must be supervised by a physician.
