
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart K - Drug Use Review (DUR) Program and Electronic Claims Management System for Outpatient Drug Claims
###### ยง 456.703 Drug use review program.
####### Requirements for predetermined standards.

(f)The predetermined standards used in the DUR program must meet the following requirements:

(1) The source materials for their development are consistent with peer-reviewed medical literature (that is, scientific, medical, and pharmaceutical publications in which original manuscripts are published only after having been critically reviewed by unbiased independent experts) and the following compendia:

(i) American Hospital Formulary Service Drug Information;

(ii) United States Pharmacopeia-Drug Information;

(iii) American Medical Association Drug Evaluations.

(2) Differences between source materials were resolved by physicians and pharmacists developing consensus solutions. The consensus process means the reliance, by the criteria developers, on the expertise of physicians and pharmacists to evaluate differences in criteria source materials and to come to agreement on how differences should be resolved.

(3) They are non-proprietary and readily available to providers of services. Systems and algorithms using the predetermined standards may remain proprietary.

(4) They are clinically-based and scientifically valid.

(5) The review based on clinical criteria uses predetermined standards to determine the population at risk of a clinically significant adverse medical result and applies standards, appropriate to this population, across providers and patients to determine the provider outliers whose prescribing, dispensing, or consumption practices may not conform to accepted standards of care. Various statistical measures (including mean, range, or other measures at the discretion of the State) may be applied to these data. Standards may be considered in deciding if an in-depth review is needed to determine whether to intervene once the potential therapeutic problems have been identified through the use of clinical criteria.

(6) They have been tested against claims data prior to adoption in order to validate the level of possibly significant therapeutic problems without undue levels of false positives.

(7) The predetermined standards for prospective and retrospective DUR are compatible.

(8) They are subjected to ongoing evaluation and modification either as a result of actions by their developer or as a result of recommendations by the DUR Board.
