
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart K - Drug Use Review (DUR) Program and Electronic Claims Management System for Outpatient Drug Claims
###### ยง 456.705 Prospective drug review.
####### Drug counseling.

(c)(1) As part of the prospective drug review program, standards for counseling by pharmacists of beneficiaries or the beneficiaries' caregivers must be established by State law or other method that is satisfactory to the State agency. A State agency's counseling standards must address special situations where the patient or the patient's representative, is not readily available to receive the offer to counsel or the actual counseling, for example, prescriptions delivered offsite or through the mail. The State agency, at a minimum, must also address the following issues in their counseling standards:

(i) Whether the offer to counsel is required for new prescriptions only, or for both new and refill prescriptions;

(ii) Whether pharmacists must make the offer to counsel or auxiliary personnel are authorized to make the offer;

(iii) Whether only a patient's refusal of the offer to counsel must be documented, or whether documentation of all offers is required;

(iv) Whether documentation of counseling is required; and

(v) Whether counseling is required in situations where the patient's representative is not readily available to receive a counseling offer or the counseling itself.

(2) The standards must meet the following requirements:

(i) They must require pharmacists to offer to counsel (in person, whenever practicable, or through access to a telephone service that is toll-free for long-distance calls) each beneficiary or beneficiary's caregiver who presents a prescription. A pharmacist whose primary patient population is accessible through a local measured or toll-free exchange need not be required to offer toll-free service. Mail order pharmacies are required to provide toll-free telephone service for long distance calls.

(ii) They need not require a pharmacist to provide consultation when a Medicaid beneficiary or the beneficiary's caregiver refuses that consultation.

(iii) They must specify what documentation by the pharmacy of refusal of the offer of counseling is required.

(3) The standards must specify that the counseling include those matters listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(viii) of this section that, in the exercise of his or her professional judgement (consistent with State law regarding the provision of such information), the pharmacist considers significant as well as other matters the pharmacist considers significant.

(i) The name and description of the medication;

(ii) The dosage form, dosage, route of administration, and duration of drug therapy;

(iii) Special directions and precautions for preparation, administration, and use by the patient;

(iv) Common severe side or adverse effects or interactions and therapeutic contraindications that may be encountered, including their avoidance, and the action required if they occur;

(v) Techniques for self-monitoring drug therapy;

(vi) Proper storage;

(vii) Prescription refill information; and

(viii) Action to be taken in the event of a missed dose.
