
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart K - Drug Use Review (DUR) Program and Electronic Claims Management System for Outpatient Drug Claims
###### ยง 456.705 Prospective drug review.
####### Point-of-sale or point-of-distribution review.

(b)Except as provided in ยง 456.703 (b) and (c), the State plan must provide for point-of-sale or point-of-distribution review of drug therapy using predetermined standards before each prescription is filled or delivered to the beneficiary or the beneficiary's caregiver. The review must include screening to identify potential drug therapy problems of the following types:

(1) Therapeutic duplication, that is, the prescribing and dispensing of two or more drugs from the same therapeutic class such that the combined daily dose puts the beneficiary at risk of an adverse medical result or incurs additional program costs without additional therapeutic benefit.

(2) Drug-disease contraindication, that is, the potential for, or the occurrence of-

(i) An undesirable alteration of the therapeutic effect of a given drug because of the presence, in the patient for whom it is prescribed, of a disease condition; or

(ii) An adverse effect of the drug on the patient's disease condition.

(3) Adverse drug-drug interaction, that is, the potential for, or occurrence of, a clinically significant adverse medical effect as a result of the beneficiary using two or more drugs together.

(4) Incorrect drug dosage, that is, the dosage lies outside the daily dosage specified in predetermined standards as necessary to achieve therapeutic benefit. Dosage is the strength multiplied by the quantity dispensed divided by day's supply.

(5) Incorrect duration of drug treatment, that is, the number of days of prescribed therapy exceeds or falls short of the recommendations contained in the predetermined standards.

(6) Drug-allergy interactions, that is, the significant potential for, or the occurrence of, an allergic reaction as a result of drug therapy.

(7) Clinical abuse/misuse, that is, the occurrence of situations referred to in the definitions of abuse, gross overuse, overutilization, and underutilization, as defined in ยง 456.702, and incorrect dosage and incorrect duration, as defined in paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section, respectively.
