
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart K - Drug Use Review (DUR) Program and Electronic Claims Management System for Outpatient Drug Claims
###### ยง 456.722 Electronic claims management system.
####### Functional requirements.

(b)The ECM system developed by the State must include at least the on-line, real-time capabilities specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The real-time requirement for prescriptions filled for nursing facilities and prescriptions filled by mail order dispensers may be waived by the State to permit claims to be processed in the batch mode at the end of the day or other time mutually agreed to by the nursing facility or mail order dispenser and Medicaid agency.

(1) Eligibility verification, including identification of the following:

(i) Third-party payers.

(ii) beneficiaries in managed care programs.

(iii) beneficiaries and providers in restricted service programs (for example, lock-in and lock-out).

(iv) Properly enrolled providers.

(2) Claims data capture, including the following:

(i) Transfer of claims information from the pharmacy to the Medicaid agency or the Medicaid agency's contractor.

(ii) Identification of prescriber.

(iii) Minimum data set (as defined in Part 11 of the State Medicaid Manual).

(3) Claims adjudication, including the following:

(i) Performing all edits and audits contained in the State's Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS) applicable to prescription drugs.

(ii) Notifying the pharmacist (or other authorized person, such as the dispensing physician) about the claim status.

(iii) Taking steps up to, but not including, payment of the claim.
