
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Medical Assistance Programs
#### PART 456 - UTILIZATION CONTROL
##### Subpart K - Drug Use Review (DUR) Program and Electronic Claims Management System for Outpatient Drug Claims
###### ยง 456.722 Electronic claims management system.
####### Additional requirements.

(c)In order to receive FFP for its ECM system, the State must meet the following requirements:

(1) The ECM system must be acquired through applicable competitive procurement process in the State and must be the most cost-effective telecommunications network and automatic data processing services and equipment. The procurement must meet the procurement requirements set forth in 45 CFR part 75.326 through 75.340. The request for proposal (RFP) may be substituted for the advance planning and implementation documents otherwise required by part 433 of this chapter, 45 CFR 95.205, and 45 CFR part 307. A cost-benefit analysis must accompany the RFP. If in its advance planning document, a State establishes that a separate procurement is not cost-effective, modification of an existing fiscal agent contract will be acceptable. In this case, procurement of network services and equipment (but not software modifications) must be competitively procured.

(2) States wishing to do prospective DUR as part of their ECM must do the following:

(i) Submit a cost benefit analysis showing the cost-effectiveness of such a system. A State's decisions as to who must participate in the ECM system and who may decline to do so must be included in the cost-benefit analysis.

(ii) Establish a central State-wide electronic repository for capturing, storing, and updating data for all prescriptions dispensed and for providing access to such data by all authorized participants.

(iii) Design the system to assess data for a review of drug therapy before each prescription is filled or delivered to a Medicaid beneficiary. The type of review conducted must meet the requirements for prospective drug review set forth in ยง 456.705.

(3) ECM is considered a subsystem and must be fully integrated with the remainder of the State's MMIS. In addition, information about ECM claims must be part of the single comprehensive utilization and management reporting system used by the DUR program.
