
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart A - Introduction; State Plans for Child Health Insurance Programs and Outreach Strategies
###### ยง 457.10 Definitions and use of terms.
####### Primary care case management entity (PCCM entity)

means an organization that provides any of the following functions, in addition to primary care case management services, for the State:

(1) Provision of intensive telephonic or face-to-face case management, including operation of a nurse triage advice line.

(2) Development of enrollee care plans.

(3) Execution of contracts with and/or oversight responsibilities for the activities of fee-for-service providers in the fee-for-service program.

(4) Provision of payments to fee-for-service providers on behalf of the State.

(5) Provision of enrollee outreach and education activities.

(6) Operation of a customer service call center.

(7) Review of provider claims, utilization and practice patterns to conduct provider profiling and/or practice improvement.

(8) Implementation of quality improvement activities including administering enrollee satisfaction surveys or collecting data necessary for performance measurement of providers.

(9) Coordination with behavioral health systems/providers.

(10) Coordination with long-term services and supports systems/providers.
