
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart A - Introduction; State Plans for Child Health Insurance Programs and Outreach Strategies
###### § 457.60 Amendments.

A State may seek to amend its approved State plan in whole or in part at any time through the submission of an amendment to CMS. The Secretary will periodically specify updated requirements on the format of State plan amendments through a process consistent with the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act. When the State plan amendment has a significant impact on the approved budget, the amendment must include an amended budget that describes the State's planned expenditures for a 1-year period. A State must amend its State plan whenever necessary to reflect-

(a) Changes in Federal law, regulations, policy interpretations, or court decisions that affect provisions in the approved State plan;

(b) Changes in State law, organization, policy, or operation of the program that affect the following program elements described in the State plan:

(1) Eligibility standards, enrollment caps, and disenrollment policies as described in § 457.305.

(2) Procedures to prevent substitution of private coverage as described in § 457.805, and in § 457.810 for premium assistance programs.

(3) The type of health benefits coverage offered, consistent with the options described in § 457.410.

(4) Addition or deletion of specific categories of benefits covered under the State plan.

(5) Basic delivery system approach as described in § 457.490.

(6) Cost-sharing as described in § 457.505.

(7) Screen and enroll procedures, and other Medicaid coordination procedures as described in § 457.350.

(8) Review procedures as described in § 457.1120.

(9) Other comparable required program elements.

(c) Changes in the source of the State share of funding, except for changes in the type of non-health care related revenues used to generate general revenue.
