
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart A - Introduction; State Plans for Child Health Insurance Programs and Outreach Strategies
###### ยง 457.160 Notice and timing of CMS action on State plan material.
####### Timing.

(b)(1) A State plan or plan amendment will be considered approved unless CMS, within 90 calendar days after receipt of the State plan or plan amendment in the CMS central office, sends the State-

(i) Written notice of disapproval; or

(ii) Written notice of additional information it needs in order to make a final determination.

(2) A State plan or plan amendment is considered received when the designated official or individual, as determined in ยง 457.150(d) and (e), receives an electronic, fax or paper copy of the complete material.

(3) If CMS requests additional information, the 90-day review period for CMS action on the State plan or plan amendment-

(i) Stops on the day CMS sends a written request for additional information or the next business day if the request is sent on a Federal holiday or weekend; and

(ii) Resumes on the next calendar day after the CMS designated individual receives an electronic, fax, or hard copy from the State of all the requested additional information, unless the information is received after 5 p.m. eastern standard time on a day prior to a non-business day or any time on a non-business day, in which case the review period resumes on the following business day.

(4) The 90-day review period cannot stop or end on a non-business day. If the 90th calendar day falls on a non-business day, CMS will consider the 90th day to be the next business day.

(5) CMS may send written notice of its need for additional information as many times as necessary to obtain the complete information necessary to review the State plan or plan amendment.
