
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart D - State Plan Requirements: Coverage and Benefits
###### ยง 457.450 Secretary-approved coverage.

Secretary-approved coverage is health benefits coverage that, in the determination of the Secretary, provides appropriate coverage for the population of targeted low-income children covered under the program. Secretary-approved coverage, for which no actuarial analysis is required, may include, but is not limited to the following:

(a) Coverage that is the same as the coverage provided to children under the Medicaid State plan.

(b) Comprehensive coverage for children offered by the State under a Medicaid demonstration project approved by the Secretary under section 1115 of the Act.

(c) Coverage that either includes the full Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment (EPSDT) benefit or that the State has extended to the entire Medicaid population in the State.

(d) Coverage that includes benchmark health benefits coverage, as specified in ยง 457.420, plus any additional coverage.

(e) Coverage that is the same as the coverage provided under ยง 457.440.

(f) Coverage, including coverage under a group health plan purchased by the State, that the State demonstrates to be substantially equivalent to or greater than coverage under a benchmark health benefits plan, as specified in ยง 457.420, through use of a benefit-by-benefit comparison which demonstrates that coverage for each benefit meets or exceeds the corresponding coverage under the benchmark health benefits plan.
