
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart E - State Plan Requirements: Enrollee Financial Responsibilities
###### ยง 457.570 Disenrollment protections.

(a) The State must give enrollees reasonable notice of and an opportunity to pay past due premiums, copayments, coinsurance, deductibles or similar fees prior to disenrollment.

(b) The disenrollment process must afford the enrollee an opportunity to show that the enrollee's household income has declined prior to disenrollment for non payment of cost-sharing charges, and in the event that such a showing indicates that the enrollee may have become eligible for Medicaid or for a lower level of cost sharing, the State must facilitate enrolling the child in Medicaid or adjust the child's cost-sharing category as appropriate.

(c) The State must ensure that disenrollment policies, such as policies related to non-payment of premiums, do not present barriers to the timely determination of eligibility and enrollment in coverage of an eligible child in the appropriate insurance affordability program. A State may not-

(1) Establish a premium lock-out period that exceeds 90-days in accordance with ยง 457.10 of this part.

(2) Continue to impose a premium lock-out period after a child's past due premiums have been paid.

(3) Require the collection of past due premiums or enrollment fees as a condition of eligibility for reenrollment once the State-defined lock out period has expired, regardless of the length of the lock-out period.

(d) The State must provide the enrollee with an opportunity for an impartial review to address disenrollment from the program in accordance with ยง 457.1130(a)(3).
