
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart F - Payments to States
###### ยง 457.608 Process and calculation of State allotments prior to FY 2009.
####### Determination of State allotments for a fiscal year,General.

(e)-(1)The allotment for a State and the District of Columbia for a fiscal year is the product of:

(i) The proportion for the State or the District of Columbia for the fiscal year, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and determined after application of the provisions of paragraphs (e)(2) and (3), related to the preadjusted proportion, and the floors, ceilings, and reconciliation process, respectively; and

(ii)(A) The national total allotment amount available for allotment for the fiscal year, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The State and the District of Columbia's allotment for a fiscal year is determined in accordance with the following general formula:

(B) There are two steps for determining the proportion for a State and the District of Columbia. The first step determines the preadjusted proportions, and is described under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The first step applies in determining the proportion for all fiscal years. The second step applies floors and ceilings and, if necessary, applies a reconciliation to the preadjusted proportion. The second step is described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The second step applies in determining the proportion only for FY 2000 and subsequent fiscal years. For FY 1998 and FY 1999, the preadjusted proportion is the State or District of Columbia's proportion for the fiscal year.
