
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart F - Payments to States
###### ยง 457.609 Process and calculation of State allotments for a fiscal year after FY 2008.
####### Increase in State allotment for the 50 States and the District of Columbia for FY 2010 through FY 2015 to account for approved program expansions.

(g)In the case of the 50 States and the District of Columbia, the State allotment for FY 2010 through FY 2015, as determined in accordance with the provisions of this section, may be increased under the following conditions and amounts:

(1) The State has submitted to the Secretary, and has approved by the Secretary a State plan amendment or waiver request relating to an expansion of eligibility for children or benefits under title XXI of the Act that becomes effective for a fiscal year (beginning with FY 2010 and ending with FY 2015).

(2) The State has submitted to the Secretary, before the August 31 preceding the beginning of the fiscal year, a request for an expansion allotment adjustment under this paragraph for such fiscal year that specifies.

(i) The additional expenditures that are attributable to the eligibility or benefit expansion provided under the amendment or waiver described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, as certified by the State and submitted to the Secretary by not later than August 31 preceding the beginning of the fiscal year.

(ii) The extent to which such additional expenditures are projected to exceed the allotment of the State or District for the year.

(3) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section relating to proration, the amount of the allotment of the State or District under this section for such fiscal year shall be increased by the excess amount described in paragraph (g)(2)(i)of this section. A State or District may only obtain an increase under paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section for an allotment for FY 2010, FY 2012, or FY 2014.
