
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart F - Payments to States
###### ยง 457.630 Grants procedures.
####### General provisions.

(a)Once CMS has approved a State child health plan, CMS makes quarterly grant awards to the State to cover the Federal share of expenditures for child health assistance, other child health assistance, special health initiatives, outreach and administration.

(1) For fiscal year 1998, a State must submit a budget request in an appropriate format for the 4 quarters of the fiscal year. CMS bases the grant awards for the 4 quarters of fiscal year 1998 based on the State's budget requests for those quarters.

(2) For fiscal years after 1998, a State must submit a budget request in an appropriate format for the first 3 quarters of the fiscal year. CMS bases the grant awards for the first 3 quarters of the fiscal year on the State's budget requests for those quarters.

(3) For fiscal years after 1998, a State must also submit a budget request for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. The amount of this quarter's grant award is based on the difference between a State's final allotment for the fiscal year, and the total of the grants for the first 3 quarters that were already issued in order to ensure that the total of all grant awards for the fiscal year are equal to the State's final allotment for that fiscal year.

(4) The amount of the quarterly grant is determined on the basis of information submitted by the State (in quarterly estimate and quarterly expenditure reports) and other pertinent information. This information must be submitted by the State through the Medicaid Budget and Expenditure System (MBES) for the Medicaid program, and through the Child Health Budget and Expenditure System (CBES) for the title XXI program.
