
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart F - Payments to States
###### ยง 457.622 Rate of FFP for State expenditures.
####### Exception.

(2)FFP is available under title XXI, at the enhanced FFP rate, for Medicaid administrative expenditures attributable to the provision of medical assistance to children described in sections 1905(u)(2) and 1905(u)(3), and during the presumptive eligibility period described in section 1920A of the Act, to the extent that the State does not claim those costs under the Medicaid program.

(3) FFP is not available in expenditures for administrative activities for items or services included within the scope of another claimed expenditure.

(4) FFP is available in expenditures for activities defined in sections 2102(c)(1) and 2105(a)(2)(C) of the Act as outreach to families of children likely to be eligible for child health assistance under the plan or under other public or private health coverage programs to inform these families of the availability of, and to assist them in enrolling their children in such a program.

(5) FFP is available in administrative expenditures for activities specified in sections 2102(c)(2) of the Act as coordination of the administration of the Children's Health Insurance Program with other public and private health insurance programs. FFP would not be available for the costs of administering the other public and private health insurance programs. Coordination activities must be distinguished from other administrative activities common among different programs.
