
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart I - Program Integrity
###### ยง 457.935 Sanctions and related penalties.

(a) A State may not make payments for any item or service furnished, ordered, or prescribed under a separate child health program to any provider who has been excluded from participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

(b) The following provisions and their corresponding regulations apply to a State under title XXI, in the same manner as these provisions and regulations apply to a State under title XIX:

(1) Part 455, subpart B of this chapter.

(2) Section 1124 of the Act pertaining to disclosure of ownership and related information.

(3) Section 1126 of the Act pertaining to disclosure by institutions, organizations, and agencies of owners and certain other individuals who have been convicted of certain offenses.

(4) Section 1128 of the Act pertaining to exclusions.

(5) Section 1128A of the Act pertaining to civil monetary penalties.

(6) Section 1128B of the Act pertaining to criminal penalties for acts involving Federal health care programs.

(7) Section 1128E of the Act pertaining to the reporting of final adverse actions on liability findings made against health care providers, suppliers, and practitioners under the health care fraud and abuse data collection program.
