
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart L - Managed Care
###### General Provisions
####### § 457.1206 Non-emergency medical transportation PAHPs.

(a) For purposes of this section Non-Emergency Medical Transportation (NEMT) Prepaid Ambulatory Health Plan (PAHP) means an entity that provides only NEMT services to enrollees under contract with the State, and on the basis of prepaid capitation payments, or other payment arrangements that do not use State plan payment rates.

(b) The following requirements and options apply to NEMT PAHPs, NEMT PAHP contracts, and States in connection with NEMT PAHPs, to the same extent that they apply to PAHPs, PAHP contracts, and States in connection with PAHPs.

(1) All contract provisions in § 457.1201 except those set forth in § 457.1201(h) (related to physician incentive plans) § 457.1201(l) (related to mental health parity).

(2) The information requirements in § 457.1207.

(3) The provision against provider discrimination in § 457.1208.

(4) The State responsibility provisions in §§ 457.1212 and 457.1214, and § 438.62(a) of this chapter, as cross-referenced in § 457.1216.

(5) The provisions on enrollee rights and protections in §§ 457.1220, 457.1222, 457.1224, and 457.1226.

(6) The PAHP standards in § 438.206(b)(1) of this chapter, as cross-referenced by §§ 457.1230(a), 457.1230(d), and 457.1233(a), (b) and (d).

(7) An enrollee's right to a State review under subpart K of this part.

(8) Prohibitions against affiliations with individuals debarred or excluded by Federal agencies in § 438.610 of this chapter, as cross referenced by § 457.1285.

(9) Requirements relating to contracts involving Indians, Indian Health Care Providers, and Indian managed care entities in § 457.1209.
