
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIPs)
#### PART 457 - ALLOTMENTS AND GRANTS TO STATES
##### Subpart L - Managed Care
###### Grievance System
####### ยง 457.1260 Grievance system.
######## Resolution and notification: Grievances and appeals.

(e)(1) The State must ensure that its contracted MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs comply with the provisions at ยง 438.408(b) (relating to the timeframe for resolution of grievances and appeals), (c)(1) and (2) (the extension of timeframes for resolution of grievances and appeals), (d) (relating to the format of the notice of resolution for grievances and appeals), and (e)(1) (relating to the content of the notice of resolution for grievances and appeals) of this chapter.

(2) Each MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must resolve each grievance and appeal, and provide notice, as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, within State-established timeframes that may not exceed the timeframes specified in this paragraph (e).

(3) In the case of an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP that fails to adhere to the notice and timing requirements in this section, the enrollee is deemed to have exhausted the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's appeals process. The enrollee may initiate a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part.

(4) For appeals not resolved wholly in favor of an enrollee, in addition to the information required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section and ยง 438.408(e)(1) of this chapter, the content of the notice of appeal resolution must include the enrollee's right to request a State external review in accordance with the terms of subpart K of this part, and how to do so.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, an enrollee may request a State external review only after receiving notice that the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP is upholding the adverse benefit determination. The State must provide enrollees no less than 90 calendar days and no more than 120 calendar days from the date of the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's notice of resolution to request a State external review. The parties to the State external review include the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP, as well as the enrollee and his or her representative or the representative of a deceased enrollee's estate.
