
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart D - Sanctions, Enforcement Actions, and Termination
###### § 460.46 Civil money penalties.

(a) CMS may impose civil money penalties up to the maximum amounts specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. These amounts will be adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Sec. 701 of Pub. L. 114-74) and updated amounts specified in 45 CFR part 102.

(1) For each violation regarding enrollment or disenrollment specified in § 460.40(a)(3) or (4), $100,000 plus $15,000 for each individual not enrolled as a result of the PACE organization's discrimination in enrollment or disenrollment or practice that would deny or discourage enrollment.

(2) For each violation regarding excessive premiums specified in § 460.40(a)(5), $25,000 plus double the excess amount above the permitted premium charged a participant by the PACE organization. (The excess amount charged is deducted from the penalty and returned to the participant).

(3) For each misrepresentation or falsification of information, specified in § 460.40(a)(6)(i), $100,000.

(4) For any other violation specified in § 460.40, $25,000.

(b) The provisions of section 1128A of the Act (other than subsections (a) and (b)) apply to a civil money penalty under this section in the same manner as they apply to a civil money penalty or proceeding under section 1128A(a).
