
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart E - PACE Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 460.70 Contracted services.
####### Content of contract.

(d)Each contract must be in writing and include the following information:

(1) Name of contractor.

(2) Services furnished (including work schedule if appropriate).

(3) Payment rate and method.

(4) Terms of the contract, including beginning and ending dates, methods of extension, renegotiation, and termination.

(5) Contractor agreement to do the following:

(i) Furnish only those services authorized by the PACE interdisciplinary team.

(ii) Accept payment from the PACE organization as payment in full, and not bill participants, CMS, the State administering agency, or private insurers.

(iii) Hold harmless CMS, the State, and PACE participants if the PACE organization does not pay for services performed by the contractor in accordance with the contract.

(iv) Not assign the contract or delegate duties under the contract unless it obtains prior written approval from the PACE organization.

(v) Submit reports required by the PACE organization.

(6) With respect to an individual who is contracting as a program director or medical director or to be part of the interdisciplinary team as set forth at ยง 460.60(a) and (b) and ยง 460.102(b), the contract must specify that the individual agrees to:

(i) Perform all the duties related to its position as specified in this part.

(ii) Participate in interdisciplinary team meetings as required.

(iii) Be accountable to the PACE organization.

(iv) Cooperate with the competency evaluation program and direct participant care requirements specified in ยง 460.71.
