
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart E - PACE Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 460.78 Dietary services.
####### Meal requirements.

(a)(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, the PACE organization must ensure, through the assessment and care planning process, that each participant receives nourishing, palatable, well-balanced meals that meet the participant's daily nutritional and special dietary needs. Each meal must meet the following requirements:

(i) Be prepared by methods that conserve nutritive value, flavor, and appearance.

(ii) Be prepared in a form designed to meet individual needs.

(iii) Be prepared and served at the proper temperature.

(2) The PACE organization must provide substitute foods or nutritional supplements that meet the daily nutritional and special dietary needs of any participant who has any of the following problems:

(i) Refuses the food served.

(ii) Cannot tolerate the food served.

(iii) Does not eat adequately.

(3) The PACE organization must provide nutrition support to meet the daily nutritional needs of a participant, if indicated by his or her medical condition or diagnosis. Nutrition support consists of tube feedings, total parenteral nutrition, or peripheral parenteral nutrition.
