
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart E - PACE Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 460.84 Emergency preparedness.
####### Policies and procedures.

(b)The PACE organization must develop and implement emergency preparedness policies and procedures, based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, risk assessment at paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the communication plan at paragraph (c) of this section. The policies and procedures must address management of medical and nonmedical emergencies, including, but not limited to: Fire; equipment, power, or water failure; care-related emergencies; and natural disasters likely to threaten the health or safety of the participants, staff, or the public. Policies and procedures must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. At a minimum, the policies and procedures must address the following:

(1) The provision of subsistence needs for staff and participants, whether they evacuate or shelter in place, include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Food, water, and medical supplies.

(ii) Alternate sources of energy to maintain the following:

(A) Temperatures to protect participant health and safety and for the safe and sanitary storage of provisions.

(B) Emergency lighting.

(C) Fire detection, extinguishing, and alarm systems.

(D) Sewage and waste disposal.

(2) A system to track the location of on-duty staff and sheltered participants under the PACE center(s) care during and after an emergency. If on-duty staff and sheltered participants are relocated during the emergency, the PACE must document the specific name and location of the receiving facility or other location.

(3) Safe evacuation from the PACE center, which includes consideration of care and treatment needs of evacuees; staff responsibilities; transportation; identification of evacuation location(s); and primary and alternate means of communication with external sources of assistance.

(4) The procedures to inform State and local emergency preparedness officials about PACE participants in need of evacuation from their residences at any time due to an emergency situation based on the participant's medical and psychiatric conditions and home environment.

(5) A means to shelter in place for participants, staff, and volunteers who remain in the facility.

(6) A system of medical documentation that preserves participant information, protects confidentiality of participant information, and secures and maintains the availability of records.

(7) The use of volunteers in an emergency or other emergency staffing strategies, including the process and role for integration of State or Federally designated health care professionals to address surge needs during an emergency.

(8) The development of arrangements with other PACE organizations, PACE centers, or other providers to receive participants in the event of limitations or cessation of operations to maintain the continuity of services to PACE participants.

(9) The role of the PACE organization under a waiver declared by the Secretary, in accordance with section 1135 of the Act, in the provision of care and treatment at an alternate care site identified by emergency management officials.

(10)(i) Emergency equipment, including easily portable oxygen, airways, suction, and emergency drugs.

(ii) Staff who know how to use the equipment must be on the premises of every center at all times and be immediately available.

(iii) A documented plan to obtain emergency medical assistance from outside sources when needed.
