
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart E - PACE Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 460.82 Marketing.
####### Prohibited marketing practices.

(e)A PACE organization must not use the following marketing practices, which are prohibited:

(1) Discrimination of any kind, except that marketing may be directed to individuals eligible for PACE by reason of their age.

(2) Activities that could mislead or confuse potential participants, or misrepresent the PACE organization, CMS, or the State administering agency.

(3) Gifts or payments to induce enrollment, unless the gifts are of nominal value as defined in CMS guidance, are offered to all potential enrollees without regard to whether they enroll in the PACE program, and are not in the form of cash or other monetary rebates.

(4) Marketing by any individual or entity that is directly or indirectly compensated by the PACE organization based on activities or outcomes unless the individual or entity has been appropriately trained on PACE program requirements, including but not limited to, subparts G and I of this part.

(i) PACE organizations are responsible for the activities of contracted individuals or entities who market on their behalf.

(ii) PACE organizations that choose to use contracted individuals or entities for marketing purposes must develop a method to document training has been provided.

(5) Unsolicited door-to-door marketing or other unsolicited means of direct contact, including calling or emailing a potential or current participant without the individual initiating the contact.
