
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart E - PACE Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 460.84 Emergency preparedness.
####### Communication plan.

(c)The PACE organization must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, State, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. The communication plan must include all of the following:

(1) Names and contact information for staff; entities providing services under arrangement; participants' physicians; other PACE organizations; and volunteers.

(2) Contact information for the following:

(i) Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency preparedness staff.

(ii) Other sources of assistance.

(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the following:

(i) PACE organization's staff.

(ii) Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency management agencies.

(4) A method for sharing information and medical documentation for participants under the organization's care, as necessary, with other health care providers to maintain the continuity of care.

(5) A means, in the event of an evacuation, to release participant information as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(1)(ii).

(6) A means of providing information about the general condition and location of participants under the facility's care as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(4).

(7) A means of providing information about the PACE organization's needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction, the Incident Command Center, or designee.
