
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart G - Participant Rights
###### ยง 460.112 Specific rights to which a participant is entitled.
####### Choice of providers.

(c)Each participant has the right to a choice of health care providers, within the PACE organization's network, that is sufficient to ensure access to appropriate high-quality health care. Specifically, each participant has the right to the following:

(1) To choose his or her primary care physician and specialists from within the PACE network.

(2) To request that a qualified specialist for women's health services furnish routine or preventive women's health services.

(3) To have reasonable and timely access to specialists as indicated by the participant's health condition and consistent with current clinical practice guidelines.

(4) To receive necessary care in all care settings, up to and including placement in a long-term care facility when the PACE organization can no longer provide the services necessary to maintain the participant safely in the community.

(5) To disenroll from the program at any time and have such disenrollment be effective the first day of the month following the date the PACE organization receives the participant's notice of voluntary disenrollment as set forth in ยง 460.162(a).
