
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart G - Participant Rights
###### § 460.112 Specific rights to which a participant is entitled.
####### Participation in treatment decisions.

(e)Each participant has the right to participate fully in all decisions related to his or her treatment. A participant who is unable to participate fully in treatment decisions has the right to designate a representative. Specifically, each participant has the following rights:

(1) To have all treatment options explained in a culturally competent manner and to make health care decisions, including the right to refuse treatment, and be informed of the consequences of the decisions.

(2) To have the PACE organization explain advance directives and to establish them, if the participant so desires, in accordance with §§ 489.100 and 489.102 of this chapter.

(3) To be fully informed of his or her health and functional status by the interdisciplinary team.

(4) To participate in the development and implementation of the plan of care.

(5) To request a reassessment by the interdisciplinary team.

(6) To be given reasonable advance notice, in writing, of any transfer to another treatment setting and the justification for the transfer (that is, due to medical reasons or for the participant's welfare, or that of other participants). The PACE organization must document the justification in the participant's medical record.
