
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart G - Participant Rights
###### ยง 460.112 Specific rights to which a participant is entitled.
####### Information disclosure.

(b)Each PACE participant has the right to receive accurate, easily understood information and to receive assistance in making informed health care decisions. Specifically, each participant has the following rights:

(1) To be fully informed in writing of the services available from the PACE organization, including identification of all services that are delivered through contracts, rather than furnished directly by the PACE organization at the following times:

(i) Prior to and upon enrollment in the PACE organization.

(ii) At the time a participant's needs necessitate the disclosure and delivery of such information in order to allow the participant to make an informed choice.

(2) To have the enrollment agreement, described in ยง 460.154, fully explained in a manner understood by the participant.

(3) To examine, or upon reasonable request, to be helped to examine the results of the most recent review of the PACE organization conducted by CMS or the State administering agency and any plan of correction in effect.

(4) To contact 1-800-MEDICARE for information and assistance, including to make a complaint related to the quality of care or the delivery of a service.
