
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart G - Participant Rights
###### ยง 460.121 Service determination process.
####### Notice of decisions to deny a service determination request.

(2)If the interdisciplinary team decides to deny or partially deny a service, it must provide the participant or the designated representative both oral and written notice of the determination. Notice of any denial must-

(i) State the specific reason(s) for the denial, including why the service is not necessary to maintain or improve the participant's overall health status, taking into account the participant's medical, physical, emotional, and social needs, and the results of the reassessment(s) in understandable language.

(ii) Inform the participant or designated representative of his or her right to appeal the decision under ยง 460.122.

(iii) Describe the standard and expedited appeals processes, including the right to, and conditions for, obtaining expedited consideration of an appeal of a denial of services as specified in ยง 460.122.

(iv) For a Medicaid participant, inform the participant of both of the following, as specified in ยง 460.122(e)(1):

(A) His or her right to continue receiving disputed services during the appeals process until issuance of the final determination.

(B) The conditions for continuing to receive disputed services.
