
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart G - Participant Rights
###### § 460.122 PACE organization's appeals process.
####### Minimum requirements.

(c)At a minimum, the PACE organization's appeals process must include written procedures for the following:

(1) Timely preparation and processing of a written denial of coverage or payment as provided in §§ 460.121(i) and (m).

(2) How a participant or their designated representative files an appeal, including procedures for accepting oral and written appeal requests.

(3) Documentation of a participant's appeal.

(4) Review of an appeal by an appropriate third party reviewer or committee. An appropriate third party reviewer or member of a review committee must be an individual who meets all of the following:

(i) Appropriately credentialed in the field(s) or discipline(s) related to the appeal.

(ii) An impartial third party who meets both of the following:

(A) Was not involved in the original action.

(B) Does not have a stake in the outcome of the appeal.

(5) The distribution of written or electronic materials to the third party reviewer or committee that, at a minimum, explain all of the following:

(i) Services must be provided in a manner consistent with the requirements in §§ 460.92 and 460.98.

(ii) The need to make decisions in a manner consistent with how determinations under section 1862(a)(1)(A) of the Act are made.

(iii) The rules in § 460.90(a) that specify that certain limitations and conditions applicable to Medicare or Medicaid or both benefits do not apply.

(6) Responses to, and resolution of, appeals as expeditiously as the participant's health condition requires, but no later than 30 calendar days after the organization receives an appeal.

(7) Maintenance of confidentiality of appeals.
