
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart I - Participant Enrollment and Disenrollment
###### ยง 460.152 Enrollment process.
####### Intake process.

(a)Intake is an intensive process during which PACE staff members make one or more visits to a potential participant's place of residence and the potential participant makes one or more visits to the PACE center. At a minimum, the intake process must include the following activities:

(1) The PACE staff must explain to the potential participant and his or her representative or caregiver the following information:

(i) The PACE program, using a copy of the enrollment agreement described in ยง 460.154, specifically references the elements of the agreement including but not limited to ยง 460.154(e), (i) through (m), and (r).

(ii) The requirement that the PACE organization would be the participant's sole service provider and clarification that the PACE organization guarantees access to services, but not to a specific provider.

(iii) A list of the employees of the PACE organization who furnish care and the most current list of contracted health care providers under ยง 460.70(c).

(iv) Monthly premiums, if any.

(v) Any Medicaid spenddown obligations.

(vi) Post-eligibility treatment of income.

(2) The potential participant must sign a release to allow the PACE organization to obtain his or her medical and financial information and eligibility status for Medicare and Medicaid.

(3) The State administering agency must assess the potential participant, including any individual who is not eligible for Medicaid, to ensure that he or she needs the level of care required under the State Medicaid plan for coverage of nursing facility services, which indicates that the individual's health status is comparable to the health status of individuals who have participated in the PACE demonstration waiver programs.

(4) PACE staff must assess the potential participant to ensure that he or she can be cared for appropriately in a community setting and that he or she meets all requirements for PACE eligibility specified in this part.
