
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart I - Participant Enrollment and Disenrollment
###### § 460.164 Involuntary disenrollment.
####### Reasons for involuntary disenrollment.

(b)A participant may be involuntarily disenrolled for any of the following reasons:

(1) The participant, after a 30-day grace period, fails to pay or make satisfactory arrangements to pay any premium due the PACE organization.

(2) The participant, after a 30-day grace period, fails to pay or make satisfactory arrangements to pay any applicable Medicaid spend down liability or any amount due under the post-eligibility treatment of income process, as permitted under §§ 460.182 and 460.184.

(3) The participant or the participant's caregiver engages in disruptive or threatening behavior, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) The participant engages in disruptive or threatening behavior, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) The participant moves out of the PACE program service area or is out of the service area for more than 30 consecutive days, unless the PACE organization agrees to a longer absence due to extenuating circumstances.

(6) The participant is determined to no longer meet the State Medicaid nursing facility level of care requirements and is not deemed eligible.

(7) The PACE program agreement with CMS and the State administering agency is not renewed or is terminated.

(8) The PACE organization is unable to offer health care services due to the loss of State licenses or contracts with outside providers.
