
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart J - Payment
###### § 460.180 Medicare payment to PACE organizations.
####### Determination of rate.

(b)(1) The PACE program agreement specifies the methodology used to calculate the monthly capitation amount applicable to a PACE organization.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the monthly capitation amount is based on the Part A and Part B payment rates established for purposes of payment to Medicare Advantage organizations. As used in this section, "Medicare Advantage rates" means the Part A and Part B rates calculated by CMS for making payment to Medicare Advantage organizations under section 1853(c) of the Act.

(3) CMS will adjust the monthly capitation payment amount derived under paragraph (b)(2) of this section based on a risk adjustment that reflects the individual's health status. CMS will ensure that payments take into account the comparative frailty of PACE enrollees relative to the general Medicare population.

(4) For Medicare participants who require ESRD services, the monthly capitation amount is based on the Medicare Advantage ESRD risk adjustment model.

(5) CMS may adjust the monthly capitation amount to take into account other factors CMS determines to be appropriate.

(6) The monthly capitation payment is a fixed amount, regardless of changes in the participant's health status.

(7) The monthly capitation payment amount is an all-inclusive payment for Medicare benefits provided to participants. A PACE organization must not seek any additional payment from Medicare. The only additional payment that a PACE organization may collect from, or on behalf of, a Medicare participant for PACE services is the following:

(i) Any applicable premium amount specified in § 460.186.

(ii) Any charge permitted under paragraph (d) of this section when Medicare is not the primary payer.

(iii) Any payment from the State, as specified in § 460.182, for a participant who is eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid.

(iv) Payment with respect to any applicable spenddown liability under §§ 435.121 and 435.831 of this chapter and any amount due under the post-eligibility treatment of income process under § 460.184 for a participant who is eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid.

(8) CMS computes the Medicare monthly capitation payment amount under a PACE program agreement so that the total payment level for all participants is less than the projected payment under Medicare for a comparable population not enrolled under a PACE program.
