
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE)
#### PART 460 - PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE)
##### Subpart L - Data Collection, Record Maintenance, and Reporting
###### ยง 460.210 Medical records.
####### Content of medical records.

(b)At a minimum, the medical record must contain the following:

(1) Appropriate identifying information.

(2) Documentation of all services furnished, including the following:

(i) A summary of emergency care and other inpatient or long-term care services.

(ii) Services furnished by employees of the PACE center.

(iii) Services furnished by contractors and their reports.

(3) Interdisciplinary assessments, reassessments, plans of care, treatment, and progress notes that include the participant's response to treatment.

(4) All recommendations for services made by employees or contractors of the PACE organization, including specialists.

(5) If a service recommended by an employee or contractor of the PACE organization, including a specialist, is not approved or provided, the reason(s) for not approving or providing that service.

(6) Original documentation, or an unaltered electronic copy, of any written communication the PACE organization receives relating to the care, health or safety of a participant, in any format (for example, emails, faxes, letters, etc.) and including, but not limited to the following:

(i) Communications from the participant, his or her designated representative, a family member, a caregiver, or any other individual who provides information pertinent to a participant's health or safety or both.

(ii) Communications from an advocacy or governmental agency such as Adult Protective Services.

(7) Laboratory, radiological and other test reports.

(8) Medication records.

(9) Hospital discharge summaries, if applicable.

(10) Reports of contact with informal support (for example, caregiver, legal guardian, or next of kin).

(11) Enrollment Agreement.

(12) Physician orders.

(13) Discharge summary and disenrollment justification, if applicable.

(14) Advance directives, if applicable.

(15) A signed release permitting disclosure of personal information.
