
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 59 - GRANTS FOR FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
##### Subpart A - Project Grants for Family Planning Services
###### ยง 59.5 What requirements must be met by a family planning project?

(a) Each project supported under this part must:

(1) Provide a broad range of acceptable and effective medically approved family planning methods (including natural family planning methods) and services (including pregnancy testing and counseling, assistance to achieve pregnancy, basic infertility services, STI services, preconception health services, and adolescent-friendly health services). If an organization offers only a single method of family planning, it may participate as part of a project as long as the entire project offers a broad range of acceptable and effective medically approved family planning methods and services. Title X service sites that are unable to provide clients with access to a broad range of acceptable and effective medically approved family planning methods and services, must be able to provide a prescription to the client for their method of choice or referrals to another provider, as requested.

(2) Provide services without subjecting individuals to any coercion to accept services or to employ or not to employ any particular methods of family planning. Acceptance of services must be solely on a voluntary basis and may not be made a prerequisite to eligibility for, or receipt of, any other services, assistance from or participation in any other program of the applicant.

(3) Provide services in a manner that is client-centered, culturally and linguistically appropriate, inclusive, and trauma-informed; protects the dignity of the individual; and ensures equitable and quality service delivery consistent with nationally recognized standards of care.

(4) Provide services in a manner that does not discriminate against any client based on religion, race, color, national origin, disability, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, sex characteristics, number of pregnancies, or marital status.

(5) Not provide abortion as a method of family planning.A project must:

(i) Offer pregnant clients the opportunity to be provided information and counseling regarding each of the following options:

(A) Prenatal care and delivery;

(B) Infant care, foster care, or adoption; and

(C) Pregnancy termination.

(ii) If requested to provide such information and counseling, provide neutral, factual information and nondirective counseling on each of the options, and, referral upon request, except with respect to any option(s) about which the pregnant client indicates they do not wish to receive such information and counseling.

(6) Provide that priority in the provision of services will be given to clients from low-income families.

(7) Provide that no charge will be made for services provided to any clients from a low-income family except to the extent that payment will be made by a third party (including a government agency) which is authorized to or is under legal obligation to pay this charge.

(8) Provide that charges will be made for services to clients other than those from low-income families in accordance with a schedule of discounts based on ability to pay, except that charges to persons from families whose annual income exceeds 250 percent of the levels set forth in the most recent Poverty Guidelines issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902(2) will be made in accordance with a schedule of fees designed to recover the reasonable cost of providing services.

(i) Family income should be assessed before determining whether copayments or additional fees are charged.

(ii) With regard to insured clients, clients whose family income is at or below 250 percent of the FPL should not pay more (in copayments or additional fees) than what they would otherwise pay when the schedule of discounts is applied.

(9) Take reasonable measures to verify client income, without burdening clients from low-income families. Recipients that have lawful access to other valid means of income verification because of the client's participation in another program may use those data rather than re-verify income or rely solely on clients' self-report. If a client's income cannot be verified after reasonable attempts to do so, charges are to be based on the client's self-reported income.

(10) If a third party (including a Government agency) is authorized or legally obligated to pay for services, all reasonable efforts must be made to obtain the third-party payment without application of any discounts. Where the cost of services is to be reimbursed under title XIX, XX, or XXI of the Social Security Act, a written agreement with the title XIX, XX, or XXI agency is required.

(11)(i) Provide that if an application relates to consolidation of service areas or health resources or would otherwise affect the operations of local or regional entities, the applicant must document that these entities have been given, to the maximum feasible extent, an opportunity to participate in the development of the application. Local and regional entities include existing or potential subrecipients which have previously provided or propose to provide family planning services to the area proposed to be served by the applicant.

(ii) Provide an opportunity for maximum participation by existing or potential subrecipients in the ongoing policy decision making of the project.

(b) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each project must meet each of the following requirements unless the Secretary determines that the project has established good cause for its omission. Each project must:

(1) Provide for medical services related to family planning (including consultation by a clinical services provider, examination, prescription and continuing supervision, laboratory examination, contraceptive supplies), in person or via telehealth, and necessary referral to other medical facilities when medically indicated, and provide for the effective usage of contraceptive devices and practices.

(2) Provide for social services related to family planning, including counseling, referral to and from other social and medical service agencies, and any ancillary services which may be necessary to facilitate clinic attendance.

(3) Provide for opportunities for community education, participation, and engagement to:

(i) Achieve community understanding of the objectives of the program;

(ii) Inform the community of the availability of services; and

(iii) Promote continued participation in the project by diverse persons to whom family planning services may be beneficial to ensure access to equitable, affordable, client-centered, quality family planning services.

(4) Provide for orientation and in-service training for all project personnel.

(5) Provide services without the imposition of any durational residency requirement or requirement that the patient be referred by a physician.

(6) Provide that family planning medical services will be performed under the direction of a clinical services provider, with services offered within their scope of practice and allowable under state law, and with special training or experience in family planning.

(7) Provide that all services purchased for project participants will be authorized by the project director or their designee on the project staff.

(8) Provide for coordination and use of referrals and linkages with primary healthcare providers, other providers of healthcare services, local health and welfare departments, hospitals, voluntary agencies, and health services projects supported by other federal programs, who are in close physical proximity to the Title X site, when feasible, in order to promote access to services and provide a seamless continuum of care.

(9) Provide that if family planning services are provided by contract or other similar arrangements with actual providers of services, services will be provided in accordance with a plan which establishes rates and method of payment for medical care. These payments must be made under agreements with a schedule of rates and payment procedures maintained by the recipient. The recipient must be prepared to substantiate that these rates are reasonable and necessary.

(10) Provide, to the maximum feasible extent, an opportunity for participation in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the project by persons broadly representative of all significant elements of the population to be served, and by others in the community knowledgeable about the community's needs for family planning services.
