
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 476 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORGANIZATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Review Responsibilities of Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs)
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 476.78 Responsibilities of providers and practitioners.
######## Waiver from the requirement to submit patient records in an electronic format.

(d)(1) A provider or practitioner that lacks the capability to submit requested patient records to the requesting QIO in an electronic format may request a waiver from the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.

(i) For providers that are required to execute a written agreement with the QIO, a request for a waiver must be made during execution of the written agreement with the QIO.

(ii) Providers that are required to execute a written agreement with the QIO must request a waiver by notifying the QIO that they lack the capability to submit patient records in electronic format, if their lack of capability arises after the written agreement is executed.

(iii) Upon approval of the waiver, the waiver becomes part of the written agreement with the QIO.

(iv) A provider with an approved waiver may submit patient records by facsimile or by photocopying and mailing to the QIO.

(v) A provider with an approved waiver may be reimbursed by the QIO for patient records submitted by facsimile or by photocopying and mailing in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(vi) A QIO may not reimburse for any patient record submitted to the QIO by facsimile or by photocopying and mailing if the provider does not have an approved waiver.

(2) Providers and practitioners that are not required to execute a written agreement with the QIO may request a waiver to be exempted from submitting patient records in an electronic format.

(i) Such providers and practitioners may request a waiver by notifying the QIO that they lack the capability to submit patient records in electronic format.

(ii) Upon approval of the waiver, a provider or practitioner may submit patient records by facsimile or by photocopying and mailing to the QIO.

(iii) Providers and practitioners with approved waivers may be reimbursed by the QIO for patient records submitted by facsimile or by photocopying and mailing in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(iv) A QIO may not reimburse for any patient records submitted to the QIO by facsimile or by photocopying and mailing, if the provider or practitioner does not have an approved waiver.
