
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 476 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORGANIZATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Review Responsibilities of Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs)
###### General Provisions
####### § 476.78 Responsibilities of providers and practitioners.
######## Cooperation with QIOs.

(b)Health care providers that submit Medicare claims must cooperate in the assumption and conduct of QIO review.

(1) Providers must allocate adequate space to the QIO for its conduct of review at the times the QIO is conducting review.

(2) Providers and practitioners must provide patient care data and other pertinent data to the QIO at the time the QIO is collecting review information that is required for the QIO to make its determinations. When the QIO does postadmission, preprocedure review, the provider must provide the necessary information before the procedure is performed, unless it must be performed on an emergency basis. Providers and practitioners must-

(i) Except as provided under §§ 476.130(b) and 476.160(b), relating to beneficiary complaint reviews and general quality of care reviews, deliver to the QIO all required information within 14 calendar days of a request. A QIO is authorized to require the receipt of the medical information earlier than the 14-day timeframe if the QIO makes a preliminary determination that the review involves a potential gross and flagrant or substantial violation as specified in part 1004 of this title and circumstances warrant earlier receipt of the medical information. A practitioner's or provider's failure to comply with the request for medical information within the established timeframe may result in the QIO taking action in accordance with § 476.90.

(ii) Except if granted a waiver as described in paragraph (d) of this section, send secure transmission of an electronic version of each requested patient record to the QIO.

(A) Providers and practitioners must deliver electronic versions of patient records within 14 calendar days of the request.

(B) A QIO is authorized to require the receipt of the patient records earlier than the 14-day timeframe if the QIO makes a preliminary determination that the review involves a potential gross and flagrant or substantial violation as specified in part 1004 of this title and circumstances warrant earlier receipt of the patient records.

(C) A practitioner's or provider's failure to comply with the request for patient records within the established timeframe may result in the QIO taking action in accordance with § 476.90.

(3) Providers must inform Medicare beneficiaries at the time of admission, in writing, that the care for which Medicare payment is sought will be subject to QIO review and indicate the potential outcomes of that review. Furnishing this information to the patient does not constitute notice, under § 411.402(a) of this chapter, that can support a finding that the beneficiary knew the services were not covered.

(4) When the provider has issued a written determination in accordance with § 412.42(c)(3) of this chapter that a beneficiary no longer requires inpatient hospital care, it must submit a copy of its determination to the QIO within 3 working days.

(5) Providers must assure, in accordance with the provisions of their agreements with the QIO, that each case subject to preadmission review has been reviewed and approved by the QIO before admission to the hospital or a timely request has been made for QIO review.

(6)(i) Providers must agree to accept financial liability for any admission subject to preadmission review that was not reviewed by the QIO and is subsequently determined to be inappropriate or not medically necessary.

(ii) The provisions of paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section do not apply if a provider, in accordance with its agreement with a QIO, makes a timely request for preadmission review and the QIO does not review the case timely. Cases of this type are subject to retrospective prepayment review under paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(7) Hospitals must agree that, if the hospital admits a case subject to preadmission review without certification, the case must receive retrospective prepayment review, according to the review priority established by the QIO.
