
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 476 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORGANIZATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Review Responsibilities of Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs)
###### QIO Review Functions
####### § 476.86 Correlation of Title XI functions with Title XVIII functions.
######## Payment determinations.

(a)(1) QIO initial denial determinations under this part with regard to the reasonableness, medical necessity, and appropriateness of placement at an acute level of patient care as are also conclusive for payment purposes with regard to the following medical issues:

(i) Whether inpatient care furnished in a psychiatric hospital meets the requirements of § 424.14 of this chapter.

(ii) Whether payment for inpatient hospital or SNF care beyond 20 consecutive days is precluded under § 489.50 of this chapter because of failure to perform review of long-stay cases.

(iii) Whether the care furnished was custodial care or care not reasonable and necessary and, as such, excluded under § 411.15(g) or § 411.15(k) of this chapter.

(iv) Whether the care was appropriately furnished in the inpatient or outpatient setting.

(2) Reviews with respect to determinations listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must not be conducted, for purposes of payment, by Medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries, and carriers except as outlined in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) QIOs make determinations as to the appropriateness of the location in which procedures are performed. A procedure may be medically necessary but denied if the QIO determines that it could, consistent with the provision of appropriate medical care, be effectively provided more economically on an outpatient basis or in an inpatient health care facility of a different type.

(4) QIO determinations as to whether the provider and the beneficiary knew or could reasonably be expected to have known that the services described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section were excluded are also conclusive for payment purposes.
