
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 476 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORGANIZATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Review Responsibilities of Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs)
###### QIO Review Functions
####### ยง 476.140 Beneficiary complaint reconsideration procedures.
######## Right to request a reconsideration.

(a)Beginning with complaints filed after July 31, 2014, a Medicare beneficiary, a provider, or a practitioner who is dissatisfied with a QIO's final initial determination may request a reconsideration by the QIO.

(1) The reconsideration request must be received by the QIO, in writing or by telephone, no later than 3 calendar days following initial notification of the QIO's determination. If the QIO is unable to accept a request, the request must be submitted by noon of the next day the QIO is available to accept a request.

(2) The Medicare beneficiary, or his or her representative, and the practitioner and/or provider must be available to answer any questions or supply any information that the QIO requests in order to conduct its reconsideration.

(3) The QIO must offer the Medicare beneficiary and the practitioner and/or provider an opportunity to provide further information. A Medicare beneficiary, a practitioner, and a provider may, but are not required to, submit evidence to be considered by the QIO in making its reconsideration decision.
