
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 476 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORGANIZATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Review Responsibilities of Quality Improvement Organizations (QIOs)
###### QIO Review Functions
####### ยง 476.130 Beneficiary complaint review procedures.
######## Interim initial determination.

(c)The QIO peer reviewer will complete the review and the practitioner and/or provider will be notified of the interim initial determination within 10 calendar days of the receipt of all medical information.

(1) A practitioner and provider will be notified by telephone of the opportunity to discuss the QIO's interim initial determination with the QIO in those situations where the peer reviewer determines that the quality of services does not meet professionally recognized standards of care for any concern in the complaint. The discussion must be held no later than 7 calendar days from the date of the initial offer.

(2) The interim initial determination becomes the final initial determination if the discussion is not completed timely as a result of the practitioner's and/or provider's failure to respond.

(3) Written statements in lieu of a discussion must be received no later than 7 calendar days from the date of the initial offer.

(4) In rare circumstances, the QIO may grant additional time to complete the discussion or submission of a written statement in lieu of a discussion.
