
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 478 - RECONSIDERATIONS AND APPEALS
##### Subpart B - Utilization and Quality Control Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) Reconsiderations and Appeals
###### ยง 478.22 Good cause for late filing of a request for a reconsideration or hearing.
####### Examples.

(b)Examples of circumstances in which good cause may exist include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) A party was seriously ill and was prevented from requesting a reconsideration in person, through another person, or in writing.

(2) There was a death or serious illness in a party's immediate family.

(3) Important records were accidentally destroyed or damaged by fire or other cause.

(4) A party made a diligent effort but could not find or obtain necessary relevent information within the appropriate time period.

(5) A party requested additional information to further explain the determination within the time limit, and requested reconsideration within 60 days of receiving the explanation (or within 30 days for a Departmental Appeals Board hearing).

(6) The QIO gave the party incorrect or incomplete information about when and how to request a reconsideration or hearing.

(7) A party sent the request to another Government agency in good faith within the time limit, but the request did not reach an office authorized to receive the request until after the time period had expired.

(8) Other unusual or unavoidable circumstances exist that-

(i) Show that a party could not have known of the need to file timely; or

(ii) Prevented a party from filing timely.
