
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quality Improvement Organizations
#### PART 478 - RECONSIDERATIONS AND APPEALS
##### Subpart B - Utilization and Quality Control Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) Reconsiderations and Appeals
###### ยง 478.40 Beneficiary's right to a hearing.
####### Governing provisions.

(c)(1) The provisions of subpart I of part 405 of this chapter apply to hearings and appeals under this subpart unless they are inconsistent with specific provisions in this subpart or specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, references in subpart I to initial determinations made by a Medicare contractor and reconsiderations made by a QIC should be read to mean initial determinations and reconsidered determinations made by a QIO.

(2) The following part 405 regulations, and any references thereto, specifically do not apply under this subpart:

(i) Section 405.950 (time frames for making a redetermination).

(ii) Section 405.970 (time frames for making a reconsideration following a contractor redetermination, including the option to escalate an appeal to the OMHA level).

(iii) Section 405.1016 (time frames for deciding an appeal of a QIC reconsideration, or escalated request for a QIC reconsideration, including the option to escalate an appeal to the Council).

(iv) The option to request that an appeal be escalated from the OMHA level to the Council as provided in ยง 405.1100(b), and time frames for the Council to decide an appeal of an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or an appeal that is escalated from the OMHA level to the Council as provided in ยง 405.1100(c) and (d).

(v) Section 405.1132 (request for escalation to Federal court).

(vi) Sections 405.956(b)(8), 405.966(a)(2), 405.976(b)(5)(ii), 405.1018(c), 405.1028(a), and 405.1122(c), and any other reference to requiring a determination of good cause for the introduction of new evidence by a provider, supplier, or a beneficiary represented by a provider or supplier.
