
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Grants
#### PART 59 - GRANTS FOR FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Grants for Family Planning Service Training
###### ยง 59.205 Project requirements.

An approvable application must contain each of the following unless the Secretary determines that the applicant has established good cause for its omission:

(a) Assurances that:

(1) No portion of the Federal funds will be used to train personnel for programs where abortion is a method of family planning.

(2) No portion of the Federal funds will be used to provide professional training to any student as part of his education in pursuit of an academic degree.

(3) No project personnel or trainees shall on the grounds of sex, religion, or creed be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under the project.

(b) Provision of a methodology to assess the particular training (e.g., skills, attitudes, or knowledge) that prospective trainees in the area to be served need to improve their delivery of family planning services.

(c) Provision of a methodology to define the objectives of the training program in light of the particular needs of trainees defined pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Provision of a method for development of the training curriculum and any attendant training materials and resources.

(e) Provision of a method for implementation of the needed training.

(f) Provision of an evaluation methodology, including the manner in which such methodology will be employed, to measure the achievement of the objectives of the training program.

(g) Provision of a method and criteria by which trainees will be selected.
