
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 482 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION FOR HOSPITALS
##### Subpart B - Administration
###### ยง 482.12 Condition of participation: Governing body.
####### Standard: Institutional plan and budget.

(d)The institution must have an overall institutional plan that meets the following conditions:

(1) The plan must include an annual operating budget that is prepared according to generally accepted accounting principles.

(2) The budget must include all anticipated income and expenses. This provision does not require that the budget identify item by item the components of each anticipated income or expense.

(3) The plan must provide for capital expenditures for at least a 3-year period, including the year in which the operating budget specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is applicable.

(4) The plan must include and identify in detail the objective of, and the anticipated sources of financing for, each anticipated capital expenditure in excess of $600,000 (or a lesser amount that is established, in accordance with section 1122(g)(1) of the Act, by the State in which the hospital is located) that relates to any of the following:

(i) Acquisition of land;

(ii) Improvement of land, buildings, and equipment; or

(iii) The replacement, modernization, and expansion of buildings and equipment.

(5) The plan must be submitted for review to the planning agency designated in accordance with section 1122(b) of the Act, or if an agency is not designated, to the appropriate health planning agency in the State. (See part 100 of this title.) A capital expenditure is not subject to section 1122 review if 75 percent of the health care facility's patients who are expected to use the service for which the capital expenditure is made are individuals enrolled in a health maintenance organization (HMO) or competitive medical plan (CMP) that meets the requirements of section 1876(b) of the Act, and if the Department determines that the capital expenditure is for services and facilities that are needed by the HMO or CMP in order to operate efficiently and economically and that are not otherwise readily accessible to the HMO or CMP because-

(i) The facilities do not provide common services at the same site;

(ii) The facilities are not available under a contract of reasonable duration;

(iii) Full and equal medical staff privileges in the facilities are not available;

(iv) Arrangements with these facilities are not administratively feasible; or

(v) The purchase of these services is more costly than if the HMO or CMP provided the services directly.

(6) The plan must be reviewed and updated annually.

(7) The plan must be prepared-

(i) Under the direction of the governing body; and

(ii) By a committee consisting of representatives of the governing body, the administrative staff, and the medical staff of the institution.
