
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 482 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION FOR HOSPITALS
##### Subpart C - Basic Hospital Functions
###### ยง 482.30 Condition of participation: Utilization review.
####### Standard: Composition of utilization review committee.

(b)A UR committee consisting of two or more practitioners must carry out the UR function. At least two of the members of the committee must be doctors of medicine or osteopathy. The other members may be any of the other types of practitioners specified in ยง 482.12(c)(1).

(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section, the UR committee must be one of the following:

(i) A staff committee of the institution;

(ii) A group outside the institution-

(A) Established by the local medical society and some or all of the hospitals in the locality; or

(B) Established in a manner approved by CMS.

(2) If, because of the small size of the institution, it is impracticable to have a properly functioning staff committee, the UR committee must be established as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(3) The committee's or group's reviews may not be conducted by any individual who-

(i) Has a direct financial interest (for example, an ownership interest) in that hospital; or

(ii) Was professionally involved in the care of the patient whose case is being reviewed.
