
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.1 Basis and scope.
####### Statutory basis.

(a)(1) Sections 1819(a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) of the Act provide that-

(i) Skilled nursing facilities participating in Medicare must meet certain specified requirements; and

(ii) The Secretary may impose additional requirements (see section 1819(d)(4)(B)) if they are necessary for the health and safety of individuals to whom services are furnished in the facilities.

(2) Section 1861(l) of the Act requires the facility to have in effect a transfer agreement with a hospital.

(3) Sections 1919(a), (b), (c), (d), and (f) of the Act provide that nursing facilities participating in Medicaid must meet certain specific requirements.

(4) Sections 1128I(b) and (c) require that-

(i) Skilled nursing facilities or nursing facility have in operation a compliance and ethics program that is effective in preventing and detecting criminal, civil, and administrative violations.

(ii) The Secretary establish and implement a quality assurance and performance improvement program for facilities, including multi-unit chains of facilities.

(5) Section 1150B establishes requirements for reporting to law enforcement crimes occurring in federally funded LTC facilities.
