
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.10 Resident rights.
####### Items and services that may be charged to residents' funds.

(ii)Paragraphs (f)(11)(ii)(A) through (L) of this section are general categories and examples of items and services that the facility may charge to residents' funds if they are requested by a resident, if they are not required to achieve the goals stated in the resident's care plan, if the facility informs the resident that there will be a charge, and if payment is not made by Medicare or Medicaid:

(A) Telephone, including a cellular phone.

(B) Television/radio, personal computer or other electronic device for personal use.

(C) Personal comfort items, including smoking materials, notions and novelties, and confections.

(D) Cosmetic and grooming items and services in excess of those for which payment is made under Medicaid or Medicare.

(E) Personal clothing.

(F) Personal reading matter.

(G) Gifts purchased on behalf of a resident.

(H) Flowers and plants.

(I) Cost to participate in social events and entertainment outside the scope of the activities program, provided under ยง 483.24(c).

(J) Non-covered special care services such as privately hired nurses or aides.

(K) Private room, except when therapeutically required (for example, isolation for infection control).
