
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.10 Resident rights.
####### Choice of attending physician.

(d)The resident has the right to choose his or her attending physician.

(1) The physician must be licensed to practice, and

(2) If the physician chosen by the resident refuses to or does not meet requirements specified in this part, the facility may seek alternate physician participation as specified in paragraphs (d)(4) and (5) of this section to assure provision of appropriate and adequate care and treatment.

(3) The facility must ensure that each resident remains informed of the name, specialty, and way of contacting the physician and other primary care professionals responsible for his or her care.

(4) The facility must inform the resident if the facility determines that the physician chosen by the resident is unable or unwilling to meet requirements specified in this part and the facility seeks alternate physician participation to assure provision of appropriate and adequate care and treatment. The facility must discuss the alternative physician participation with the resident and honor the resident's preferences, if any, among options.

(5) If the resident subsequently selects another attending physician who meets the requirements specified in this part, the facility must honor that choice.
