
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.10 Resident rights.
####### Privacy and confidentiality.

(h)The resident has a right to personal privacy and confidentiality of his or her personal and medical records.

(1) Personal privacy includes accommodations, medical treatment, written and telephone communications, personal care, visits, and meetings of family and resident groups, but this does not require the facility to provide a private room for each resident.

(2) The facility must respect the residents right to personal privacy, including the right to privacy in his or her oral (that is, spoken), written, and electronic communications, including the right to send and promptly receive unopened mail and other letters, packages and other materials delivered to the facility for the resident, including those delivered through a means other than a postal service.

(3) The resident has a right to secure and confidential personal and medical records.

(i) The resident has the right to refuse the release of personal and medical records except as provided at ยง 483.70(i)(2) or other applicable federal or state laws.

(ii) The facility must allow representatives of the Office of the State Long-Term Care Ombudsman to examine a resident's medical, social, and administrative records in accordance with State law.
