
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.15 Admission, transfer, and discharge rights.
####### Documentation.

(2)When the facility transfers or discharges a resident under any of the circumstances specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, the facility must ensure that the transfer or discharge is documented in the resident's medical record and appropriate information is communicated to the receiving health care institution or provider.

(i) Documentation in the resident's medical record must include:

(A) The basis for the transfer per paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) In the case of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the specific resident need(s) that cannot be met, facility attempts to meet the resident needs, and the service available at the receiving facility to meet the need(s).

(ii) The documentation required by paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must be made by-

(A) The resident's physician when transfer or discharge is necessary under paragraph (c)(1)(A) or (B) of this section; and

(B) A physician when transfer or discharge is necessary under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) or (D) of this section.

(iii) Information provided to the receiving provider must include a minimum of the following:

(A) Contact information of the practitioner responsible for the care of the resident

(B) Resident representative information including contact information.

(C) Advance Directive information.

(D) All special instructions or precautions for ongoing care, as appropriate.

(E) Comprehensive care plan goals,

(F) All other necessary information, including a copy of the resident's discharge summary, consistent with ยง 483.21(c)(2), as applicable, and any other documentation, as applicable, to ensure a safe and effective transition of care.
