
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.20 Resident assessment.
####### Comprehensive assessments,Resident assessment instrument.

(b)-(1)A facility must make a comprehensive assessment of a resident's needs, strengths, goals, life history and preferences, using the resident assessment instrument (RAI) specified by CMS. The assessment must include at least the following:

(i) Identification and demographic information.

(ii) Customary routine.

(iii) Cognitive patterns.

(iv) Communication.

(v) Vision.

(vi) Mood and behavior patterns.

(vii) Psychosocial well-being.

(viii) Physical functioning and structural problems.

(ix) Continence.

(x) Disease diagnoses and health conditions.

(xi) Dental and nutritional status.

(xii) Skin condition.

(xiii) Activity pursuit.

(xiv) Medications.

(xv) Special treatments and procedures.

(xvi) Discharge planning.

(xvii) Documentation of summary information regarding the additional assessment performed on the care areas triggered by the completion of the Minimum Data Set (MDS).

(xviii) Documentation of participation in assessment. The assessment process must include direct observation and communication with the resident, as well as communication with licensed and nonlicensed direct care staff members on all shifts.
