
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.21 Comprehensive person-centered care planning.
####### Baseline care plans.

(a)(1) The facility must develop and implement a baseline care plan for each resident that includes the instructions needed to provide effective and person-centered care of the resident that meet professional standards of quality care. The baseline care plan must-

(i) Be developed within 48 hours of a resident's admission.

(ii) Include the minimum healthcare information necessary to properly care for a resident including, but not limited to:

(A) Initial goals based on admission orders.

(B) Physician orders.

(C) Dietary orders.

(D) Therapy services.

(E) Social services.

(F) PASARR recommendation, if applicable.

(2) The facility may develop a comprehensive care plan in place of the baseline care plan if the comprehensive care plan-

(i) Is developed within 48 hours of the resident's admission.

(ii) Meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section (excepting paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section).

(3) The facility must provide the resident and their representative with a summary of the baseline care plan that includes but is not limited to:

(i) The initial goals of the resident.

(ii) A summary of the resident's medications and dietary instructions.

(iii) Any services and treatments to be administered by the facility and personnel acting on behalf of the facility.

(iv) Any updated information based on the details of the comprehensive care plan, as necessary.
