
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.73 Emergency preparedness.
####### Communication plan.

(c)The LTC facility must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, State, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least annually. The communication plan must include all of the following:

(1) Names and contact information for the following:

(i) Staff.

(ii) Entities providing services under arrangement.

(iii) Residents' physicians.

(iv) Other LTC facilities.

(v) Volunteers.

(2) Contact information for the following:

(i) Federal, State, tribal, regional, or local emergency preparedness staff.

(ii) The State Licensing and Certification Agency.

(iii) The Office of the State Long-Term Care Ombudsman.

(iv) Other sources of assistance.

(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the following:

(i) LTC facility's staff.

(ii) Federal, State, tribal, regional, or local emergency management agencies.

(4) A method for sharing information and medical documentation for residents under the LTC facility's care, as necessary, with other health care providers to maintain the continuity of care.

(5) A means, in the event of an evacuation, to release resident information as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(1)(ii).

(6) A means of providing information about the general condition and location of residents under the facility's care as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(4).

(7) A means of providing information about the LTC facility's occupancy, needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction or the Incident Command Center, or designee.

(8) A method for sharing information from the emergency plan that the facility has determined is appropriate with residents and their families or representatives.
