
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 483.80 Infection control.
####### COVID-19 reporting.

(g)Until December 31, 2024, with the exception of the requirements in paragraph (g)(1)(viii) of this section, the facility must do all of the following:

(1) Electronically report information about COVID-19 in a standardized format specified by the Secretary. To the extent as required by the Secretary, this report must include the following:

(i) Suspected and confirmed COVID-19 infections among residents and staff, including residents previously treated for COVID-19.

(ii) Total deaths and COVID-19 deaths among residents and staff.

(iii) Personal protective equipment and hand hygiene supplies in the facility.

(iv) Ventilator capacity and supplies in the facility.

(v) Resident beds and census.

(vi) Access to COVID-19 testing while the resident is in the facility.

(vii) Staffing shortages.

(viii) The COVID-19 vaccine status of residents and staff, including total numbers of residents and staff, numbers of residents and staff vaccinated, numbers of each dose of COVID-19 vaccine received, and COVID-19 vaccination adverse events.

(ix) Therapeutics administered to residents for treatment of COVID-19.

(2) Provide the information specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section weekly, unless the Secretary specifies a lesser frequency, to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Healthcare Safety Network. This information will be posted publicly by CMS to support protecting the health and safety of residents, personnel, and the general public.

(3) Inform residents, their representatives, and families of those residing in facilities by 5 p.m. the next calendar day following the occurrence of either a single confirmed infection of COVID-19, or three or more residents or staff with new-onset of respiratory symptoms occurring within 72 hours of each other. This information must do all of the following:

(i) Not include personally identifiable information.

(ii) Include information on mitigating actions implemented to prevent or reduce the risk of transmission, including if normal operations of the facility will be altered.

(iii) Include any cumulative updates for residents, their representatives, and families at least weekly or by 5 p.m. the next calendar day following the subsequent occurrence of either: Each time a confirmed infection of COVID-19 is identified, or whenever three or more residents or staff with new onset of respiratory symptoms occur within 72 hours of each other.
