
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart C - Preadmission Screening and Annual Review of Mentally Ill and Mentally Retarded Individuals
###### ยง 483.134 Evaluating whether an individual with mental illness requires specialized services (PASARR/MI).
####### Data.

(b)Minimum data collected must include-(1) A comprehensive history and physical examination of the person. The following areas must be included (if not previously addressed):

(i) Complete medical history;

(ii) Review of all body systems;

(iii) Specific evaluation of the person's neurological system in the areas of motor functioning, sensory functioning, gait, deep tendon reflexes, cranial nerves, and abnormal reflexes; and

(iv) In case of abnormal findings which are the basis for an NF placement, additional evaluations conducted by appropriate specialists.

(2) A comprehensive drug history including current or immediate past use of medications that could mask symptoms or mimic mental illness.

(3) A psychosocial evaluation of the person, including current living arrangements and medical and support systems.

(4) A comprehensive psychiatric evaluation including a complete psychiatric history, evaluation of intellectual functioning, memory functioning, and orientation, description of current attitudes and overt behaviors, affect, suicidal or homicidal ideation, paranoia, and degree of reality testing (presence and content of delusions) and hallucinations.

(5) A functional assessment of the individual's ability to engage in activities of daily living and the level of support that would be needed to assist the individual to perform these activities while living in the community. The assessment must determine whether this level of support can be provided to the individual in an alternative community setting or whether the level of support needed is such that NF placement is required.

(6) The functional assessment must address the following areas: Self-monitoring of health status, self-administering and scheduling of medical treatment, including medication compliance, or both, self-monitoring of nutritional status, handling money, dressing appropriately, and grooming.
