
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Condition of Participation for the Use of Restraint or Seclusion in Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facilities Providing Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Individuals Under Age 21
###### ยง 483.376 Education and training.

(a) The facility must require staff to have ongoing education, training, and demonstrated knowledge of-

(1) Techniques to identify staff and resident behaviors, events, and environmental factors that may trigger emergency safety situations;

(2) The use of nonphysical intervention skills, such as de-escalation, mediation conflict resolution, active listening, and verbal and observational methods, to prevent emergency safety situations; and

(3) The safe use of restraint and the safe use of seclusion, including the ability to recognize and respond to signs of physical distress in residents who are restrained or in seclusion.

(b) Certification in the use of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, including periodic recertification, is required.

(c) Individuals who are qualified by education, training, and experience must provide staff training.

(d) Staff training must include training exercises in which staff members successfully demonstrate in practice the techniques they have learned for managing emergency safety situations.

(e) Staff must be trained and demonstrate competency before participating in an emergency safety intervention.

(f) Staff must demonstrate their competencies as specified in paragraph (a) of this section on a semiannual basis and their competencies as specified in paragraph (b) of this section on an annual basis.

(g) The facility must document in the staff personnel records that the training and demonstration of competency were successfully completed. Documentation must include the date training was completed and the name of persons certifying the completion of training.

(h) All training programs and materials used by the facility must be available for review by CMS, the State Medicaid agency, and the State survey agency.
