
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Conditions of Participation for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities
###### ยง 483.460 Condition of participation: Health care services.
####### Standard: Physician services.

(a)(1) The facility must ensure the availability of physician services 24 hours a day.

(2) The physician must develop, in coordination with licensed nursing personnel, a medical care plan of treatment for a client if the physician determines that an individual client requires 24-hour licensed nursing care. This plan must be integrated in the individual program plan.

(3) The facility must provide or obtain preventive and general medical care as well as annual physical examinations of each client that at a minimum include the following:

(i) Evaluation of vision and hearing.

(ii) Immunizations, using as a guide the recommendations of the Public Health Service Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices or of the Committee on the Control of Infectious Diseases of the American Academy of Pediatrics.

(iii) Routine screening laboratory examinations as determined necessary by the physician, and special studies when needed.

(iv) Tuberculosis control, appropriate to the facility's population, and in accordance with the recommendations of the American College of Chest Physicians or the section of diseases of the chest of the American Academy of Pediatrics, or both.

(4) The intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual disabilities (ICF/IID) must develop and implement policies and procedures to ensure all of the following:

(i) When COVID-19 vaccine is available to the facility, each client and staff member is offered the COVID-19 vaccine unless the immunization is medically contraindicated or the client or staff member has already been immunized.

(ii) Before offering COVID-19 vaccine, all staff members are provided with education regarding the benefits and risks and potential side effects associated with the vaccine.

(iii) Before offering COVID-19 vaccine, each client or the client's representative receives education regarding the benefits and risks and potential side effects associated with the COVID-19 vaccine.

(iv) In situations where COVID-19 vaccination requires multiple doses, the client, client's representative, or staff member is provided with current information regarding each additional dose, including any changes in the benefits or risks and potential side effects associated with the COVID-19 vaccine, before requesting consent for administration of each additional doses.

(v) The client, or client's representative, has the opportunity to accept or refuse a COVID-19 vaccine, and change their decision;

(vi) The client's medical record includes documentation that indicates, at a minimum, the following:

(A) That the client or client's representative was provided education regarding the benefits and risks and potential side effects of COVID-19 vaccine; and

(B) Each dose of COVID-19 vaccine administered to the client; or

(C) If the client did not receive the COVID-19 vaccine due to medical contraindications or refusal.

(5) To the extent permitted by State law, the facility may utilize physician assistants and nurse practitioners to provide physician services as described in this section.
