
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Conditions of Participation for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities
###### ยง 483.450 Condition of participation: Client behavior and facility practices.
####### Standard: Management of inappropriate client behavior.

(b)(1) The facility must develop and implement written policies and procedures that govern the management of inappropriate client behavior. These policies and procedures must be consistent with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. These procedures must-

(i) Specify all facility approved interventions to manage inappropriate client behavior;

(ii) Designate these interventions on a hierarchy to be implemented, ranging from most positive or least intrusive, to least positive or most intrusive;

(iii) Insure, prior to the use of more restrictive techniques, that the client's record documents that programs incorporating the use of less intrusive or more positive techniques have been tried systematically and demonstrated to be ineffective; and

(iv) Address the following:

(A) The use of time-out rooms.

(B) The use of physical restraints.

(C) The use of drugs to manage inappropriate behavior.

(D) The application of painful or noxious stimuli.

(E) The staff members who may authorize the use of specified interventions.

(F) A mechanism for monitoring and controlling the use of such interventions.

(2) Interventions to manage inappropriate client behavior must be employed with sufficient safeguards and supervision to ensure that the safety, welfare and civil and human rights of clients are adequately protected.

(3) Techniques to manage inappropriate client behavior must never be used for disciplinary purposes, for the convenience of staff or as a substitute for an active treatment program.

(4) The use of systematic interventions to manage inappropriate client behavior must be incorporated into the client's individual program plan, in accordance with ยง 483.440(c) (4) and (5) of this subpart.

(5) Standing or as needed programs to control inappropriate behavior are not permitted.
