
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Conditions of Participation for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities
###### ยง 483.470 Condition of participation: Physical environment.
####### Standard: Fire protection,General.

(j)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this section-

(i) The facility must meet the applicable provisions of either the Health Care Occupancies Chapters or the Residential Board and Care Occupancies Chapter and must proceed in accordance with the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-1, TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, and TIA 12-4.)

(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section, corridor doors and doors to rooms containing flammable or combustible materials must be provided with positive latching hardware. Roller latches are prohibited on such doors.

(iii) Chapters 32.3.2.11.2 and 33.3.2.11.2 of the adopted 2012 Life Safety Code do not apply to a facility.

(iv) Beginning July 5, 2019, an ICF-IID must be in compliance with Chapter 33.2.3.5.7.1, Sprinklers in attics, or Chapter 33.2.3.5.7.2, Heat detection systems in attics of the Life Safety Code.

(2) The State survey agency may apply a single chapter of the LSC to the entire facility or may apply different chapters to different buildings or parts of buildings as permitted by the LSC.

(3) A facility that meets the LSC definition of a residential board and care occupancy must have its evacuation capability evaluated in accordance with the Evacuation Difficulty Index of the Fire Safety Evaluation System for Board and Care facilities (FSES/BC).

(4) If CMS finds that the State has a fire and safety code imposed by State law that adequately protects a facility's clients, CMS may allow the State survey agency to apply the State's fire and safety code instead of the LSC.
