
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Conditions of Participation for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities
###### ยง 483.475 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Communication plan.

(c)The ICF/IID must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, State, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. The communication plan must include the following:

(1) Names and contact information for the following:

(i) Staff.

(ii) Entities providing services under arrangement.

(iii) Clients' physicians.

(iv) Other ICF/IIDs.

(v) Volunteers.

(2) Contact information for the following:

(i) Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency preparedness staff.

(ii) Other sources of assistance.

(iii) The State Licensing and Certification Agency.

(iv) The State Protection and Advocacy Agency.

(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the ICF/IID's staff, Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency management agencies.

(4) A method for sharing information and medical documentation for clients under the ICF/IID's care, as necessary, with other health care providers to maintain the continuity of care.

(5) A means, in the event of an evacuation, to release client information as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(1)(ii).

(6) A means of providing information about the general condition and location of clients under the facility's care as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(4).

(7) A means of providing information about the ICF/IID's occupancy, needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction, the Incident Command Center, or designee.

(8) A method for sharing information from the emergency plan that the facility has determined is appropriate with clients and their families or representatives.
