
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Conditions of Participation for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities
###### ยง 483.475 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Policies and procedures.

(b)The ICF/IID must develop and implement emergency preparedness policies and procedures, based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, risk assessment at paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the communication plan at paragraph (c) of this section. The policies and procedures must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. At a minimum, the policies and procedures must address the following:

(1) The provision of subsistence needs for staff and clients, whether they evacuate or shelter in place, include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Food, water, medical, and pharmaceutical supplies.

(ii) Alternate sources of energy to maintain the following:

(A) Temperatures to protect client health and safety and for the safe and sanitary storage of provisions.

(B) Emergency lighting.

(C) Fire detection, extinguishing, and alarm systems.

(D) Sewage and waste disposal.

(2) A system to track the location of on-duty staff and sheltered clients in the ICF/IID's care during and after an emergency. If on-duty staff and sheltered clients are relocated during the emergency, the ICF/IID must document the specific name and location of the receiving facility or other location.

(3) Safe evacuation from the ICF/IID, which includes consideration of care and treatment needs of evacuees; staff responsibilities; transportation; identification of evacuation location(s); and primary and alternate means of communication with external sources of assistance.

(4) A means to shelter in place for clients, staff, and volunteers who remain in the facility.

(5) A system of medical documentation that preserves client information, protects confidentiality of client information, and secures and maintains the availability of records.

(6) The use of volunteers in an emergency or other emergency staffing strategies, including the process and role for integration of State or Federally designated health care professionals to address surge needs during an emergency.

(7) The development of arrangements with other ICF/IIDs or other providers to receive clients in the event of limitations or cessation of operations to maintain the continuity of services to ICF/IID clients.

(8) The role of the ICF/IID under a waiver declared by the Secretary, in accordance with section 1135 of the Act, in the provision of care and treatment at an alternate care site identified by emergency management officials.
