
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 483 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES AND LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES
##### Subpart I - Conditions of Participation for Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities
###### ยง 483.480 Condition of participation: Dietetic services.
####### Standard: Food and nutrition services.

(a)(1) Each client must receive a nourishing, well-balanced diet including modified and specially-prescribed diets.

(2) A qualified dietitian must be employed either full-time, part-time, or on a consultant basis at the facility's discretion.

(3) If a qualified dietitian is not employed full-time, the facility must designate a person to serve as the director of food services.

(4) The client's interdisciplinary team, including a qualified dietitian and physician, must prescribe all modified and special diets including those used as a part of a program to manage inappropriate client behavior.

(5) Foods proposed for use as a primary reinforcement of adaptive behavior are evaluated in light of the client's nutritional status and needs.

(6) Unless otherwise specified by medical needs, the diet must be prepared at least in accordance with the latest edition of the recommended dietary allowances of the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences, adjusted for age, sex, disability and activity.
