
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Patient Care
###### ยง 484.50 Condition of participation: Patient rights.
####### Standard: Rights of the patient.

(c)The patient has the right to-

(1) Have his or her property and person treated with respect;

(2) Be free from verbal, mental, sexual, and physical abuse, including injuries of unknown source, neglect and misappropriation of property;

(3) Make complaints to the HHA regarding treatment or care that is (or fails to be) furnished, and the lack of respect for property and/or person by anyone who is furnishing services on behalf of the HHA;

(4) Participate in, be informed about, and consent or refuse care in advance of and during treatment, where appropriate, with respect to-

(i) Completion of all assessments;

(ii) The care to be furnished, based on the comprehensive assessment;

(iii) Establishing and revising the plan of care;

(iv) The disciplines that will furnish the care;

(v) The frequency of visits;

(vi) Expected outcomes of care, including patient-identified goals, and anticipated risks and benefits;

(vii) Any factors that could impact treatment effectiveness; and

(viii) Any changes in the care to be furnished.

(5) Receive all services outlined in the plan of care.

(6) Have a confidential clinical record. Access to or release of patient information and clinical records is permitted in accordance with 45 CFR parts 160 and 164.

(7) Be advised, orally and in writing, of-

(i) The extent to which payment for HHA services may be expected from Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federally-funded or federal aid program known to the HHA,

(ii) The charges for services that may not be covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federally-funded or federal aid program known to the HHA,

(iii) The charges the individual may have to pay before care is initiated; and

(iv) Any changes in the information provided in accordance with paragraph (c)(7) of this section when they occur. The HHA must advise the patient and representative (if any), of these changes as soon as possible, in advance of the next home health visit. The HHA must comply with the patient notice requirements at 42 CFR 411.408(d)(2) and 42 CFR 411.408(f).

(8) Receive proper written notice, in advance of a specific service being furnished, if the HHA believes that the service may be non-covered care; or in advance of the HHA reducing or terminating on-going care. The HHA must also comply with the requirements of 42 CFR 405.1200 through 405.1204.

(9) Be advised of the state toll free home health telephone hot line, its contact information, its hours of operation, and that its purpose is to receive complaints or questions about local HHAs.

(10) Be advised of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the following Federally-funded and state-funded entities that serve the area where the patient resides:

(i) Agency on Aging,

(ii) Center for Independent Living,

(iii) Protection and Advocacy Agency,

(iv) Aging and Disability Resource Center; and

(v) Quality Improvement Organization.

(11) Be free from any discrimination or reprisal for exercising his or her rights or for voicing grievances to the HHA or an outside entity.

(12) Be informed of the right to access auxiliary aids and language services as described in paragraph (f) of this section, and how to access these services.
