
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Patient Care
###### ยง 484.80 Condition of participation: Home health aide services.
####### Standard: Content and duration of home health aide classroom and supervised practical training.

(b)(1) Home health aide training must include classroom and supervised practical training in a practicum laboratory or other setting in which the trainee demonstrates knowledge while providing services to an individual under the direct supervision of a registered nurse, or a licensed practical nurse who is under the supervision of a registered nurse. Classroom and supervised practical training must total at least 75 hours.

(2) A minimum of 16 hours of classroom training must precede a minimum of 16 hours of supervised practical training as part of the 75 hours.

(3) A home health aide training program must address each of the following subject areas:

(i) Communication skills, including the ability to read, write, and verbally report clinical information to patients, representatives, and caregivers, as well as to other HHA staff.

(ii) Observation, reporting, and documentation of patient status and the care or service furnished.

(iii) Reading and recording temperature, pulse, and respiration.

(iv) Basic infection prevention and control procedures.

(v) Basic elements of body functioning and changes in body function that must be reported to an aide's supervisor.

(vi) Maintenance of a clean, safe, and healthy environment.

(vii) Recognizing emergencies and the knowledge of instituting emergency procedures and their application.

(viii) The physical, emotional, and developmental needs of and ways to work with the populations served by the HHA, including the need for respect for the patient, his or her privacy, and his or her property.

(ix) Appropriate and safe techniques in performing personal hygiene and grooming tasks that include-

(A) Bed bath;

(B) Sponge, tub, and shower bath;

(C) Hair shampooing in sink, tub, and bed;

(D) Nail and skin care;

(E) Oral hygiene;

(F) Toileting and elimination;

(x) Safe transfer techniques and ambulation;

(xi) Normal range of motion and positioning;

(xii) Adequate nutrition and fluid intake;

(xiii) Recognizing and reporting changes in skin condition; and

(xiv) Any other task that the HHA may choose to have an aide perform as permitted under state law.

(xv) The HHA is responsible for training home health aides, as needed, for skills not covered in the basic checklist, as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ix) of this section.

(4) The HHA must maintain documentation that demonstrates that the requirements of this standard have been met.
