
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Organizational Environment
###### ยง 484.115 Condition of participation: Personnel qualifications.
####### Standard: Occupational therapy assistant.

(g)A person who-

(1) Meets all of the following:

(i) Is licensed or otherwise regulated, if applicable, as an occupational therapy assistant by the state in which practicing, unless licensure does apply.

(ii) Graduated after successful completion of an occupational therapy assistant education program accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education, (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association, Inc. (AOTA) or its successor organizations.

(iii) Is eligible to take or successfully completed the entry-level certification examination for occupational therapy assistants developed and administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy, Inc. (NBCOT).

(2) On or before December 31, 2009-

(i) Is licensed or otherwise regulated as an occupational therapy assistant, if applicable, by the state in which practicing; or any qualifications defined by the state in which practicing, unless licensure does not apply; or

(ii) Must meet both of the following:

(A) Completed certification requirements to practice as an occupational therapy assistant established by a credentialing organization approved by the American Occupational Therapy Association.

(B) After January 1, 2010, meets the requirements in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(3) After December 31, 1977 and on or before December 31, 2007-

(i) Completed certification requirements to practice as an occupational therapy assistant established by a credentialing organization approved by the American Occupational Therapy Association; or

(ii) Completed the requirements to practice as an occupational therapy assistant applicable in the state in which practicing.

(4) On or before December 31, 1977-

(i) Had 2 years of appropriate experience as an occupational therapy assistant; and

(ii) Had achieved a satisfactory grade on an occupational therapy assistant proficiency examination conducted, approved, or sponsored by the U.S. Public Health Service.

(5) If educated outside the United States, on or after January 1, 2008-

(i) Graduated after successful completion of an occupational therapy assistant education program that is accredited as substantially equivalent to occupational therapist assistant entry level education in the United States by-

(A) The Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE).

(B) Its successor organizations.

(C) The World Federation of Occupational Therapists.

(D) By a credentialing body approved by the American Occupational Therapy Association; and

(E) Successfully completed the entry level certification examination for occupational therapy assistants developed and administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy, Inc. (NBCOT).

(ii) [Reserved]
