
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 61 - FELLOWSHIPS
##### Subpart B - Service Fellowships
###### ยง 61.37 Stipends, allowances, and benefits.
####### Travel and transportation allowances.

(b)Under conditions prescribed by the Secretary, an individual appointed as a service fellow may be authorized personal travel allowances or transportation and per diem, travel allowances or transportation for his or her immediate family, and transportation of household goods and personal effects, in conjunction with travel authorized by the Secretary.

(1) From place of residence, within or outside the continental United States, to first duty station,

(2) For any change of duty station ordered by the Service during the term of the fellowship, and

(3) From last duty station to the place of residence which he left to accept the fellowship, or to some other place at no greater cost to the Government.

(4) A service fellow shall be entitled to travel allowances or transportation and per diem while traveling on official business away from his or her permanent duty station during the term of the fellowship. Except as otherwise provided herein, a service fellow shall be entitled to travel and transportation allowances authorized in this part at the same rates as may be authorized by law and regulations for other civilian employees of the Public Health Service. If a service fellow dies during the term of a fellowship, and the place of residence that was left by the service fellow to accept the fellowship was outside the continental United States, the payment of expenses of preparing the remains for burial and transporting them to the place of residence for interment may be authorized. In the case of deceased service fellows whose place of residence was within the continental United States, payment of the expenses of preparing the remains and transporting them to the place of residence for interment may be authorized as provided for other civilian employees of the Public Health Service.
