
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Organizational Environment
###### ยง 484.115 Condition of participation: Personnel qualifications.
####### Standard: Physical therapist.

(h)A person who is licensed, if applicable, by the state in which practicing, unless licensure does not apply and meets one of the following requirements:

(1)(i) Graduated after successful completion of a physical therapist education program approved by one of the following:

(A) The Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE).

(B) Successor organizations of CAPTE.

(C) An education program outside the United States determined to be substantially equivalent to physical therapist entry level education in the United States by a credentials evaluation organization approved by the American Physical Therapy Association or an organization identified in 8 CFR 212.15(e) as it relates to physical therapists.

(ii) Passed an examination for physical therapists approved by the state in which physical therapy services are provided.

(2) On or before December 31, 2009-

(i) Graduated after successful completion of a physical therapy curriculum approved by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE); or

(ii) Meets both of the following:

(A) Graduated after successful completion of an education program determined to be substantially equivalent to physical therapist entry level education in the United States by a credentials evaluation organization approved by the American Physical Therapy Association or identified in 8 CFR 212.15(e) as it relates to physical therapists.

(B) Passed an examination for physical therapists approved by the state in which physical therapy services are provided.

(3) Before January 1, 2008 graduated from a physical therapy curriculum approved by one of the following:

(i) The American Physical Therapy Association.

(ii) The Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation of the American Medical Association.

(iii) The Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association and the American Physical Therapy Association.

(4) On or before December 31, 1977 was licensed or qualified as a physical therapist and meets both of the following:

(i) Has 2 years of appropriate experience as a physical therapist.

(ii) Has achieved a satisfactory grade on a proficiency examination conducted, approved, or sponsored by the U.S. Public Health Service.

(5) Before January 1, 1966-

(i) Was admitted to membership by the American Physical Therapy Association;

(ii) Was admitted to registration by the American Registry of Physical Therapists; or

(iii) Graduated from a physical therapy curriculum in a 4-year college or university approved by a state department of education.

(6) Before January 1, 1966 was licensed or registered, and before January 1, 1970, had 15 years of fulltime experience in the treatment of illness or injury through the practice of physical therapy in which services were rendered under the order and direction of attending and referring doctors of medicine or osteopathy.

(7) If trained outside the United States before January 1, 2008, meets the following requirements:

(i) Was graduated since 1928 from a physical therapy curriculum approved in the country in which the curriculum was located and in which there is a member organization of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy.

(ii) Meets the requirements for membership in a member organization of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy.
