
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Prospective Payment System for Home Health Agencies
###### § 484.205 Basis of payment.
####### Requests for anticipated payment (RAP) for 30-day periods of care starting on January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.

(h)(1) HHAs that are certified for participation in Medicare effective by December 31, 2018 submit requests for anticipated payment (RAPs) to request the initial split percentage payment as specified in paragraph (g) of this section. HHAs that are certified for participation in Medicare effective on or after January 1, 2019 are still required to submit RAPs although no split percentage payments are made in response to these RAP submissions. The HHA can submit a RAP when all of the following conditions are met:

(i) After the OASIS assessment required at § 484.55(b)(1) and (d) is complete, locked or export ready, or there is an agency-wide internal policy establishing the OASIS data is finalized for transmission to the national assessment system.

(ii) Once a physician or allowed practitioner's verbal orders for home care have been received and documented as required at §§ 484.60(b) and 409.43(d) of this chapter.

(iii) A plan of care has been established and sent to the physician or allowed practitioner as required at § 409.43(c) of this chapter.

(iv) The first service visit under that plan has been delivered.

(2) A RAP is based on the physician or allowed practitioner signature requirements in § 409.43(c) of this chapter and is not a Medicare claim for purposes of the Act (although it is a "claim" for purposes of Federal, civil, criminal, and administrative law enforcement authorities, including but not limited to the following:

(i) Civil Monetary Penalties Law (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(i)(2)).

(ii) The Civil False Claims Act (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3729(c)).

(iii) The Criminal False Claims Act (18 U.S.C. 287)).

(iv) The RAP is canceled and recovered unless the claim is submitted within the greater of 60 days from the end date of the appropriate unit of payment, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, or 60 days from the issuance of the RAP.

(3) CMS has the authority to reduce, disprove, or cancel a RAP in situations when protecting Medicare program integrity warrants this action.
