
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Prospective Payment System for Home Health Agencies
###### ยง 484.245 Requirements under the Home Health Quality Reporting Program (HH QRP).
####### HHAPUReconsiderations@cms.hhs.gov

(2) An HHA may request an exception or extension within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred by sending an email to CMS HHAPU reconsiderations atthat contains all of the following information:

(i) HHA CMS Certification Number (CCN).

(ii) HHA Business Name.

(iii) HHA Business Address.

(iv) CEO or CEO-designated personnel contact information including name, title, telephone number, email address, and mailing address (the address must be a physical address, not a post office box).

(v) HHA's reason for requesting the exception or extension.

(vi) Evidence of the impact of extraordinary circumstances, including, but not limited to, photographs, newspaper, and other media articles.

(vii) Date when the HHA believes it will be able to again submit data under paragraph (b) of this section and a justification for the proposed date.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, CMS does not consider an exception or extension request unless the HHA requesting such exception or extension has complied fully with the requirements in this paragraph (c).

(4) CMS may grant exceptions or extensions to HHAs without a request if it determines that one or more of the following has occurred:

(i) An extraordinary circumstance, such as an act of nature, affects an entire region or locale.

(ii) A systemic problem with one of CMS's data collection systems directly affects the ability of an HHA to submit data under paragraph (b) of this section.
