
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Home Health Value-Based Purchasing (HHVBP) Models
###### HHVBP Model Components for Competing Home Health Agencies (HHAs) for HHVBP Model Expansion - Effective January 1, 2022
####### ยง 484.355 Data reporting for measures and evaluation and the public reporting of model data under the expanded Home Health Value-Based Purchasing (HHVBP) Model.
######## Patient count exemption.

(F)An HHA that has less than 60 eligible unique HHCAHPS survey patients must annually submit to CMS its total HHCAHPS survey patient count to be exempt from the HHCAHPS survey reporting requirements for a calendar year.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) Competing home health agencies are required to collect and report such information as the Secretary determines is necessary for purposes of monitoring and evaluating the expanded HHVBP Model under section 1115A(b)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1315a).

(c) For each performance year of the expanded HHVBP Model, CMS publicly reports applicable measure benchmarks and achievement thresholds for each cohort as well as all of the following for each competing HHA that qualified for a payment adjustment for the applicable performance year on a CMS website:

(1) The Total Performance Score.

(2) The percentile ranking of the Total Performance Score.

(3) The payment adjustment percentage.

(4) Applicable measure results and improvement thresholds.

(d) CMS may grant an exception with respect to quality data reporting requirements in the event of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the HHA. CMS may grant an exception as follows:

(1) A competing HHA that wishes to request an exception with respect to quality data reporting requirements must submit its request to CMS within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred. Specific requirements for submission of a request for an exception are available on the CMS website.

(2) CMS may grant an exception to one or more HHAs that have not requested an exception if CMS determines either of the following:

(i) That a systemic problem with CMS data collection systems directly affected the ability of the HHA to submit data.

(ii) That an extraordinary circumstance has affected an entire region or locale.
