
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 484 - HOME HEALTH SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Home Health Value-Based Purchasing (HHVBP) Models
###### HHVBP Model Components for Competing Home Health Agencies (HHAs) for HHVBP Model Expansion - Effective January 1, 2022
####### ยง 484.360 Calculation of the Total Performance Score.

A competing HHA's Total Performance Score for a performance year is calculated as follows:

(a) CMS awards points to the competing home health agency for performance on each of the applicable measures.

(1) CMS awards greater than or equal to 0 points and less than 10 points for achievement to each competing home health agency whose performance on a measure during the applicable performance year meets or exceeds the applicable cohort's achievement threshold but is less than the applicable cohort's benchmark for that measure.

(2) CMS awards greater than 0 but less than 9 points for improvement to each competing home health agency whose performance on a measure during the applicable performance year exceeds the improvement threshold but is less than the applicable cohort's benchmark for that measure.

(3) CMS awards 10 points to a competing home health agency whose performance on a measure during the applicable performance year meets or exceeds the applicable cohort's benchmark for that measure.

(b) For all performance years, CMS calculates the weighted sum of points awarded for each applicable measure within each category of measures (OASIS-based, claims-based, and HHCAHPS Survey-based) weighted at 35 percent for the OASIS-based measure category, 35 percent for the claims-based measure category, and 30 percent for the HHCAHPS survey measure category when all three measure categories are reported, to calculate a value worth 100 percent of the Total Performance Score.

(1) Where a single measure category is not included in the calculation of the Total Performance Score for an individual HHA, due to insufficient volume for all of the measures in the category, the remaining measure categories are reweighted such that the proportional contribution of each remaining measure category is consistent with the weights assigned when all three measure categories are available. Where two measure categories are not included in the calculation of the Total Performance Score for an individual HHA, due to insufficient volume for all measures in those measure categories, the remaining measure category is weighted at 100 percent of the Total Performance Score.

(2) When one or more, but not all, of the measures in a measure category are not included in the calculation of the Total Performance Score for an individual HHA, due to insufficient volume for at least one measure in the category, the remaining measures in the category are reweighted such that the proportional contribution of each remaining measure is consistent with the weights assigned when all measures within the category are available.

(c) The sum of the weight-adjusted points awarded to a competing HHA for each applicable measure is the competing HHA's Total Performance Score for the calendar year. A competing HHA must have a minimum of five applicable measures to receive a Total Performance Score.
