
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart B - Conditions of Participation: Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facilities
###### ยง 485.56 Condition of participation: Governing body and administration.
####### Standard: Patient care policies.

(e)The facility must have written patient care policies that govern the services it furnishes. The patient care policies must include the following:

(1) A description of the services the facility furnishes through employees and those furnished under arrangements.

(2) Rules for and personnel responsibilities in handling medical emergencies.

(3) Rules for the storage, handling, and administration of drugs and biologicals.

(4) Criteria for patient admission, continuing care, and discharge.

(5) Procedures for preparing and maintaining clinical records on all patients.

(6) A procedure for explaining to the patient and the patient's family the extent and purpose of the services to be provided.

(7) A procedure to assist the referring physician in locating another level of care for-patients whose treatment has terminated and who are discharged.

(8) A requirement that patients accepted by the facility must be under the care of a physician.

(9) A requirement that there be a plan of treatment established by a physician for each patient.

(10) A procedure to ensure that the group of professional personnel reviews and takes appropriate action on recommendations from the utilization review committee regarding patient care policies.
