
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart B - Conditions of Participation: Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facilities
###### ยง 485.58 Condition of participation: Comprehensive rehabilitation program.
####### Standard: Provision of services.

(d)(1) All patients must be referred to the facility by a physician who provides the following information to the facility before treatment is initiated:

(i) The patient's significant medical history.

(ii) Current medical findings.

(iii) Diagnosis(es) and contraindications to any treatment modality.

(iv) Rehabilitation goals, if determined.

(2) Services may be provided by facility employees or by others under arrangements made by the facility.

(3) The facility must have on its premises the necessary equipment to implement the plan of treatment and sufficient space to allow adequate care.

(4) The services must be furnished by personnel that meet the qualifications of ยง 485.70 and the number of qualified personnel must be adequate for the volume and diversity of services offered. Personnel that do not meet the qualifications specified in ยง 485.70(a) through (m) may be used by the facility in assisting qualified staff. When a qualified individual is assisted by these personnel, the qualified individual must be on the premises, and must instruct these personnel in appropriate patient care service techniques and retain responsibility for their activities.

(5) A qualified professional must initiate and coordinate the appropriate portions of the plan of treatment, monitor the patient's progress, and recommend changes, in the plan, if necessary.

(6) A qualified professional representing each service made available at the facility must be either on the premises of the facility or must be available through direct telecommunication for consultation and assistance during the facility's operating hours. At least one qualified professional must be on the premises during the facility's operating hours.

(7) All services must be provided consistent with accepted professional standards and practice.
