
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart B - Conditions of Participation: Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facilities
###### ยง 485.56 Condition of participation: Governing body and administration.
####### Standard: Delegation of authority.

(f)The responsibility for overall administration, management, and operation must be retained by the facility itself and not delegated to others.

(1) The facility may enter into a contract for purposes of assistance in financial management and may delegate to others the following and similar services:

(i) Bookkeeping.

(ii) Assistance in the development of procedures for billing and accounting systems.

(iii) Assistance in the development of an operating budget.

(iv) Purchase of supplies in bulk form.

(v) The preparation of financial statements.

(2) When the services listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are delegated, a contract must be in effect and:

(i) May not be for a term of more than 5 years;

(ii) Must be subject to termination within 60 days of written notice by either party;

(iii) Must contain a clause requiring renegotiation of any provision that CMS finds to be in contravention to any new, revised or amended Federal regulation or law;

(iv) Must state that only the facility may bill the Medicare program; and

(v) May not include clauses that state or imply that the contractor has power and authority to act on behalf of the facility, or clauses that give the contractor rights, duties, discretions, or responsibilities that enable it to dictate the administration, management, or operations of the facility.
