
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart B - Conditions of Participation: Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facilities
###### ยง 485.62 Condition of participation: Physical environment.
####### Standard: Safety and comfort of patients.

(a)The physical premises of the facility and those areas of its surrounding physical structure that are used by the patients (including at least all stairwells, corridors and passageways) must meet the following requirements:

(1) Applicable Federal, State, and local building, fire, and safety codes must be met.

(2) Fire extinguishers must be easily accessible and fire regulations must be prominently posted.

(3) A fire alarm system with local (in-house) capability must be functional, and where power is generated by electricity, an alternate power source with automatic triggering must be present.

(4) Lights, supported by an emergency power source, must be placed at exits.

(5) A sufficient number of staff to evacuate patients during a disaster must be on the premises of the facility whenever patients are being treated.

(6) Lighting must be sufficient to carry out services safely; room temperature must be maintained at comfortable levels; and ventilation through windows, mechanical means, or a combination of both must be provided.

(7) Safe and sufficient space must be available for the scope of services offered.
