
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart B - Conditions of Participation: Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facilities
###### ยง 485.68 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Communication plan.

(c)The CORF must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, State, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. The communication plan must include all of the following:

(1) Names and contact information for the following:

(i) Staff.

(ii) Entities providing services under arrangement.

(iii) Patients' physicians.

(iv) Other CORFs.

(v) Volunteers.

(2) Contact information for the following:

(i) Federal, State, tribal, regional and local emergency preparedness staff.

(ii) Other sources of assistance.

(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the CORF's staff, Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency management agencies.

(4) A method for sharing information and medical documentation for patients under the CORF's care, as necessary, with other health care providers to maintain the continuity of care.

(5) A means of providing information about the CORF's needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction or the Incident Command Center, or designee.
