
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart E - Conditions of Participation: Rural Emergency Hospitals (REHs)
###### ยง 485.510 Condition of participation: Governing body and organizational structure of the REH
####### Standard: Medical staff.

(a)The governing body must:

(1) Determine, in accordance with state law, which categories of practitioners are eligible candidates for appointment to the medical staff.

(2) Appoint members of the medical staff after considering the recommendations of the existing members of the medical staff.

(3) Ensure that the medical staff has bylaws.

(4) Approve medical staff bylaws and other medical staff rules and regulations.

(5) Ensure that the medical staff is accountable to the governing body for the quality of care provided to patients.

(6) Ensure the criteria for selection are individual character, competence, training, experience, and judgment.

(i) Members of the medical staff must be legally and professionally qualified for the positions to which they are appointed and for the performance of privileges granted. The REH grants privileges in accordance with recommendations from qualified medical personnel.

(ii) Medical staff privileges must be periodically reappraised by the REH. The scope of procedures performed in the REH must be periodically reviewed and amended as appropriate.

(iii) If the REH assigns patient care responsibilities to practitioners other than physicians, it must have established policies and procedures, approved by the governing body, for overseeing and evaluating their clinical activities.

(7) Ensure that under no circumstances is the accordance of staff membership or professional privileges in the REH dependent solely upon certification, fellowship, or membership in a specialty body or society.

(8) Ensure that, when telemedicine services are furnished to the REH's patients through an agreement with a distant-site hospital, the agreement is written and that it specifies that it is the responsibility of the governing body of the distant-site hospital to meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section with regard to the distant-site hospital's physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services. The governing body of the REH whose patients are receiving the telemedicine services may, in accordance with ยง 485.512(a)(3), grant privileges based on its medical staff recommendations that rely on information provided by the distant-site hospital.

(9) Ensure that when telemedicine services are furnished to the REH's patients through an agreement with a distant-site telemedicine entity, the written agreement specifies that the distant-site telemedicine entity is a contractor of services to the REH and as such, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, furnishes the contracted services in a manner that permits the REH to comply with all applicable conditions of participation for the contracted services, including, but not limited to, the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section with regard to the distant-site telemedicine entity's physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services. The governing body of the REH whose patients are receiving the telemedicine services may, in accordance with ยง 485.512(a)(4), grant privileges to physicians and practitioners employed by the distant-site telemedicine entity based on such REH's medical staff recommendations; such staff recommendations may rely on information provided by the distant-site telemedicine entity.

(10) Consult directly with the individual assigned the responsibility for the organization and conduct of the REH's medical staff, or their designee. At a minimum, this direct consultation must occur periodically throughout the fiscal or calendar year and include discussion of matters related to the quality of medical care provided to patients of the REH. For a multi-facility system, including a multi-hospital or multi-REH system, using a single governing body, the single multi-facility or multi-REH system governing body must consult directly with the individual responsible for the organized medical staff (or their designee) of each hospital or REH within its system in addition to the other requirements of this paragraph (a).
