
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart E - Conditions of Participation: Rural Emergency Hospitals (REHs)
###### ยง 485.514 Condition of participation: Provision of services.

(a) The REH's health care services must be furnished in accordance with appropriate written policies that are consistent with applicable state law.

(b) The policies must be developed with the advice of members of the REH's professional health care staff, including one or more doctors of medicine or osteopathy and one or more physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or clinical nurse specialists, if they are on staff under the provisions of ยง 485.528(b)(1).

(c) The policies must include the following:

(1) A description of the services the REH furnishes, including those furnished through agreement or arrangement.

(2) Policies and procedures for emergency medical services.

(3) Guidelines for the medical management of health problems that include the conditions requiring medical consultation and/or patient referral, the maintenance of health care records, and procedures for the periodic review and evaluation of the services furnished by the REH.

(4) Policies and procedures that address the post-acute care needs of patients receiving services in the REH.

(d) The policies must be reviewed at least biennially by the group of professional personnel required under paragraph (b) of this section and updated as necessary by the REH.
