
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart E - Conditions of Participation: Rural Emergency Hospitals (REHs)
###### ยง 485.524 Condition of participation: Additional outpatient medical and health services.
####### Standard:

(b)Personnel for additional outpatient and medical health services. The REH must-

(1) Assign one or more individuals to be responsible for outpatient services.

(2) Have appropriate professional and nonprofessional personnel available at each location where outpatient services are offered, based on the scope and complexity of outpatient services.

(3) For any specialty services offered at the REH, have a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant providing services with experience and training in the specialty service area and in accordance with their scope of practice.

(c) Standard: Orders for outpatient medical and health services. Outpatient medical and health services must be ordered by a practitioner who meets the following conditions:

(1) Is responsible for the care of the patient.

(2) Is licensed in the state where they provide care to the patient.

(3) Is acting within their scope of practice under state law.

(4) Is authorized in accordance with state law and policies adopted by the medical staff, and approved by the governing body, to order the applicable outpatient services. This applies to the following:

(i) All practitioners who are appointed to the REH's medical staff and who have been granted privileges to order the applicable outpatient services.

(ii) All practitioners not appointed to the medical staff, but who satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section for authorization by the medical staff and the REH for ordering the applicable outpatient services for their patients.
