
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart E - Conditions of Participation: Rural Emergency Hospitals (REHs)
###### ยง 485.526 Condition of participation: Infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs.
####### COVID-19 and seasonal influenza reporting.

(e)Beginning at the conclusion of the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, and continuing until April 30, 2024, except when the Secretary specifies an earlier end date for the requirements of this paragraph (e), the REH must electronically report information about COVID-19 and seasonal influenza in a standardized format specified by the Secretary.

(1) Related to COVID-19, to the extent as required by the Secretary, this report must include the following data elements:

(i) Suspected and confirmed COVID-19 infections among patients and staff.

(ii) Total COVID-19 deaths among patients and staff.

(iii) Personal protective equipment and testing supplies.

(iv) Ventilator use, capacity, and supplies.

(v) Total patient census and capacity.

(vi) Staffing shortages.

(vii) COVID-19 vaccine administration data of patients and staff.

(viii) Relevant therapeutic inventories or usage, or both.

(2) Related to seasonal influenza, to the extent as required by the Secretary, this report must include the following data elements:

(i) Confirmed influenza infections among patients and staff.

(ii) Total influenza deaths among patients and staff.

(iii) Confirmed co-morbid influenza and COVID-19 infections among patients and staff.
