
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart E - Conditions of Participation: Rural Emergency Hospitals (REHs)
###### ยง 485.526 Condition of participation: Infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs.
####### Standard: Reporting of data related to viral and bacterial pathogens and infectious diseases of pandemic or epidemic potential.

(f)The REH must electronically report information on acute respiratory illness (including, but not limited to, seasonal influenza virus, influenza-like illness, and severe acute respiratory infection), SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19, and other viral and bacterial pathogens and infectious diseases of pandemic or epidemic potential only when the Secretary has declared a Public Health Emergency (PHE), as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, directly related to such specific pathogens and infectious diseases. The requirements of this paragraph (f) will be applicable to local, state, regional, or national PHEs as declared by the Secretary.

(1) The REH must electronically report information about the infectious disease pathogen, relevant to the declared PHE, in a standardized format specified by the Secretary. To the extent as required by the Secretary, this report must include, the following:

(i) Suspected and confirmed infections of the relevant infectious disease pathogen among patients and staff.

(ii) Total deaths attributed to the relevant infectious disease pathogen among patients and staff.

(iii) Personal protective equipment and other relevant supplies in the REH.

(iv) Capacity and supplies in the REH relevant to the immediate and long term treatment of the relevant infectious disease pathogen, such as ventilator and dialysis/continuous renal replacement therapy capacity and supplies.

(v) Total patient census, capacity, and capability.

(vi) Staffing shortages.

(vii) Vaccine administration data of patients and staff for conditions monitored under this section and where a specific vaccine is applicable.

(viii) Relevant therapeutic inventories or usage, or both.

(ix) Isolation capacity, including airborne isolation capacity.

(x) Key co-morbidities or exposure risk factors, or both, of patients being treated for the pathogen or disease of interest in this section that are captured with interoperable data standards and elements.

(2) Unless the Secretary specifies an alternative format by which the REH must report these data elements, the REH must report the applicable infection (confirmed and suspected) and vaccination data in a format that provides person-level information, which must include medical record identifier, race, ethnicity, age, sex, residential county and zip code, and relevant comorbidities for affected patients. Facilities must not report any directly or potentially individually-identifiable information for affected patients (for example, name, social security number) that is not set out in this section or otherwise specified by the Secretary.

(3) The REH must provide the information specified in this paragraph (f) on a daily basis, unless the Secretary specifies a lesser frequency, to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network or other CDC-supported surveillance systems as determined by the Secretary.
