
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart F - Conditions of Participation: Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs)
###### ยง 485.623 Condition of participation: Physical plant and environment.
####### Standard: Life safety from fire.

(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section-

(i) The CAH must meet the applicable provisions and must proceed in accordance with the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-1, TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, and TIA 12-4.)

(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, corridor doors and doors to rooms containing flammable or combustible materials must be provided with positive latching hardware. Roller latches are prohibited on such doors.

(2) In consideration of a recommendation by the State survey agency or Accrediting Organization or at the discretion of the Secretary, may waive, for periods deemed appropriate, specific provisions of the Life Safety Code, which would result in unreasonable hardship upon a CAH, but only if the waiver will not adversely affect the health and safety of the patients.

(3) After consideration of State survey agency findings, CMS may waive specific provisions of the Life Safety Code that, if rigidly applied, would result in unreasonable hardship on the CAH, but only if the waiver does not adversely affect the health and safety of patients.

(4) The CAH maintains written evidence of regular inspection and approval by State or local fire control agencies.

(5) A CAH may install alcohol-based hand rub dispensers in its facility if the dispensers are installed in a manner that adequately protects against inappropriate access.

(6) When a sprinkler system is shut down for more than 10 hours, the CAH must:

(i) Evacuate the building or portion of the building affected by the system outage until the system is back in service, or

(ii) Establish a fire watch until the system is back in service.

(7) Buildings must have an outside window or outside door in every sleeping room, and for any building constructed after July 5, 2016 the sill height must not exceed 36 inches above the floor. Windows in atrium walls are considered outside windows for the purposes of this requirement.

(i) The sill height requirement does not apply to newborn nurseries and rooms intended for occupancy for less than 24 hours.

(ii) Special nursing care areas of new occupancies shall not exceed 60 inches.
