
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart F - Conditions of Participation: Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs)
###### ยง 485.635 Condition of participation: Provision of services.
####### Standard: Services provided through agreements or arrangements.

(c)(1) The CAH has agreements or arrangements (as appropriate) with one or more providers or suppliers participating under Medicare to furnish other services to its patients, including-

(i) Services of doctors of medicine or osteopathy;

(ii) Additional or specialized diagnostic and clinical laboratory services that are not available at the CAH; and

(iii) Food and other services to meet inpatients' nutritional needs to the extent these services are not provided directly by the CAH.

(2) If the agreements or arrangements are not in writing, the CAH is able to present evidence that patients referred by the CAH are being accepted and treated.

(3) The CAH maintains a list of all services furnished under arrangements or agreements. The list describes the nature and scope of the services provided.

(4) The person principally responsible for the operation of the CAH under ยง 485.627(b)(2) of this chapter is also responsible for the following:

(i) Services furnished in the CAH whether or not they are furnished under arrangements or agreements.

(ii) Ensuring that a contractor of services (including one for shared services and joint ventures) furnishes services that enable the CAH to comply with all applicable conditions of participation and standards for the contracted services.

(5) In the case of distant-site physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services to the CAH's patients under a written agreement between the CAH and a distant-site telemedicine entity, the distant-site telemedicine entity is not required to be a Medicare-participating provider or supplier.
