
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart F - Conditions of Participation: Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs)
###### ยง 485.635 Condition of participation: Provision of services.
####### Standard: Patient care policies.

(a)(1) The CAH's health care services are furnished in accordance with appropriate written policies that are consistent with applicable State law.

(2) The policies are developed with the advice of members of the CAH's professional healthcare staff, including one or more doctors of medicine or osteopathy and one or more physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or clinical nurse specialists, if they are on staff under the provisions of ยง 485.631(a)(1).

(3) The policies include the following:

(i) A description of the services the CAH furnishes, including those furnished through agreement or arrangement.

(ii) Policies and procedures for emergency medical services.

(iii) Guidelines for the medical management of health problems that include the conditions requiring medical consultation and/or patient referral, the maintenance of health care records, and procedures for the periodic review and evaluation of the services furnished by the CAH.

(iv) Rules for the storage, handling, dispensation, and administration of drugs and biologicals. These rules must provide that there is a drug storage area that is administered in accordance with accepted professional principles, that current and accurate records are kept of the receipt and disposition of all scheduled drugs, and that outdated, mislabeled, or otherwise unusable drugs are not available for patient use.

(v) Procedures for reporting adverse drug reactions and errors in the administration of drugs.

(vi) Procedures that ensure that the nutritional needs of inpatients are met in accordance with recognized dietary practices. All patient diets, including therapeutic diets, must be ordered by the practitioner responsible for the care of the patients or by a qualified dietitian or qualified nutrition professional as authorized by the medical staff in accordance with State law governing dietitians and nutrition professionals and that the requirement of ยง 483.25(i) of this chapter is met with respect to inpatients receiving post CAH SNF care.

(vii) [Reserved]

(viii) Policies and procedures that address the post-acute care needs of patients receiving CAH services.

(4) These policies are reviewed at least biennially by the group of professional personnel required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and updated as necessary by the CAH.
