
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart F - Conditions of Participation: Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs)
###### ยง 485.638 Conditions of participation: Clinical records.
####### Standard: Electronic notifications.

(d)If the CAH utilizes an electronic medical records system or other electronic administrative system, which is conformant with the content exchange standard at 45 CFR 170.205(d)(2), then the CAH must demonstrate that-

(1) The system's notification capacity is fully operational and the CAH uses it in accordance with all State and Federal statutes and regulations applicable to the CAH's exchange of patient health information.

(2) The system sends notifications that must include at least patient name, treating practitioner name, and sending institution name.

(3) To the extent permissible under applicable federal and state law and regulations, and not inconsistent with the patient's expressed privacy preferences, the system sends notifications directly, or through an intermediary that facilitates exchange of health information, at the time of:

(i) The patient's registration in the CAH's emergency department (if applicable).

(ii) The patient's admission to the CAH's inpatient services (if applicable).

(4) To the extent permissible under applicable federal and state law and regulations, and not inconsistent with the patient's expressed privacy preferences, the system sends notifications directly, or through an intermediary that facilitates exchange of health information, either immediately prior to, or at the time of:

(i) The patient's discharge or transfer from the CAH's emergency department (if applicable).

(ii) The patient's discharge or transfer from the CAH's inpatient services (if applicable).

(5) The CAH has made a reasonable effort to ensure that the system sends the notifications to all applicable post-acute care services providers and suppliers, as well as to any of the following practitioners and entities, which need to receive notification of the patient's status for treatment, care coordination, or quality improvement purposes:

(i) The patient's established primary care practitioner;

(ii) The patient's established primary care practice group or entity; or

(iii) Other practitioner, or other practice group or entity, identified by the patient as the practitioner, or practice group or entity, primarily responsible for his or her care.
