
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart F - Conditions of Participation: Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs)
###### ยง 485.640 Condition of participation: Infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs.
####### COVID-19 reporting.

(d)(1) During the Public Health Emergency, as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, the CAH must report information in accordance with a frequency as specified by the Secretary on COVID-19 in a standardized format specified by the Secretary. This report must include, but not be limited to, the following data elements:

(i) The CAH's current inventory supplies of any COVID-19-related therapeutics that have been distributed and delivered to the CAH under the authority and direction of the Secretary; and

(ii) The CAH's current usage rate for any COVID-19-related therapeutics that have been distributed and delivered to the CAH under the authority and direction of the Secretary.

(2) Beginning at the conclusion of the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, and continuing until April 30, 2024, except when the Secretary specifies an earlier end date for the requirements of this paragraph (d)(2), the CAH must electronically report information about COVID-19 in a standardized format specified by the Secretary. To the extent as required by the Secretary, this report must include the following data elements:

(i) Confirmed COVID-19 infections among patients.

(ii) Total deaths among patients.

(iii) Personal protective equipment and testing supplies.

(iv) Ventilator use, capacity, and supplies.

(v) Total bed and intensive care unit bed census and capacity.

(vi) Staffing shortages.

(vii) COVID-19 vaccine administration data of patients and staff.

(viii) Relevant therapeutic inventories or usage, or both.
