
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart H - Conditions of Participation for Clinics, Rehabilitation Agencies, and Public Health Agencies as Providers of Outpatient Physical Therapy and Speech-Language Pathology Services
###### ยง 485.723 Condition of participation: Physical environment.
####### Standard: Safety of patients.

(a)The organization satisfies the following requirements:

(1) It complies with all applicable State and local building, fire, and safety codes.

(2) Permanently attached automatic fire-extinguishing systems of adequate capacity are installed in all areas of the premises considered to have special fire hazards. Fire extinguishers are conveniently located on each floor of the premises. Fire regulations are prominently posted.

(3) Doorways, passageways and stairwells negotiated by patients are:

(i) Of adequate width to allow for easy movement of all patients (including those on stretchers or in wheelchairs), (ii) free from obstruction at all times, and (iii) in the case of stairwells, equipped with firmly attached handrails on at least one side.

(4) Lights are placed at exits and in corridors used by patients and are supported by an emergency power source.

(5) A fire alarm system with local alarm capability and, where applicable, an emergency power source, is functional.

(6) At least two persons are on duty on the premises of the organization whenever a patient is being treated.

(7) No occupancies or activities undesirable or injurious to the health and safety of patients are located in the building.
