
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.910 Condition of participation: Client rights.
####### Standard: Restraint and seclusion.

(e)(1) All clients have the right to be free from physical or mental abuse, and corporal punishment. All clients have the right to be free from restraint or seclusion, of any form, imposed as a means of coercion, discipline, convenience, or retaliation by staff. Restraint or seclusion, defined in ยง 485.902, may only be imposed to ensure the immediate physical safety of the client, staff, or other individuals.

(2) The use of restraint or seclusion must be in accordance with the written order of a physician or other licensed independent practitioner who is authorized to order restraint or seclusion in accordance with State law and must not exceed one 1-hour duration per order.

(3) The CMHC must obtain a corresponding order for the client's immediate transfer to a hospital when restraint or seclusion is ordered.

(4) Orders for the use of restraint or seclusion must never be written as a standing order or on an as-needed basis.

(5) When a client becomes an immediate threat to the physical safety of himself or herself, staff or other individuals, the CMHC must adhere to the following requirements:

(i) Restraint or seclusion may only be used when less restrictive interventions have been determined to be ineffective to protect the client or other individuals from harm.

(ii) The type or technique of restraint or seclusion used must be the least restrictive intervention that will be effective to protect the client or other individuals from harm.

(iii) The use of restraint or seclusion must be implemented in accordance with safe and appropriate restraint and seclusion techniques as determined by State law.

(iv) The condition of the client who is restrained or secluded must be continuously monitored by a physician or by trained staff who have completed the training criteria specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(v) When restraint or seclusion is used, there must be documentation in the client's clinical record of the following:

(A) A description of the client's behavior and the intervention used.

(B) Alternatives or other less restrictive interventions attempted (as applicable).

(C) The client's condition or symptom(s) that warranted the use of the restraint or seclusion.

(D) The client's response to the intervention(s) used, including the rationale for continued use of the intervention.

(E) The name of the hospital to which the client was transferred.
