
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.910 Condition of participation: Client rights.
####### Training content.

(2)The CMHC must require all appropriate staff caring for clients to have appropriate education, training, and demonstrated knowledge based on the specific needs of the client population in at least the following:

(i) Techniques to identify staff and client behaviors, events, and environmental factors that may trigger circumstances that could require the use of restraint or seclusion.

(ii) The use of nonphysical intervention skills.

(iii) In facilities where restraint and seclusion are permitted, choosing the least restrictive intervention based on an individualized assessment of the client's medical and behavioral status or condition.

(iv) The safe application and use of all types of restraint or seclusion that are permitted in the CMHC, including training in how to recognize and respond to signs of physical and psychological distress.

(v) In facilities where restraint and seclusion are permitted, clinical identification of specific behavioral changes that indicate that restraint or seclusion is no longer necessary.

(vi) In facilities where restraint and seclusion are permitted, monitoring the physical and psychological well-being of the client who is restrained or secluded, including, but not limited to, respiratory and circulatory status, skin integrity, vital signs, and any special requirements specified by the CMHC's policy.
