
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.914 Condition of participation: Admission, initial evaluation, comprehensive assessment, and discharge or transfer of the client.
####### Standard: Discharge or transfer of the client.

(e)(1) If the client is transferred to another entity, the CMHC must, within 2 working days, forward to the entity, a copy of-

(i) The CMHC discharge summary.

(ii) The client's clinical record, if requested.

(2) If a client refuses the services of a CMHC, or is discharged from a CMHC due to noncompliance with the treatment plan, the CMHC must forward to the primary health care provider (if any) a copy of-

(i) The CMHC discharge summary.

(ii) The client's clinical record, if requested.

(3) The CMHC discharge summary must include-

(i) A summary of the services provided, including the client's symptoms, treatment and recovery goals and preferences, treatments, and therapies.

(ii) The client's current active treatment plan at time of discharge.

(iii) The client's most recent physician orders.

(iv) Any other documentation that will assist in post-discharge continuity of care.

(4) The CMHC must adhere to all Federal and State-related requirements pertaining to the medical privacy and the release of client information.
