
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.914 Condition of participation: Admission, initial evaluation, comprehensive assessment, and discharge or transfer of the client.
####### Standard: Initial evaluation.

(b)(1) A licensed mental health professional employed by the CMHC and acting within his or her state scope of practice requirements must complete the initial evaluation within 24 hours of the client's admission to the CMHC.

(2) The initial evaluation, at a minimum, must include the following:

(i) The admitting diagnosis as well as other diagnoses.

(ii) The source of referral.

(iii) The reason for admission as stated by the client or other individuals who are significantly involved.

(iv) Identification of the client's immediate clinical care needs related to the psychiatric diagnosis.

(v) A list of current prescriptions and over-the-counter medications, as well as other substances that the client may be taking.

(vi) For partial hospitalization services only, include an explanation as to why the client would be at risk for hospitalization if the partial hospitalization services were not provided.

(3) Based on the findings of the initial evaluation, the CMHC must determine the appropriate members of each client's interdisciplinary treatment team.
