
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.914 Condition of participation: Admission, initial evaluation, comprehensive assessment, and discharge or transfer of the client.
####### Standard: Comprehensive assessment.

(c)(1) The comprehensive assessment must be completed by licensed mental health professionals who are members of the interdisciplinary treatment team, performing within their State's scope of practice.

(2) The comprehensive assessment must be completed in a timely manner, consistent with the client's immediate needs, but no later than 4 working days after admission to the CMHC.

(3) The comprehensive assessment must identify the physical, psychological, psychosocial, emotional, therapeutic, and other needs related to the client's psychiatric illness. The CMHC's interdisciplinary treatment team must ensure that the active treatment plan is consistent with the findings of the comprehensive assessment.

(4) The comprehensive assessment, at a minimum, must include the following:

(i) The reasons for the admission.

(ii) A psychiatric evaluation, completed by a psychiatrist, non-physician practitioner or psychologist practicing within the scope of State licensure that includes the medical history and severity of symptoms. Information may be gathered from the client's primary health care provider (if any), contingent upon the client's consent.

(iii) Information concerning previous and current mental status, including but not limited to, previous therapeutic interventions and hospitalizations.

(iv) Information regarding the onset of symptoms of the illness and circumstances leading to the admission.

(v) A description of attitudes and behaviors, including cultural and environmental factors that may affect the client's treatment plan.

(vi) An assessment of intellectual functioning, memory functioning, and orientation.

(vii) Complications and risk factors that may affect the care planning.

(viii) Functional status, including the client's ability to understand and participate in his or her own care, and the client's strengths and goals.

(ix) Factors affecting client safety or the safety of others, including behavioral and physical factors, as well as suicide risk factors.

(x) A drug profile that includes a review of all of the client's prescription and over-the-counter medications; herbal remedies; and other alternative treatments or substances that could affect drug therapy.

(xi) The need for referrals and further evaluation by appropriate health care professionals, including the client's primary health care provider (if any), when warranted.

(xii) Factors to be considered in discharge planning.

(xiii) Identification of the client's current social and health care support systems.

(xiv) For pediatric clients, the CMHC must assess the social service needs of the client, and make referrals to social services and child welfare agencies as appropriate.
