
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.916 Condition of participation: Treatment team, person-centered active treatment plan, and coordination of services.
####### Standard: Content of the person-centered active treatment plan.

(c)The CMHC must develop a person-centered individualized active treatment plan for each client. The active treatment plan must take into consideration client recovery goals and the issues identified in the comprehensive assessment. The active treatment plan must include all services necessary to assist the client in meeting his or her recovery goals, including the following:

(1) Client diagnoses.

(2) Treatment goals.

(3) Interventions.

(4) A detailed statement of the type, duration, and frequency of services, including social work, psychiatric nursing, counseling, and therapy services, necessary to meet the client's specific needs.

(5) Drugs, treatments, and individual and/or group therapies.

(6) Family psychotherapy with the primary focus on treatment of the client's conditions.

(7) The interdisciplinary treatment team's documentation of the client's or representative's and primary caregiver's (if any) understanding, involvement, and agreement with the plan of care, in accordance with the CMHC's policies.
