
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.916 Condition of participation: Treatment team, person-centered active treatment plan, and coordination of services.
####### Standard: Delivery of services.

(a)(1) An interdisciplinary treatment team, led by a physician, NP, PA, CNS, clinical psychologist, or clinical social worker, must provide the care and services offered by the CMHC.

(2) Based on the findings of the comprehensive assessment, the CMHC must determine the appropriate licensed mental health professional, who is a member of the client's interdisciplinary treatment team, to coordinate care and treatment decisions with each client, to ensure that each client's needs are assessed, and to ensure that the active treatment plan is implemented as indicated.

(3) The interdisciplinary treatment team may include:

(i) A doctor of medicine, osteopathy or psychiatry (who is an employee of or under contract with the CMHC).

(ii) A psychiatric registered nurse.

(iii) A clinical social worker.

(iv) A clinical psychologist.

(v) An occupational therapist.

(vi) Other licensed mental health professionals, as necessary.

(vii) Other CMHC staff or volunteers, as necessary.

(4) If the CMHC has more than one interdisciplinary team, it must designate the treatment team responsible for establishing policies and procedures governing the coordination of services and the day-to-day provision of CMHC care and services.
