
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 485 - CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION: SPECIALIZED PROVIDERS
##### Subpart J - Conditions of Participation: Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs)
###### ยง 485.918 Condition of participation: Organization, governance, administration of services, and partial hospitalization services.
####### Standard: Provision of services.

(b)(1) A CMHC must be primarily engaged in providing the following care and services to all clients served by the CMHC regardless of payer type, and must do so in a manner that is consistent with the following accepted standards of practice:

(i) Provides outpatient services, including specialized outpatient services for children, elderly individuals, individuals with serious mental illness, and residents of its mental health service area who have been discharged from inpatient mental health facilities.

(ii) Provides 24-hour-a-day emergency care services.

(iii) Provides day treatment, partial hospitalization services other than in an individual's home or in an inpatient or residential setting, or psychosocial rehabilitation services.

(iv) Provides screening for clients being considered for admission to State mental health facilities to determine the appropriateness of such services, unless otherwise directed by State law.

(v) Provides at least 40 percent of its items and services to individuals who are not eligible for benefits under title XVIII of the Act, as measured by the total number of CMHC clients treated by the CMHC for whom services are not paid for by Medicare, divided by the total number of clients treated by the CMHC for each 12-month period of enrollment.

(A) A CMHC is required to submit to CMS a certification statement provided by an independent entity that certifies that the CMHC's client population meets the 40 percent requirement specified at this paragraph (b)(1)(v).

(B) The certification statement described in paragraph (b)(1)(v)(A) of this section is required upon initial application to enroll in Medicare, and as a part of revalidation, including any off cycle revalidation, thereafter carried out pursuant to ยง 424.530 of this chapter. Medicare enrollment will be denied or revoked in instances where the CMHC fails to provide the certification statement as required. Medicare enrollment will also be denied or revoked if the 40 percent requirement as specified in this paragraph (b)(1)(v) is not met.

(vi) Provides individual and group psychotherapy utilizing a psychiatrist, psychologist, or other licensed mental health counselor, to the extent authorized under State law.

(vii) Provides physician services.

(viii) Provides psychiatric nursing services.

(ix) Provides clinical social work services.

(x) Provides family counseling services, with the primary purpose of treating the individual's condition.

(xi) Provides occupational therapy services.

(xii) Provides services of other staff trained to work with psychiatric clients.

(xiii) Provides drugs and biologicals furnished for therapeutic purposes that cannot be self-administered.

(xiv) Provides client training and education as related to the individual's care and active treatment.

(xv) Provides individualized therapeutic activity services that are not primarily recreational or diversionary.

(xvi) Provides diagnostic services.

(2) The CMHC and individuals furnishing services on its behalf must meet applicable State licensing and certification requirements.
