
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 486 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE OF SPECIALIZED SERVICES FURNISHED BY SUPPLIERS
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Certification and Designation and Conditions for Coverage: Organ Procurement Organizations
###### Requirements for Certification and Designation
####### ยง 486.303 Requirements for certification.

In order to be certified as a qualified organ procurement organization, an organ procurement organization must:

(a) Have received a grant under 42 U.S.C. 273(a) or have been certified or re-certified by the Secretary within the previous 4 years as being a qualified OPO.

(b) Be a non-profit entity that is exempt from Federal income taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(c) Have accounting and other fiscal procedures necessary to assure the fiscal stability of the organization, including procedures to obtain payment for kidneys and non-renal organs provided to transplant hospitals.

(d) Have an agreement with CMS, as the Secretary's designated representative, to be reimbursed under title XVIII for the procurement of kidneys.

(e) Have been re-certified as an OPO under the Medicare program from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005.

(f) Have procedures to obtain payment for non-renal organs provided to transplant centers.

(g) Agree to enter into an agreement with any hospital or critical access hospital in the OPO's service area, including a transplant hospital that requests an agreement.

(h) Meet the conditions for coverage for organ procurement organizations, which include both outcome and process performance measures.

(i) Meet the provisions of titles XI, XVIII, and XIX of the Act, section 371(b) of the Public Health Services Act, and any other applicable Federal regulations.
