
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 486 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE OF SPECIALIZED SERVICES FURNISHED BY SUPPLIERS
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Certification and Designation and Conditions for Coverage: Organ Procurement Organizations
###### Requirements for Certification and Designation
####### ยง 486.308 Designation of one OPO for each service area.
######## Re-Certification.

(2)Re-certification must occur not more frequently than once every 4 years.

(c) Unless CMS has granted a hospital a waiver under paragraphs

(d) through (f) of this section, the hospital must enter into an agreement only with the OPO designated to serve the area in which the hospital is located.

(d) If CMS changes the OPO designated for an area, hospitals located in that area must enter into agreements with the newly designated OPO or submit a request for a waiver in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section within 30 days of notice of the change in designation.

(e) A hospital may request and CMS may grant a waiver permitting the hospital to have an agreement with a designated OPO other than the OPO designated for the service area in which the hospital is located. To qualify for a waiver, the hospital must submit data to CMS establishing that-

(1) The waiver is expected to increase organ donations; and

(2) The waiver will ensure equitable treatment of patients listed for transplants within the service area served by the hospital's designated OPO and within the service area served by the OPO with which the hospital seeks to enter into an agreement.

(f) In making a determination on waiver requests, CMS considers-

(1) Cost effectiveness;

(2) Improvements in quality;

(3) Changes in a hospital's designated OPO due to changes in the definitions of metropolitan statistical areas, if applicable; and

(4) The length and continuity of a hospital's relationship with an OPO other than the hospital's designated OPO.

(g) A hospital may continue to operate under its existing agreement with an out-of-area OPO while CMS is processing the waiver request. If a waiver request is denied, a hospital must enter into an agreement with the designated OPO within 30 days of notification of the final determination.
