
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 486 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE OF SPECIALIZED SERVICES FURNISHED BY SUPPLIERS
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Certification and Designation and Conditions for Coverage: Organ Procurement Organizations
###### Re-Certification and De-Certification
####### ยง 486.314 Appeals.
######## Conduct of hearing.

(g)(1) The hearing is open to both parties, CMS and the OPO.

(2) The hearing officer inquires fully into all the matters at issue and receives in evidence the testimony of witnesses and any documents that are relevant and material.

(3) The hearing officer provides the parties with an opportunity to enter an objection to the inclusion of any document. The hearing officer will consider the objection and will rule on the document's admissibility.

(4) The hearing officer decides the order in which the evidence and the arguments of the parties are presented and the conduct of the hearing.

(5) The hearing officer rules on the admissibility of evidence and may admit evidence that would be inadmissible under rules applicable to court procedures.

(6) The hearing officer rules on motions and other procedural items.

(7) The hearing officer regulates the course of the hearing and conduct of counsel.

(8) The hearing officer may examine witnesses.

(9) The hearing officer takes any action authorized by the rules in this subpart.

(h) Parties' rights. CMS and the OPO may:

(1) Appear by counsel or other authorized representative, in all hearing proceedings.

(2) Participate in any pre-hearing conference held by the hearing officer.

(3) Agree to stipulations as to facts which will be made a part of the record.

(4) Make opening statements at the hearing.

(5) Present relevant evidence on the issues at the hearing.

(6) Present witnesses, who then must be available for cross-examination, and cross-examine witnesses presented by the other party.

(7) Present oral arguments at the hearing.

(i) Hearing officer's decision. The hearing officer renders a decision on the appeal of the notice of de-certification within 20 business days of the hearing.
