
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 486 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE OF SPECIALIZED SERVICES FURNISHED BY SUPPLIERS
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Certification and Designation and Conditions for Coverage: Organ Procurement Organizations
###### Organ Procurement Organization Process Performance Measures
####### ยง 486.342 Condition: Requesting consent.

An OPO must encourage discretion and sensitivity with respect to the circumstances, views, and beliefs of potential donor families.

(a) An OPO must have a written protocol to ensure that, in the absence of a donor document, the individual(s) responsible for making the donation decision are informed of their options to donate organs or tissues (when the OPO is making a request for tissues) or to decline to donate. The OPO must provide to the individual(s) responsible for making the donation decision, at a minimum, the following:

(1) A list of the organs and/or tissues that may be recovered.

(2) The most likely uses for the donated organs or tissues.

(3) A description of the screening and recovery processes.

(4) Information about the organizations that will recover, process, and distribute the tissue.

(5) Information regarding access to and release of the donor's medical records.

(6) An explanation of the impact the donation process will have on burial arrangements and the appearance of the donor's body.

(7) Contact information for individual(s) with questions or concerns.

(8) A copy of the signed consent form if a donation is made.

(b) If an OPO does not request consent to donation because a potential donor consented to donation before his or her death in a manner that satisfied applicable State law requirements in the potential donor's State of residence, the OPO must provide information about the donation to the family of the potential donor, as requested.
