
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 62 - NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS SCHOLARSHIP AND LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program
###### ยง 62.26 What does an individual have to do in return for loan repayments received under the Loan Repayment Program?

(a) A Program participant whose eligibility for the Loan Repayment Program is based on ยง 62.24(a)(1)(i) of this subpart must maintain full-time enrollment, at an acceptable level of academic standing, in that course of study until its completion. Upon completion of that course of study, a Program participant who received a degree in allopathic or osteopathic medicine must enter approved graduate training and a Program participant who received a degree in a health profession other than allopathic or osteopathic medicine may enter approved graduate training. Once a Program participant enters approved graduate training, he or she must also meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section. If a Program participant who received a degree in a health profession other than allopathic or osteopathic medicine does not enter approved graduate training; service, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, must commence as soon as possible upon the Program participant's completion of the course of study leading to his or her health professions degree.

(b) A Program participant whose eligibility for the Loan Repayment Program is based on ยง 62.24(a)(1)(ii) of this subpart must: (1) Continue in his or her approved graduate training program at an acceptable level of academic standing; (2) provide the Secretary with annual documentation of continued participation in that approved graduate training program at an acceptable level of academic standing; (3) successfully complete that approved graduate training program; and (4) commence service, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, as soon as possible upon completion of approved graduate training.

(c) A Program participant whose eligibility for the Loan Repayment Program is based on ยง 62.24(a)(1)(iii) of this subpart must commence service, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, as soon as possible after the effective date of the Loan Repayment Program Contract.

(d) If a Program participant fails to complete approved graduate training, the Secretary may, on his or her own initiative or at the Program participant's request, waive, for good cause, the completion requirement. Good cause will be deemed to exist if the Secretary determines that the Program participant has sufficient health professions training to be utilized by and make a substantial contribution to the National Health Service Corps. If waiver of the completion requirement in paragraph (b) of this section is granted; service, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, must commence as soon as possible after the granting of the waiver.

(e) Except for Program participants who fail to complete their course of study leading to a health professions degree or who fail to complete approved graduate training and do not receive a waiver pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, each program participant must:

(1) Serve in a health manpower shortage area to which he or she is assigned by the Secretary as a member of the National Health Service Corps or serve pursuant to section 338D of the Act in a health manpower shortage area selected by the Secretary and

(2) Accept employment in a full-time clinical practice of the Program participant's profession, as

(i) A commissioned officer in the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service,

(ii) A civilian member of the National Health Service Corps who is an employee of the United States,

(iii) A member of the National Health Service Corps who is not an employee of the United States, or

(iv) A private practitioner who is providing obligated service under the provisions of section 338D of the Act.

(f) The minimum length of obligated service is two years, or such longer period as the Program participant may agree to. The maximum length of obligated service is four years. If a Program participant agrees to an original contract of two or three years, such contract may be extended, subject to the availability of appropriated funding, for one year or two years (up to the four-year maximum). A one-year extension will not reactivate the statutory minimum requirement of two years of service.
