
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Survey Forms and Procedures
###### ยง 488.110 Procedural guidelines.
####### Task 1,Entrance Conference.

(c)-Perform these activities during the entrance conference in every certification and recertification survey:

- Introduce all members of the team to the facility staff, if possible, even though the whole team may not be present for the entire entrance conference. (All surveyors wear identification tags.)

- Explain the SNF/ICF survey process as resident centered in focus, and outline the basic steps.

- Ask the facility for a list showing names of residents by room number with each of the following care needs/treatments identified for each resident to whom they apply:

Use this list for selecting the resident sample.

- Ask the facility to complete page 2 of Form CMS-519 (Resident Census) as soon as possible, so that the information can further orient you to the facility's population. In a survey of a SNF with a distinct part ICF, you may collect two sets of census data. However, consolidate the information when submitting it to the regional office. You may modify the Resident Census Form to include the numbers of licensed and certified beds, if necessary.

- Ask the facility to post signs on readily viewed areas (at least one on each floor) announcing that State surveyors are in the facility performing an "inspection," and are available to meet with residents in private. Also indicate the name and telephone number of the State agency. Hand-printed signs with legible, large letters are acceptable.

- If the facility has a Resident Council, make mutually agreeable arrangements to meet privately with the president and officers and other individuals they might invite.

- Inform the facility that interviews with residents and Resident Councils are conducted privately, unless they independently request otherwise, in order to enhance the development of rapport as well as to allay any resident anxiety. Tell the facility that information is gathered from interviews, the tour, observations, discussions, record review, and facility officials. Point out that the facility will be given an opportunity to respond to all findings.
