
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Survey and Certification of Long-Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 488.303 State plan requirement.

(a) A State plan must provide that the requirements of this subpart and subpart F of this part are met, to the extent that those requirements apply to the Medicaid program.

(b) A State may establish a program to reward, through public recognition, incentive payments, or both, nursing facilities that provide the highest quality care to Medicaid residents. For purposes of section 1903(a)(7) of the Social Security Act, proper expenses incurred by a State in carrying out such a program are considered to be expenses necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the State plan.

(c) A State must conduct periodic educational programs for the staff and residents (and their representatives) of NFs in order to present current regulations, procedures, and policies under this subpart and subpart F of this part.

(d) Required remedies for a non-State operated NF. A State must establish, in addition to termination of the provider agreement, the following remedies or an approved alternative to the following remedies for imposition against a non-State operated NF:

(1) Temporary management.

(2) Denial of payment for new admissions.

(3) Civil money penalties.

(4) Transfer of residents.

(5) Closure of the facility and transfer of residents.

(6) State monitoring.

(e) Optional remedies for a non-State operated NF. A State may establish the following remedies for imposition against a non-State operated NF:

(1) Directed plan of correction.

(2) Directed in-service training.

(3) Alternative or additional State remedies.

(f) Alternative or additional State remedies. If a State uses remedies that are in addition to those specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, or alternative to those specified in paragraph (d) of this section (other than termination of participation), it must-

(1) Specify those remedies in the State plan; and

(2) Demonstrate to CMS's satisfaction that those alternative remedies are as effective in deterring noncompliance and correcting deficiencies as the remedies listed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
