
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Survey and Certification of Long-Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 488.314 Survey teams.
####### Team composition.

(a)(1) Surveys under sections 1819(g)(2) and 1919(g)(2) of the Social Security Act must be conducted by an interdisciplinary team of professionals, which must include a registered nurse.

(2) Examples of professionals include, but are not limited to, physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, physical, speech, or occupational therapists, registered professional nurses, dieticians, sanitarians, engineers, licensed practical nurses, or social workers.

(3) The State determines what constitutes a professional, subject to CMS approval.

(4) Any of the following circumstances disqualifies a surveyor for surveying a particular facility:

(i) The surveyor currently works, or, within the past two years, has worked as an employee, as employment agency staff at the facility, or as an officer, consultant, or agent for the facility to be surveyed.

(ii) The surveyor has any financial interest or any ownership interest in the facility.

(iii) The surveyor has an immediate family member who has a relationship with a facility described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The surveyor has an immediate family member who is a resident in the facility to be surveyed. For purposes of this section, an immediate family member is defined at ยง 488.301 of this part.
