
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Survey and Certification of Long-Term Care Facilities
###### ยง 488.330 Certification of compliance or noncompliance.
####### General rules,Responsibility for certification.

(a)-(1)(i) The State survey agency surveys all facilities for compliance or noncompliance with requirements for long term care facilities. The survey by the State survey agency may be followed by a Federal validation survey.

(A) The State certifies the compliance or noncompliance of non-State operated NFs. Regardless of the State entity doing the certification, it is final, except in the case of a complaint or validation survey conducted by CMS, or CMS review of the State's findings.

(B) CMS certifies the compliance or noncompliance of all State-operated facilities.

(C) The State survey agency certifies the compliance or noncompliance of a non-State operated SNF, subject to the approval of CMS.

(D) The State survey agency certifies compliance or noncompliance for a dually participating SNF/NF. In the case of a disagreement between CMS and the State survey agency, a finding of noncompliance takes precedence over that of compliance.

(ii) In the case of a validation survey, the Secretary's determination as to the facility's noncompliance is binding, and takes precedence over a certification of compliance resulting from the State survey.
