
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Enforcement of Compliance for Long-Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.431 Civil money penalties imposed by CMS and independent informal dispute resolution: for SNFS, dually-participating SNF/NFs, and NF-only facilities.
####### Opportunity for independent review.

(a)CMS retains ultimate authority for the survey findings and imposition of civil money penalties, but provides an opportunity for independent informal dispute resolution within 30 days of notice of imposition of a civil money penalty that will be placed in escrow in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. An independent informal dispute resolution will-

(1) Be completed within 60 days of facility's request if an independent informal dispute resolution is timely requested by the facility.

(2) Generate a written record prior to the collection of the penalty.

(3) Include notification to an involved resident or resident representative, as well as the State's long term care ombudsman, to provide opportunity for written comment.

(4) Be approved by CMS and conducted by the State under section 1864 of the Act, or by an entity approved by the State and CMS, or by CMS or its agent in the case of surveys conducted only by federal surveyors where the State independent dispute resolution process is not used, and which has no conflict of interest, such as:

(i) A component of an umbrella State agency provided that the component is organizationally separate from the State survey agency.

(ii) An independent entity with a specific understanding of Medicare and Medicaid program requirements selected by the State and approved by CMS.

(5) Not include the survey findings that have already been the subject of an informal dispute resolution under ยง 488.331 for the particular deficiency citations at issue in the independent process under ยง 488.431, unless the informal dispute resolution under ยง 488.331 was completed prior to the imposition of the civil money penalty.
