
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Enforcement of Compliance for Long-Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies
###### § 488.433 Civil money penalties: Uses and approval of civil money penalties imposed by CMS.

(a) Ten percent of the collected civil money penalty funds that are required to be held in escrow pursuant to § 488.431 and that remain after a final administrative decision will be deposited with the Department of the Treasury in accordance with § 488.442(f). The remaining ninety percent of the collected civil money penalty funds that are required to be held in escrow pursuant to § 488.431 and that remain after a final administrative decision must be used entirely for activities that protect or improve the quality of care or quality of life for residents consistent with paragraph (b) of this section and may not be used for survey and certification operations or State expenses, except that reasonable expenses necessary to administer, monitor, or evaluate the effectiveness of projects utilizing civil money penalty funds may be permitted.

(b) All activities and plans for utilizing civil money penalty funds, including any expense used to administer grants utilizing civil money penalty funds, must be approved in advance by CMS and may include, but are not limited to:

(1) Support and protection of residents of a facility that closes (voluntarily or involuntarily).

(2) Time-limited expenses incurred in the process of relocating residents to home and community-based settings or another facility when a facility is closed (voluntarily or involuntarily) or downsized pursuant to an agreement with the State Medicaid agency.

(3) Projects that support resident and family councils and other consumer involvement in assuring quality care in facilities.

(4) Facility improvement initiatives, such as joint training of facility staff and surveyors or technical assistance for facilities implementing quality assurance and performance improvement programs.

(5) Development and maintenance of temporary management or receivership capability such as but not limited to, recruitment, training, retention or other system infrastructure expenses. However, as specified in § 488.415(c), a temporary manager's salary must be paid by the facility. In rare situations, if the facility is closing, CMS plans to stop or suspend continued payments to the facility under § 489.55 of this chapter during the temporary manager's duty period, and CMS determines that extraordinary action is necessary to protect the residents until relocation efforts are successful, civil money penalty funds may be used to pay the manager's salary.

(c) At a minimum, proposed activities submitted to CMS for prior approval must include a description of the intended outcomes, deliverables, and sustainability; and a description of the methods by which the activity results will be assessed, including specific measures.

(d) Civil money penalty funds may not be used for activities that have been disapproved by CMS.

(e) The State must maintain an acceptable plan, approved by CMS, for the effective use of civil money funds, including a description of methods by which the State will:

(1) Solicit, accept, monitor, and track projects utilizing civil money penalty funds including any funds used for state administration.

(2) Make information about the use of civil money penalty funds publicly available, including about the dollar amount awarded for approved projects, the grantee or contract recipients, the results of projects, and other key information.

(3) Ensure that:

(i) A core amount of civil money penalty funds will be held in reserve for emergencies, such as relocation of residents pursuant to an involuntary termination from Medicare and Medicaid.

(ii) A reasonable amount of funds, beyond those held in reserve under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, will be awarded or contracted each year for the purposes specified in this section.

(f) If CMS finds that a State has not spent civil money penalty funds in accordance with this section, or fails to make use of funds to benefit the quality of care or life of residents, or fails to maintain an acceptable plan for the use of funds that is approved by CMS, then CMS may withhold future disbursements of civil money penalty funds to the State until the State has submitted an acceptable plan to comply with this section.
