
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 62 - NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS SCHOLARSHIP AND LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Special Repayment Program
###### ยง 62.74 How much credit will a Program participant receive for monetary repayments made, or for approved service performed, before beginning service under the Special Repayment Program?

(a) Prior approved service performed by a Program participant will be credited to the Program participant for the purpose of calculating the Program participant's remaining service obligation under this Program. Thus, the Program participant's remaining service obligation will be calculated by subtracting the number of days of the Program participant's prior approved service from the number of days of the Program participant's original service obligation under the PH/NHSC Scholarship Training Program and/or the Scholarship Program. If a Program participant has made monetary payments, his or her remaining service obligation will be reduced by converting the monetary payments into days of service credit as set forth in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, whichever is applicable.

(b) Program participants who elect to serve pursuant to section 204(b) and section 204(c)(2) of Pub. L. 100-177, will not receive a refund of any amounts previously paid but will receive service credit for those payments as follows:

(1) The number of days of service credit will be calculated by dividing the total amount paid by the Program participant prior to the Program participant's service start date by the total debt as of the service start date and multiplying the result of that division by the number of days of the participant's remaining service obligation (as determined by the formula set forth in the second sentence of paragraph (a) of this section).

(2) If the Program participant defaults on a contract under this Program, prior monetary payments will not be credited to service but will be applied to the monetary debt owed by the Program participant.

(c) Program participants who elect to serve under section 204(c)(1) of Pub. L. 100-177 must pay an amount equal to the scholarship amount. Any amounts paid by the Program participant prior to or after entry into the Program, in accordance with ยง 62.76 of this subpart, will be used to reduce the Program participant's financial obligation incurred under section 204(c)(1) of Pub. L. 100-177. In some cases, the amounts paid before or after entry into the Program will exceed the scholarship amount. These payments in excess of the scholarship amount will be converted into days of service credit under the formula set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If a Program participant defaults on a contract under this option, the monies paid in excess of the scholarship amount will not be credited to service but will be credited toward the monetary debt owed by the Program participant under section 338E(b) of the Act or section 225(f)(1) of the Act, as in effect on September 30, 1977. The scholarship amount paid upon entering this option will be forfeited.
