
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Enforcement of Compliance for Long-Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.440 Civil money penalties: Effective date and duration of penalty.
####### Accrual of penalties when there is no immediate jeopardy.

(f)(1) In the case of noncompliance that does not pose immediate jeopardy, the daily accrual of per day civil money penalties is imposed for the days of noncompliance prior to the notice specified in ยง 488.434 and an additional period of no longer than 6 months following the last day of the survey.

(2) After the period specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if the facility has not achieved substantial compliance, CMS terminates the provider agreement and the State may terminate the provider agreement.

(g)(1) In a case when per day civil money penalties are imposed, when a facility has deficiencies that pose immediate jeopardy, CMS does or the State must terminate the provider agreement within 23 calendar days after the last day of the survey if the immediate jeopardy remains.

(2) The accrual of the civil money penalty imposed on a per day basis stops on the day the provider agreement is terminated.

(h)(1) If an on-site revisit is necessary to confirm substantial compliance and the provider can supply documentation acceptable to CMS or the State agency that substantial compliance was achieved on a date preceding the revisit, penalties imposed on a per day basis only accrue until that date of correction for which there is written credible evidence.

(2) If an on-site revisit is not necessary to confirm substantial compliance, penalties imposed on a per day basis only accrue until the date of correction for which CMS or the State receives and accepts written credible evidence.
