
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Enforcement of Compliance for Long-Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies
###### § 488.440 Civil money penalties: Effective date and duration of penalty.

(a)(1) The per day civil money penalty may start accruing as early as the date that the facility was first out of compliance, as determined by CMS or the State.

(2) A civil money penalty for each instance of noncompliance is imposed in a specific amount for that particular deficiency .

(b) The per day civil money penalty is computed and collectible, as specified in §§ 488.431, 488.432, and 488.442 for the number of days of noncompliance until the date the facility achieves substantial compliance, or, if applicable, the date of termination when -

(1) The determination of noncompliance is upheld after a final administrative decision for NFs-only subject to civil money penalties imposed by the state or for civil money penalties imposed by CMS that are not collected and placed into an escrow account;

(2) The facility waives its right to a hearing in accordance with § 488.436; or

(3) The time for requesting a hearing has expired and CMS or the State has not received a hearing request from the facility.

(c)(1) For NFs-only subject to civil money penalties imposed by the State and for civil money penalties imposed by CMS that may not be placed in an escrow account, the entire penalty, whether imposed on a per day or per instance basis, is due and collectible as specified in the notice sent to the provider under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(2) For SNFs, dually-participating SNF/NFs, or NFs subject to civil money penalties imposed by CMS, collection is made in accordance with § 488.431.

(d)(1) When a civil money penalty is imposed on a per day basis and the facility achieves substantial compliance, CMS does or the State must send a separate notice to the facility containing the following information:

(i) The amount of penalty per day.

(ii) The number of days involved.

(iii) The total amount due.

(iv) The due date of the penalty.

(v) The rate of interest assessed on the unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in § 488.442.

(2) When a civil money penalty is imposed for an instance of noncompliance, CMS does or the State must send a separate notice to the facility containing the following information:

(i) The amount of the penalty.

(ii) The total amount due.

(iii) The due date of the penalty.

(iv) The rate of interest assessed on the unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in § 488.442.

(e) In the case of a facility for which the provider agreement has been terminated and on which a civil money penalty was imposed on a per day basis, CMS does or the State must send this penalty information after the-

(1) Final administrative decision is made;

(2) Facility has waived its right to a hearing in accordance with § 488.436; or

(3) Time for requesting a hearing has expired and CMS or the state has not received a hearing request from the facility.
