
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Alternative Sanctions for Home Health Agencies With Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.845 Civil money penalties.
####### Due date for payment of penalty.

(f)A penalty is due and payable 15 days from notice of the final administrative decision.

(1) Payments are due for all civil money penalties within 15 days:

(i) After a final administrative decision when the HHA achieves substantial compliance before the final decision or the effective date of termination before final decision,

(ii) After the time to appeal has expired and the HHA does not appeal or fails to timely appeal the initial determination,

(iii) After CMS receives a written request from the HHA requesting to waive its right to appeal the determinations that led to the imposition of a sanction,

(iv) After substantial compliance is achieved, or

(v) After the effective date of termination.

(2) A request for hearing does not delay the imposition of any penalty; it only potentially delays the collection of the final penalty amount.

(3) If an HHA waives its right to a hearing according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, CMS will apply a 35 percent reduction to the CMP amount when:

(i) The HHA achieved compliance with the conditions of participation before CMS received the written waiver of hearing; or

(ii) The effective date of termination occurs before CMS received the written waiver of hearing.

(4) The period of noncompliance may not extend beyond 6 months from the last day of the survey.

(5) The amount of the penalty, when determined, may be deducted (offset) from any sum then or later owing by CMS or State Medicaid to the HHA.

(6) Interest is assessed and accrues on the unpaid balance of a penalty, beginning on the due date. Interest is computed at the rate specified in ยง 405.378(d) of this chapter.
