
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Alternative Sanctions for Home Health Agencies With Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.845 Civil money penalties.
####### Computation and notice of total penalty amount.

(e)(1) When a civil money penalty is imposed on a per day basis and the HHA achieves compliance with the conditions of participation as determined by a revisit survey, CMS sends a final notice to the HHA containing all of the following information:

(i) The amount of penalty assessed per day.

(ii) The total number of days of noncompliance.

(iii) The total amount due.

(iv) The due date of the penalty.

(v) The rate of interest to be assessed on any unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(2) When a civil money penalty is imposed for per instance of noncompliance, CMS sends a notice to the HHA containing all of the following information:

(i) The amount of the penalty that was assessed.

(ii) The total amount due.

(iii) The due date of the penalty.

(iv) The rate of interest to be assessed on any unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.

(3) In the case of an HHA for which the provider agreement has been involuntarily terminated and for which a civil money penalty was imposed on a per day basis, CMS sends this penalty information after one of the following actions has occurred:

(i) Final administrative decision is made.

(ii) The HHA has waived its right to a hearing in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iii) Time for requesting a hearing has expired and CMS has not received a hearing request from the HHA.
