
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Alternative Sanctions for Home Health Agencies With Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.845 Civil money penalties.
####### Penalties collected by CMS,Disbursement of CMPs.

(g)-(1)Civil money penalties and any corresponding interest collected by CMS from Medicare and Medicaid participating HHAs are disbursed in proportion to average dollars spent by Medicare and Medicaid at the national level based on MSIS and HHA PPS data for a three year fiscal period.

(i) Based on expenditures for the FY 2007-2009 period, the initial proportions to be disbursed are 63 percent returned to the U.S. Treasury and 37 percent returned to the State Medicaid agency.

(ii) Beginning one year after the effective date of this section, CMS shall annually update these proportions based on the most recent 3-year fiscal period, prior to the year in which the CMP is imposed, for which CMS determines that the relevant data are essentially complete.

(iii) The portion corresponding to the Medicare payments is returned to the U.S. Department of Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

(iv) The portion corresponding to the Medicaid payments is returned to the State Medicaid agency.

(2) Penalties may not be used for Survey and Certification operations nor as the State's Medicaid non-Federal medical assistance or administrative match.
