
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Accreditation of Home Infusion Therapy Suppliers
###### Approval and Oversight of Home Infusion Therapy Supplier Accrediting Organizations
####### ยง 488.1010 Application and reapplication procedures for national home infusion therapy accrediting organizations.
######## Information submitted with application.

(a)A national home infusion therapy accrediting organization applying to CMS for approval or re-approval of a designated home infusion therapy accreditation program must furnish CMS with information and materials that demonstrate that its home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements meet or exceed the applicable Medicare requirements for accrediting organizations, including the following:

(1) Documentation that demonstrates the organization meets the definition of a national accrediting organization under ยง 488.1005 as it relates to the accreditation program.

(2) The Medicare provider or supplier type for which the organization is requesting approval or reapproval.

(3) Documentation that demonstrates the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's ability to take into account the capacities of rural home infusion therapy suppliers (as required by section 1834(u)(5)(A)(ii) of the Act).

(4) Information that demonstrates the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's knowledge, expertise, and experience in home infusion therapy.

(5) A detailed crosswalk (in table format) that identifies, for each of the applicable Medicare requirements, the exact language of the organization's comparable accreditation requirements and standards.

(6) A detailed description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's survey processes to confirm that a home infusion therapy supplier's processes are comparable to those of Medicare. This description must include all of the following:

(i) The types and frequency of surveys performed, and a rationale for which accreditation requirements will be evaluated via onsite surveys and which will be evaluated via offsite audits, or other strategies for ensuring accredited home infusion therapy suppliers maintain adherence to the home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements, including an explanation of how the accrediting organization will maintain the schedule it proposes.

(ii) Copies of the home infusion therapy accrediting organizations survey and audit forms, guidelines, and instructions to surveyors.

(iii) Documentation demonstrating that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's onsite survey or offsite audit reports identify, for each finding of non-compliance with accreditation standards, the comparable Medicare home infusion therapy accreditation requirements, as applicable.

(iv) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's accreditation survey review process.

(v) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's procedures and timelines for notifying a surveyed or audited home infusion therapy supplier of non-compliance with the home infusion therapy accreditation program's standards.

(vi) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's procedures and timelines for monitoring the home infusion therapy supplier's correction of identified non-compliance with the accreditation program's standards.

(vii) The ability of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization to conduct timely reviews of accreditation applications.

(viii) A statement acknowledging that, as a condition for CMS approval of a national accrediting organization's accreditation program, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to provide CMS with information extracted from each home infusion therapy accreditation onsite survey, offsite audit or other evaluation strategies as part of its data submissions required under paragraph (a)(19) of this section, and, upon request from CMS, a copy of the most recent accreditation onsite survey, offsite audit, or other evaluation strategy together with any other information related to the survey as CMS may require (including corrective action plans).

(ix) A statement acknowledging that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization will provide timely notification to CMS when an accreditation survey or complaint investigation identifies an immediate jeopardy as that term is defined at ยง 488.1005. Using the format specified by CMS, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must notify CMS within 2 business days from the date the accrediting organization identifies the immediate jeopardy.

(7) Procedures to ensure that-

(i) Unannounced onsite surveys, as appropriate, will be conducted periodically, including procedures that protect against unannounced surveys becoming known to the provider or supplier in advance of the visit; or

(ii) Offsite survey audits are performed to evaluate the quality of services provided which may be followed up with periodic onsite visits.

(8) The criteria for determining the size and composition of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's survey, audit and other evaluation strategy teams for individual supplier onsite surveys. The home infusion therapy accrediting organization's criteria should include, but not be limited to the following information:

(i) The expected number of individual home infusion therapy supplier locations to be surveyed using an onsite survey.

(ii) The number of home infusion therapy suppliers to be surveyed using off-site audits.

(iii) A description of other types of home infusion therapy accreditation review activities to be used.

(iv) The reasons for each type of survey (that is, initial accreditation survey, reaccreditation survey, and complaint survey).

(9) The overall adequacy of the number of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's surveyors, auditors, and other staff available to perform survey related activities, including how the organization will increase the size of the survey, audit, and other evaluation staff to match growth in the number of accredited facilities or programs while maintaining re-accreditation intervals for existing accredited facilities or programs.

(10) Detailed information about the individuals who perform onsite surveys, offsite audits or other strategies for ensuring accredited home infusion therapy suppliers maintain adherence to the home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements, including all of the following information:

(i) The number and types of professional and technical staff available for conducting onsite surveys, offsite audits, or other strategies for ensuring accredited home infusion therapy suppliers maintain adherence to the home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements.

(ii) The education, employment, and experience requirements surveyors and auditors must meet.

(iii) The content and length of the orientation program.

(11) The content, frequency and types of in-service training provided to survey and audit personnel.

(12) The evaluation systems used to monitor the performance of individual surveyors, auditors and survey teams.

(13) The home infusion therapy accrediting organization's policies and procedures to avoid conflicts of interest, including the appearance of conflicts of interest, involving individuals who conduct surveys, audits or participate in accreditation decisions.

(14) The policies and procedures used when a home infusion therapy supplier has a dispute regarding survey or audit findings, or an adverse decision.

(15) Procedures for the home infusion therapy supplier to use to notify the home infusion therapy accrediting organization when the accredited home infusion therapy supplier does the either of the following:

(i) Removes or ceases furnishing services for which they are accredited.

(ii) Adds services for which they are not accredited.

(16) The home infusion therapy accrediting organization's procedures for responding to, and investigating complaints against accredited facilities, including policies and procedures regarding referrals, when applicable, to appropriate licensing bodies, ombudsmen offices, and CMS.

(17) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's accreditation status decision-making process. The home infusion therapy accrediting organization must furnish the following:

(i) Its process for addressing deficiencies identified with accreditation program requirements, and the procedures used to monitor the correction of deficiencies identified during an accreditation survey and audit process.

(ii) A description of all types and categories of accreditation decisions associated with the program, including the duration of each of the organization's accreditation decisions.

(iii) Its policies and procedures for the granting, withholding or removal of accreditation status for facilities that fail to meet the accrediting organization's standards or requirements, assignment of less than full accreditation status or other actions taken by the organization in response to non-compliance with its standards and requirements.

(iv) A statement acknowledging that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to notify CMS (in a manner CMS specifies) of any decision to revoke, terminate, or revise the accreditation status of a home infusion therapy supplier, within 3 business days from the date the organization takes an action.

(18) A list of all currently accredited home infusion therapy suppliers, the type and category of accreditation, currently held by each, and the expiration date for each home infusion therapy supplier's current accreditation.

(19) A schedule of all survey activity (such as onsite surveys, offsite audits and other types if survey strategies) expected to be conducted by the organization during the 6-month period following submission of an initial or renewal application.

(20) A written presentation that demonstrates the organization's ability to furnish CMS with electronic data.

(21) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's data management and analysis system with respect to its surveys and accreditation decisions, including all of the following:

(i) A detailed description of how the home infusion therapy accrediting organization uses its data to assure the compliance of its home infusion therapy accreditation program with the Medicare home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements.

(ii) A written statement acknowledging that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to submit timely, accurate, and complete data that CMS has determined is both necessary to evaluate the accrediting organization's performance and is not unduly burdensome for the accrediting organization to submit.

(A) The organization must submit necessary data according to the instructions and timeframes CMS specifies.

(B) Data to be submitted includes the following:
