
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Accreditation of Home Infusion Therapy Suppliers
###### Approval and Oversight of Home Infusion Therapy Supplier Accrediting Organizations
####### ยง 488.1030 Ongoing review of home infusion therapy accrediting organizations.
######## Review of revised home infusion therapy accreditation standards submitted to CMS by an accrediting organization.

(c)When a home infusion therapy accrediting organization proposes to adopt new or revised accreditation standards, requirements or changes in its survey process, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must do the following:

(1) Provide CMS with written notice of any proposed changes in home infusion therapy accreditation standards, requirements or survey process at least 60 days prior to the proposed implementation date of the proposed changes.

(2) Not implement any of the proposed changes before receiving CMS's approval, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(3) Provide written notice to CMS that includes all of the following:

(i) A detailed description of the changes that are to be made to the organization's home infusion therapy accreditation standards, requirements and survey processes.

(ii) A detailed crosswalk (in table format) that states the exact language of the organization's revised accreditation requirements and the applicable Medicare requirements for each.

(4) CMS must provide a written notice to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization which states whether the home infusion therapy accreditation program, including the proposed revisions, continues or does not continue to meet or exceed all applicable Medicare home infusion therapy requirements within 60 days of receipt of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's proposed changes. If CMS has made a finding that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's home infusion therapy accreditation program, accreditation requirements and survey processes, including the proposed revisions does not continue to meet or exceed all applicable Medicare home infusion therapy requirements. CMS must state the reasons for these findings.

(5) If, no later than 60 calendar days after receipt of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's proposed changes, CMS does not provide written notice to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization that the home infusion therapy accreditation program, including the proposed revisions, continues or does not continue to meet or exceed all applicable Medicare home infusion therapy requirements, then the revised home infusion therapy accreditation program is deemed to meet or exceed all applicable Medicare home infusion therapy requirements and to have continued CMS approval.

(6) If a home infusion therapy accrediting organization implements changes that have neither been determined nor deemed by CMS to be comparable to the applicable Medicare home infusion therapy requirements, CMS may open a home infusion therapy accreditation program review in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
