
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Accreditation of Home Infusion Therapy Suppliers
###### Approval and Oversight of Home Infusion Therapy Supplier Accrediting Organizations
####### ยง 488.1030 Ongoing review of home infusion therapy accrediting organizations.
######## CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program review.

(d)If a comparability, performance, or standards review reveals evidence of substantial non-compliance of a home infusion therapy accrediting organization's CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program with the requirements of this subpart, CMS may initiate a home infusion therapy accreditation program review.

(1) If a home infusion therapy accreditation program review is initiated, CMS will provide written notice to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization indicating that its CMS-approved accreditation program approval may be in jeopardy and that a home infusion therapy accreditation program review is being initiated. The notice will provide all of the following information:

(i) A statement of the instances, rates or patterns of non-compliance identified, as well as other related information, if applicable.

(ii) A description of the process to be followed during the review, including a description of the opportunities for the home infusion therapy accrediting organization to offer factual information related to CMS' findings.

(iii) A description of the possible actions that may be imposed by CMS based on the findings of the home infusion therapy accreditation program review.

(iv) The actions the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must take to address the identified deficiencies

(v) The length of the accreditation program review probation period, which will include monitoring of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's performance and implementation of the corrective action plan. The probation period is not to exceed 180 calendar days from the date that CMS approves the AOs corrective action plan.

(2) CMS will review and approve the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's plan of correction for acceptability within 30 days after receipt.

(3) CMS will monitor the AO's performance and implementation of the plan of correction during the probation period which is not to exceed 180 days from the date of approval of the plan of correction.

(4) If CMS determines, as a result of the home infusion therapy accreditation program review or a review of an application for renewal of the accrediting organizations existing CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program, that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization has failed to meet any of the requirements of this subpart, CMS may place the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program on an additional probation period of up to 180 calendar days subsequent to the 180-day probation period described in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section to implement additional corrective actions or demonstrate sustained compliance, not to exceed the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's current term of approval. In the case of a renewal application where CMS has already placed the home infusion therapy accreditation program on probation, CMS indicates that any approval of the application is conditional while the program is placed on probation.

(i) Within 60 calendar days after the end of any probationary period, CMS issues a written determination to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization as to whether or not its CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program continues to meet the requirements of this subpart, including the reasons for the determination.

(ii) If CMS determines that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization does not meet the requirements, CMS may withdraw approval of the CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program. The notice of determination provided to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization includes notice of the removal of approval, reason for the removal, including the effective date determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) CMS publishes in thea notice of its decision to withdraw approval of a CMS-approved accreditation program, including the reasons for the withdrawal, effective 60 calendar days after the date of publication of the notice.
