
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Accreditation of Home Infusion Therapy Suppliers
###### Approval and Oversight of Home Infusion Therapy Supplier Accrediting Organizations
####### ยง 488.1035 Ongoing responsibilities of a CMS-approved home infusion therapy accrediting organization.

A home infusion therapy accreditation organization approved by CMS must carry out the following activities on an ongoing basis:

(a) Provide CMS with all of the following in written format (either electronic or hard copy):

(1) Copies of all home infusion therapy accreditation surveys, together with any survey-related information that CMS may require (including corrective action plans and summaries of findings with respect to unmet CMS requirements).

(2) Notice of all accreditation decisions.

(3) Notice of all complaints related to providers or suppliers.

(4) Information about all home infusion therapy accredited suppliers against which the home infusion therapy accreditation organization has taken remedial or adverse action, including revocation, withdrawal, or revision of the providers or suppliers accreditation.

(5) The home infusion therapy accrediting organization must provide, on an annual basis, summary data specified by CMS that relate to the past year's accreditation activities and trends.

(6) Notice of any proposed changes in the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's accreditation standards or requirements or survey process. If the home infusion therapy accrediting organization implements the changes before or without CMS' approval, CMS may withdraw its approval of the accrediting organization.

(b) Within 30 calendar days after a change in CMS requirements, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must submit an acknowledgment of receipt of CMS' notification to CMS.

(c) The home infusion therapy accrediting organization must permit its surveyors to serve as witnesses if CMS takes an adverse action based on accreditation findings.

(d) Within 2 business days of identifying a deficiency of an accredited home infusion therapy supplier that poses immediate jeopardy to a beneficiary or to the general public, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must provide CMS with written notice of the deficiency and any adverse action implemented by the accrediting organization.

(e) Within 10 calendar days after CMS' notice to a CMS-approved home infusion therapy accrediting organization that CMS intends to withdraw approval of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must provide written notice of the withdrawal to all of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's accredited suppliers.
