
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart L - Accreditation of Home Infusion Therapy Suppliers
###### Approval and Oversight of Home Infusion Therapy Supplier Accrediting Organizations
####### ยง 488.1050 Reconsideration.
######## Hearing requirements and rules.

(d)(1) The reconsideration hearing is a public hearing open to all of the following:

(i) Authorized representatives and staff from CMS, including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) Technical advisors (individuals with knowledge of the facts of the case or presenting interpretation of the facts).

(B) Legal counsel.

(C) Non-technical witnesses with personal knowledge of the facts of the case.

(ii) Representatives from the accrediting organization requesting the reconsideration including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) Authorized representatives and staff from the accrediting organization.

(B) Technical advisors (individuals with knowledge of the facts of the case or presenting interpretation of the facts).

(C) Legal counsel.

(D) Non-technical witnesses, such as patients and family members that have personal knowledge of the facts of the case.

(2) The hearing is conducted by the hearing officer who receives testimony and documents related to the proposed action.

(3) Testimony and other evidence may be accepted by the hearing officer even though such evidence may be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(4) The hearing officer does not have the authority to compel by subpoena the production of witnesses, papers, or other evidence.

(5) Within 45 calendar days after the close of the hearing, the hearing officer will present the findings and recommendations to the accrediting organization that requested the reconsideration.

(6) The written report of the hearing officer will include separate numbered findings of fact and the legal conclusions of the hearing officer.

(7) The hearing officer's decision is final.
