
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart M - Survey and Certification of Hospice Programs
###### ยง 488.1115 Surveyor qualifications and prohibition of conflicts of interest.
####### Disqualifications.

(b)Surveyor(s) must disclose actual or perceived conflicts of interest prior to participating in a hospice program survey and be provided the opportunity to recuse themselves as necessary. Any of the following circumstances disqualifies a surveyor from surveying a particular hospice program:

(1) The surveyor currently serves, or, within the previous 2 years has served, with the hospice program to be surveyed as one of the following:

(i) A direct employee.

(ii) An employment agency staff at the hospice program.

(iii) An officer, consultant, or agent for the hospice program to be surveyed concerning compliance with conditions of participation specified in or in accordance with sections 1861(dd) of the Act.

(2) The surveyor has a financial interest or an ownership interest in the hospice program to be surveyed.

(3) The surveyor has an immediate family member, as defined at ยง 411.351 of this chapter, who has a financial interest or an ownership interest with the hospice program to be surveyed.

(4) The surveyor has an immediate family member, as defined at ยง 411.351 of this chapter, who is a patient of the hospice program to be surveyed.
