
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart N - Enforcement Remedies for Hospice Programs With Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.1245 Civil money penalties.
####### Due date for payment of penalty.

(f)A penalty is due and payable 15 calendar days from notice of the final administrative decision.

(1) Payments are due for all civil money penalties within 15 calendar days of any of the following:

(i) After a final administrative decision when the hospice program achieves substantial compliance before the final decision or the effective date of termination occurs before the final decision.

(ii) After the time to appeal has expired and the hospice program does not appeal or fails to timely appeal the initial determination.

(iii) After CMS receives a written request from the hospice program requesting to waive its right to appeal the determinations that led to the imposition of a remedy.

(iv) After the effective date of termination.

(2) A request for hearing does not delay the imposition of any penalty; it only potentially delays the collection of the final penalty amount.

(3) If a hospice program waives its right to a hearing according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, CMS applies a 35 percent reduction to the CMP amount for any of the following:

(i) The hospice program achieved compliance with the conditions of participation before CMS received the written waiver of hearing.

(ii) The effective date of termination occurs before CMS received the written waiver of hearing.

(4) The period of noncompliance may not extend beyond 6 months from the last day of the survey.

(5) The amount of the penalty, when determined, may be deducted (offset) from any sum then or later owing by CMS or State Medicaid to the hospice program.

(6) Interest is assessed and accrues on the unpaid balance of a penalty, beginning on the due date. Interest is computed at the rate specified in ยง 405.378(d) of this chapter.
