
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 488 - SURVEY, CERTIFICATION, AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart N - Enforcement Remedies for Hospice Programs With Deficiencies
###### ยง 488.1245 Civil money penalties.
####### Computation and notice of total penalty amount.

(e)(1) When a civil money penalty is imposed on a per day basis and the hospice program achieves compliance with the conditions of participation as determined by a revisit survey, once the administrative determination is final, CMS sends a final notice to the hospice program containing of the following information:

(i) The amount of penalty assessed per day.

(ii) The total number of days of noncompliance.

(iii) The total amount due.

(iv) The due date of the penalty.

(v) The rate of interest to be assessed on any unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.

(2) When a civil money penalty is imposed per instance of noncompliance, once the administrative determination is final, CMS sends a final notice to the hospice program containing all of the following information:

(i) The amount of the penalty that was assessed.

(ii) The total amount due.

(iii) The due date of the penalty.

(iv) The rate of interest to be assessed on any unpaid balance beginning on the due date, as provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.

(3) In the case of a hospice program for which the provider agreement has been involuntarily terminated, CMS sends the final notice after one of the following actions has occurred:

(i) The administrative determination is final.

(ii) The hospice program has waived its right to a hearing in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iii) Time for requesting a hearing has expired and the hospice program has not requested a hearing.
