
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 489 - PROVIDER AGREEMENTS AND SUPPLIER APPROVAL
##### Subpart C - Allowable Charges
###### ยง 489.30 Allowable charges: Deductibles and coinsurance.
####### Part B deductible and coinsurance.

(b)(1) The basic allowable charges are the $75 deductible and 20 percent of the customary (insofar as reasonable) charges in excess of that deductible.

(2) For hospital outpatient services, the allowable deductible charges depend on whether the hospital can determine the beneficiary's deductible status.

(i) If the hospital is unable to determine the deductible status, it may charge the beneficiary its full customary charges up to $75.

(ii) If the beneficiary provides official information as to deductible status, the hospital may charge only the unmet portion of the deductible.

(3) In either of the cases discussed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the hospital is required to file with the intermediary, on a form prescribed by CMS, information as to the services, charges, and amounts collected.

(4) The intermediary must reimburse the beneficiary if reimbursement is authorized and credit the expenses to the beneficiary's deductible if the deductible has not yet been met.

(5) In the case of DME furnished as a home health service under Medicare Part B, the coinsurance is 20 percent of the customary (insofar as reasonable) charge for the services, with the following exception: If the DME is used DME purchased by or on behalf of the beneficiary at a price at least 25 percent less than the reasonable charge for comparable new equipment, no coinsurance is required.
