
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 491 - CERTIFICATION OF CERTAIN HEALTH FACILITIES
##### Subpart A - Rural Health Clinics: Conditions for Certification; and FQHCs Conditions for Coverage
###### ยง 491.9 Provision of services.
####### Patient care policies.

(b)(1) The clinic's or center's health care services are furnished in accordance with appropriate written policies which are consistent with applicable State law.

(2) The policies are developed with the advice of a group of professional personnel that includes one or more physicians and one or more physician assistants or nurse practitioners. At least one member is not a member of the clinic or center staff.

(3) The policies include:

(i) A description of the services the clinic or center furnishes directly and those furnished through agreement or arrangement.

(ii) Guidelines for the medical management of health problems which include the conditions requiring medical consultation and/or patient referral, the maintenance of health care records, and procedures for the periodic review and evaluation of the services furnished by the clinic or center.

(iii) Rules for the storage, handling, and administration of drugs and biologicals.

(4) These policies are reviewed at least biennially by the group of professional personnel required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section and reviewed as necessary by the RHC or FQHC.
