
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 491 - CERTIFICATION OF CERTAIN HEALTH FACILITIES
##### Subpart A - Rural Health Clinics: Conditions for Certification; and FQHCs Conditions for Coverage
###### ยง 491.12 Emergency preparedness.
####### Communication plan.

(c)The RHC or FQHC must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, State, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. The communication plan must include all of the following:

(1) Names and contact information for the following:

(i) Staff.

(ii) Entities providing services under arrangement.

(iii) Patients' physicians.

(iv) Other RHCs/FQHCs.

(v) Volunteers.

(2) Contact information for the following:

(i) Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency preparedness staff.

(ii) Other sources of assistance.

(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the following:

(i) RHC/FQHC's staff.

(ii) Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local emergency management agencies.

(4) A means of providing information about the general condition and location of patients under the facility's care as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(4).

(5) A means of providing information about the RHC/FQHC's needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction or the Incident Command Center, or designee.
