
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 493.17 Test categorization.
####### Process for device/test categorization utilizing the scoring system under ยง 493.17(a).

(c)(1)(i) For new commercial test systems, assays, or examinations, the manufacturer, as part of its 510(k) and PMA application to FDA, will submit supporting data for device/test categorization. FDA will determine the complexity category, notify the manufacturers directly, and will simultaneously inform both CMS and CDC of the device/test category. FDA will consult with CDC concerning test categorization in the following three situations:

(A) When categorizing previously uncategorized new technology;

(B) When FDA determines it to be necessary in cases involving a request for a change in categorization; and

(C) If a manufacturer requests review of a categorization decision by FDA in accordance with 21 CFR 10.75.

(ii) Test categorization will be effective as of the notification to the applicant.

(2) For test systems, assays, or examinations not commercially available, a laboratory or professional group may submit a written request for categorization to PHS. These requests will be forwarded to CDC for evaluation; CDC will determine complexity category and notify the applicant, CMS, and FDA of the categorization decision. In the case of request for a change of category or for previously uncategorized new technology, PHS will receive the request application and forward it to CDC for categorization.

(3) A request for recategorization will be accepted for review if it is based on new information not previously submitted in a request for categorization or recategorization by the same applicant and will not be considered more frequently than once per year.

(4) If a laboratory test system, assay or examination does not appear on the lists of tests in thenotices, it is considered to be a test of high complexity until PHS, upon request, reviews the matter and notifies the applicant of its decision. Test categorization is effective as of the notification to the applicant.

(5) PHS will publish revisions periodically to the list of moderate and high complexity tests in thein a notice with opportunity for comment.
