
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 493.19 Provider-performed microscopy (PPM) procedures.
####### Criteria.

(b)Procedures must meet the following specifications:

(1) The examination must be personally performed by one of the following practitioners:

(i) A physician during the patient's visit on a specimen obtained from his or her own patient or from a patient of a group medical practice of which the physician is a member or an employee.

(ii) A midlevel practitioner, under the supervision of a physician or in independent practice only if authorized by the State, during the patient's visit on a specimen obtained from his or her own patient or from a patient of a clinic, group medical practice, or other health care provider of which the midlevel practitioner is a member or an employee.

(iii) A dentist during the patient's visit on a specimen obtained from his or her own patient or from a patient of a group dental practice of which the dentist is a member or an employee.

(2) The procedure must be categorized as moderately complex.

(3) The primary instrument for performing the test is the microscope, limited to bright-field or phase-contrast microscopy.

(4) The specimen is labile or delay in performing the test could compromise the accuracy of the test result.

(5) Control materials are not available to monitor the entire testing process.

(6) Limited specimen handling or processing is required.
