
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Certificate of Accreditation
###### ยง 493.57 Requirements for a registration certificate.

A registration certificate is required for all laboratories seeking a certificate of accreditation, unless the laboratory holds a valid certificate of compliance issued by HHS.

(a) HHS will issue a registration certificate if the laboratory-

(1) Complies with the requirements of ยง 493.55;

(2) Agrees to notify HHS within 30 days of any changes in ownership, name, location, director, or supervisor (laboratories performing high complexity testing only);

(3) Agrees to treat proficiency testing samples in the same manner as it treats patient specimens; and

(4) Remits the fee for the registration certificate specified in subpart F of this part.

(b)(1) The laboratory must provide HHS with proof of accreditation by an approved accreditation program-

(i) Within 11 months of issuance of the registration certificate; or

(ii) Prior to the expiration of the certificate of compliance.

(2) If such proof of accreditation is not supplied within this timeframe, the laboratory must meet, or continue to meet, the requirements of ยง 493.49.

(c) In accordance with subpart R of this part, HHS will initiate suspension, revocation, or limitation of a laboratory's registration certificate and will deny the laboratory's application for a certificate of accreditation for failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this subpart. In addition, failure to meet the requirements of this subpart will result in suspension or denial of payments under Medicare and Medicaid as specified in subpart R of this part.

(d) A registration certificate is valid for a period of no more than 2 years. However, it may be reissued if the laboratory is subject to subpart C of this part, as specified in ยง 493.57(b)(2) and compliance has not been determined by HHS before the expiration date of the registration certificate.

(e) In the event that the laboratory does not meet the requirements of this subpart, HHS will-

(1) Deny a laboratory's request for certificate of accreditation;

(2) Notify the laboratory if it must meet the requirements for a certificate as defined in subpart C of this part;

(3) Provide the laboratory with a statement of grounds on which the application denial is based;

(4) Offer an opportunity for appeal on the application denial as provided in subpart R of this part. If the laboratory requests a hearing within the time specified by HHS, the laboratory will retain its registration certificate or reissued registration certificate until a decision is made by an administrative law judge as provided in subpart R, unless HHS finds that conditions at the laboratory pose an imminent and serious risk to human health; and

(5) For those laboratories receiving payment from the Medicare or Medicaid program, such payments will be suspended on the effective date specified in the notice to the laboratory of denial of the request even if there has been no appeals decision issued.
