
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart C - Registration Certificate, Certificate for Provider-performed Microscopy Procedures, and Certificate of Compliance
###### § 493.49 Requirements for a certificate of compliance.

A certificate of compliance may include any combination of tests categorized as high complexity or moderate complexity or listed in § 493.15(c) as waived tests. Moderate complexity tests may include those specified as PPM procedures.

(a) HHS will issue a certificate of compliance to a laboratory only if the laboratory-

(1) Meets the requirements of §§ 493.43 and 493.45;

(2) Remits the certificate fee specified in subpart F of this part; and

(3) Meets the applicable requirements of this subpart and subparts H, J, K, M, and Q of this part.

(b) Laboratories issued a certificate of compliance-

(1) Are subject to the notification requirements of § 493.51; and

(2) Must permit announced or unannounced inspections by HHS in accordance with subpart Q of this part-

(i) To determine compliance with the applicable requirements of this part;

(ii) To evaluate complaints;

(iii) When HHS has substantive reason to believe that tests are being performed, or the laboratory is being operated in a manner that constitutes an imminent and serious risk to human health; and

(iv) To collect information regarding the appropriateness of tests listed in § 493.15 or tests categorized as moderate complexity (including the subcategory) or high complexity.

(c) Failure to comply with the requirements of this subpart will result in-

(1) Suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory's certificate of compliance in accordance with subpart R of this part; and

(2) Suspension or denial of payments under Medicare and Medicaid in accordance with subpart R of this part.

(d) A certificate of compliance issued under this subpart is valid for no more than 2 years.

(e) In the event of a noncompliance determination resulting in an HHS action to revoke, suspend or limit the laboratory's certificate of compliance, HHS will-

(1) Provide the laboratory with a statement of grounds on which the determination of noncompliance is based; and

(2) Offer an opportunity for appeal as provided in subpart R of this part. If the laboratory requests a hearing within 60 days of the notice of sanction, it retains its certificate of compliance or reissued certificate of compliance until a decision is made by an administrative law judge (ALJ) as provided in subpart R of this part, except when HHS finds that conditions at the laboratory pose an imminent and serious risk to human health or when the criteria at § 493.1840(a) (4) and (5) are met.

(f) For laboratories receiving payment from the Medicare or Medicaid program, such payments will be suspended on the effective date specified in the notice to the laboratory of a noncompliance determination even if there has been no appeals decision issued.

(g) A laboratory seeking to renew its certificate of compliance must-

(1) Complete and return the renewal application to HHS 9 to 12 months prior to the expiration of the certificate of compliance; and

(2) Meet the requirements of § 493.43 and paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of this section.

(h) If HHS determines that the application for the renewal of a certificate of compliance must be denied or limited, HHS will notify the laboratory in writing of the-

(1) Basis for denial of the application; and

(2) Opportunity for appeal as provided in subpart R of this part.

(i) If the laboratory requests a hearing within the time period specified by HHS, the laboratory retains its certificate of compliance or reissued certificate of compliance until a decision is made by an ALJ as provided in subpart R, except when HHS finds that conditions at the laboratory pose an imminent and serious risk to human health.

(j) For laboratories receiving payment from the Medicare or Medicaid program, such payments will be suspended on the effective date specified in the notice to the laboratory of nonrenewal of the certificate of compliance even if there has been no appeals decision issued.
