
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Accreditation by a Private, Nonprofit Accreditation Organization or Exemption Under an Approved State Laboratory Program
###### § 493.557 Additional submission requirements.
####### Specific requirements for accreditation organizations.

(a)In addition to the information specified in §§ 493.553 and 493.555, as part of the approval and review process, an accreditation organization applying or reapplying for deeming authority must also provide the following:

(1) The specialty or subspecialty areas for which the organization is requesting deeming authority and its mechanism for monitoring compliance with all requirements equivalent to condition-level requirements within the scope of the specialty or subspecialty areas.

(2) A description of the organization's data management and analysis system with respect to its inspection and accreditation decisions, including the kinds of routine reports and tables generated by the systems.

(3) Detailed information concerning the inspection process, including, but not limited to the following:

(i) The size and composition of individual accreditation inspection teams.

(ii) Qualifications, education, and experience requirements that inspectors must meet.

(iii) The content and frequency of training provided to inspection personnel, including the ability of the organization to provide continuing education and training to inspectors.

(4) Procedures for removal or withdrawal of accreditation status for laboratories that fail to meet the organization's standards.

(5) A proposed agreement between CMS and the accreditation organization with respect to the notification requirements specified in § 493.555(c).

(6) Procedures for monitoring laboratories found to be out of compliance with its requirements. (These monitoring procedures must be used only when the accreditation organization identifies noncompliance. If noncompliance is identified through validation inspections, CMS or a CMS agent monitors corrections, as authorized at § 493.565(d)).

(7) A demonstration of its ability to provide CMS with electronic data and reports in compatible code, including the crosswalk specified in § 493.553(a)(1), that are necessary for effective validation and assessment of the organization's inspection process.

(8) A demonstration of its ability to provide CMS with electronic data, in compatible code, related to the adverse actions resulting from PT results constituting unsuccessful participation in PT programs as well as data related to the PT failures, within 30 days of the initiation of adverse action.

(9) A demonstration of its ability to provide CMS with electronic data, in compatible code, for all accredited laboratories, including the area of specialty or subspecialty.

(10) Information defining the adequacy of numbers of staff and other resources.

(11) Information defining the organization's ability to provide adequate funding for performing required inspections.

(12) Any facility-specific data, upon request by CMS, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) PT results that constitute unsuccessful participation in a CMS-approved PT program.

(ii) Notification of the adverse actions or corrective actions imposed by the accreditation organization as a result of unsuccessful PT participation.

(13) An agreement to provide written notification to CMS at least 30 days in advance of the effective date of any proposed change in its requirements.

(14) An agreement to disclose any laboratory's PT results upon reasonable request by any person.
