
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Accreditation by a Private, Nonprofit Accreditation Organization or Exemption Under an Approved State Laboratory Program
###### ยง 493.551 General requirements for laboratories.
####### Meeting CLIA requirements by accreditation.

(b)A laboratory seeking to meet CLIA requirements through accreditation by an approved accreditation organization must do the following:

(1) Obtain a certificate of accreditation as required in subpart D of this part.

(2) Pay the applicable fees as required in subpart F of this part.

(3) Meet the proficiency testing (PT) requirements in subpart H of this part.

(4) Authorize its PT organization to furnish to its accreditation organization the results of the laboratory's participation in an approved PT program for the purpose of monitoring the laboratory's PT and for making the annual PT results, along with explanatory information required to interpret the PT results, available on a reasonable basis, upon request of any person. A laboratory that refuses to authorize release of its PT results is no longer deemed to meet the condition-level requirements and is subject to a full review by CMS, in accordance with subpart Q of this part, and may be subject to the suspension or revocation of its certificate of accreditation under ยง 493.1840.

(5) Authorize its accreditation organization to release to CMS or a CMS agent the laboratory's PT results that constitute unsuccessful participation in an approved PT program, in accordance with the definition of "unsuccessful participation in an approved PT program," as specified in ยง 493.2 of this part, when the laboratory has failed to achieve successful participation in an approved PT program.

(6) Authorize its accreditation organization to release to CMS a notification of the actions taken by the organization as a result of the unsuccessful participation in a PT program within 30 days of the initiation of the action. Based on this notification, CMS may take an adverse action against a laboratory that fails to participate successfully in an approved PT program.
