
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Accreditation by a Private, Nonprofit Accreditation Organization or Exemption Under an Approved State Laboratory Program
###### ยง 493.553 Approval process (application and reapplication) for accreditation organizations and State licensure programs.
####### Information required.

(a)An accreditation organization that applies or reapplies to CMS for deeming authority, or a State licensure program that applies or reapplies to CMS for exemption from CLIA program requirements of licensed or approved laboratories within the State, must provide the following information:

(1) A detailed comparison of the individual accreditation, or licensure or approval requirements with the comparable condition-level requirements; that is, a crosswalk.

(2) A detailed description of the inspection process, including the following:

(i) Frequency of inspections.

(ii) Copies of inspection forms.

(iii) Instructions and guidelines.

(iv) A description of the review and decision-making process of inspections.

(v) A statement concerning whether inspections are announced or unannounced.

(vi) A description of the steps taken to monitor the correction of deficiencies.

(3) A description of the process for monitoring PT performance, including action to be taken in response to unsuccessful participation in a CMS-approved PT program.

(4) Procedures for responding to and for the investigation of complaints against its laboratories.

(5) A list of all its current laboratories and the expiration date of their accreditation or licensure, as applicable.

(6) Procedures for making PT information available (under State confidentiality and disclosure requirements, if applicable) including explanatory information required to interpret PT results, on a reasonable basis, upon request of any person.
