
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Accreditation by a Private, Nonprofit Accreditation Organization or Exemption Under an Approved State Laboratory Program
###### § 493.557 Additional submission requirements.
####### Specific requirements for a State licensure program.

(b)In addition to requirements in §§ 493.553 and 493.555, as part of the approval and review process, when a State licensure program applies or reapplies for exemption from the CLIA program, the State must do the following:

(1) Demonstrate to CMS that it has enforcement authority and administrative structures and resources adequate to enforce its laboratory requirements.

(2) Permit CMS or a CMS agent to inspect laboratories in the State.

(3) Require laboratories in the State to submit to inspections by CMS or a CMS agent as a condition of licensure or approval.

(4) Agree to pay the cost of the validation program administered in that State as specified in §§ 493.645(a) and 493.646(b).

(5) Take appropriate enforcement action against laboratories found by CMS not to be in compliance with requirements equivalent to CLIA requirements.

(6) Submit for Medicare and Medicaid payment purposes, a list of the specialties and subspecialties of tests performed by each laboratory.

(7) Submit a written presentation that demonstrates the agency's ability to furnish CMS with electronic data in compatible code, including the crosswalk specified in § 493.553(a)(1).

(8) Submit a statement acknowledging that the State will notify CMS through electronic transmission of the following:

(i) Any laboratory that has had its licensure or approval revoked or withdrawn or has been in any way sanctioned by the State within 30 days of taking the action.

(ii) Changes in licensure or inspection requirements.

(iii) Changes in specialties or subspecialties under which any licensed laboratory in the State performs testing.

(9) Provide information for the review of the State's enforcement procedures for laboratories found to be out of compliance with the State's requirements.

(10) Submit information that demonstrates the ability of the State to provide CMS with the following:

(i) Electronic data and reports in compatible code with the adverse or corrective actions resulting from PT results that constitute unsuccessful participation in PT programs.

(ii) Other data that CMS determines are necessary for validation and assessment of the State's inspection process requirements.

(11) Agree to provide CMS with written notification of any changes in its licensure/approval and inspection requirements.

(12) Agree to disclose any laboratory's PT results in accordance with a State's confidentiality requirements.

(13) Agree to take the appropriate enforcement action against laboratories found by CMS not to be in compliance with requirements comparable to condition-level requirements and report these enforcement actions to CMS.

(14) If approved, reapply to CMS every 2 years to renew its exempt status and to renew its agreement to pay the cost of the CMS-administered validation program in that State.
