
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Accreditation by a Private, Nonprofit Accreditation Organization or Exemption Under an Approved State Laboratory Program
###### ยง 493.573 Continuing Federal oversight of private nonprofit accreditation organizations and approved State licensure programs.
####### Notice.

(d)(1) CMS provides written notice, as appropriate, to the following:

(i) An accreditation organization indicating that its approval may be in jeopardy if a comparability or validation review reveals that it is not meeting the requirements of this subpart and CMS is initiating a review of the accreditation organization's deeming authority.

(ii) A State licensure program indicating that its CLIA exemption may be in jeopardy if a comparability or validation review reveals that it is not meeting the requirements of this subpart and that a review is being initiated of the CLIA exemption of the State's laboratories.

(2) The notice contains the following information:

(i) A statement of the discrepancies that were found as well as other related documentation.

(ii) An explanation of CMS's review process on which the final determination is based and a description of the possible actions, as specified in ยง 493.575, that CMS may impose based on the findings from the comparability or validation review.

(iii) A description of the procedures available if the accreditation organization or State licensure program, as applicable, desires an opportunity to explain or justify the findings made during the comparability or validation review.

(iv) The reapplication materials that the accreditation organization or State licensure program must submit and the deadline for that submission.
