
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart F - General Administration
###### ยง 493.643 Fee for determination of program compliance.
####### Schedule J.

(x)The laboratory performs more than 1,000,000 laboratory tests annually.

(2) For purposes of determining a laboratory's classification under this section, a test is a procedure or examination for a single analyte. (Tests performed for quality control, quality assurance, and proficiency testing are excluded from the laboratory's total annual volume). Each profile (that is, group of tests) is counted as the number of separate procedures or examinations; for example, a chemistry profile consisting of 18 tests is counted as 18 separate procedures or tests.

(3) For purposes of determining a laboratory's classification under this section, the specialties and subspecialties of service for inclusion are:

(i) The specialty of Microbiology, which includes one or more of the following subspecialties:

(A) Bacteriology.

(B) Mycobacteriology.

(C) Mycology.

(D) Parasitology.

(E) Virology.

(ii) The specialty of Serology, which includes one or more of the following subspecialties:

(A) Syphilis Serology.

(B) General immunology

(iii) The specialty of Chemistry, which includes one or more of the following subspecialties:

(A) Routine chemistry.

(B) Endocrinology.

(C) Toxicology.

(D) Urinalysis.

(iv) The specialty of Hematology.

(v) The specialty of Immunohematology, which includes one or more of the following subspecialties:

(A) ABO grouping and Rh typing.

(B) Unexpected antibody detection.

(C) Compatibility testing.

(D) Unexpected antibody identification.

(vi) The specialty of Pathology, which includes the following subspecialties:

(A) Cytology.

(B) Histopathology.

(C) Oral pathology.

(vii) The specialty of Radiobioassay.

(viii) The specialty of Histocompatibility.

(ix) The specialty of Clinical Cytogenetics.
