
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart F - General Administration
###### ยง 493.645 Additional fee(s) applicable to approved State laboratory programs and laboratories issued a certificate of accreditation, certificate of waiver, or certificate for PPM procedures.
####### Accredited laboratories.

(b)(1) In addition to the certificate fee, a laboratory that is issued a certificate of accreditation is also assessed a fee to cover the cost of evaluating individual laboratories to determine overall whether an accreditation organization's standards and inspection policies are equivalent to the Federal program. All accredited laboratories share in the cost of these inspections. These costs are the same as those that are incurred when inspecting nonaccredited laboratories.

(2) If a laboratory issued a certificate of accreditation has been inspected and followup visits are necessary because of identified deficiencies, HHS assesses the laboratory a fee to cover the cost of these visits. The fee is based on the actual resources and time necessary to perform the followup visits. HHS revokes the laboratory's certificate of accreditation for failure to pay the assessed fee.

(c) If, in the case of a laboratory that has been issued a certificate of accreditation, certificate of waiver, or certificate for PPM procedures, it is necessary to conduct a complaint investigation, impose sanctions, or conduct a hearing, HHS assesses that laboratory a fee to cover the cost of these activities. Costs are based on the actual resources and time necessary to perform the activities and are not assessed until after the laboratory concedes the existence of deficiencies or an ALJ rules in favor of HHS. HHS revokes the laboratory's certificate for failure to pay the assessed costs. If a complaint investigation results in a complaint being unsubstantiated, or if an HHS adverse action is overturned at the conclusion of the administrative appeals process, the costs of these activities are not imposed upon the laboratory.
