
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart I - Proficiency Testing Programs for Nonwaived Testing
###### Proficiency Testing Programs by Specialty and Subspecialty
####### ยง 493.911 Bacteriology.
######## Evaluation of a laboratory's performance.

(c)HHS approves only those programs that assess the accuracy of a laboratory's responses in accordance with paragraphs (c) (1) through (7) of this section.

(1) The program determines staining characteristics to be interpreted by Gram stain. The program determines the reportable bacteria to be detected by direct antigen techniques or isolation. To determine the accuracy of a laboratory's response for Gram stain interpretation, direct antigen detection, identification, or antimicrobial susceptibility testing, the program must compare the laboratory's response for each sample with the response which reflects agreement of either 80 percent of ten or more referee laboratories or 80 percent or more of all participating laboratories.

(2) To evaluate a laboratory's response for a particular sample, the program must determine a laboratory's type of service in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. A laboratory must isolate and identify the organisms to the same extent it performs these procedures on patient specimens. A laboratory's performance will be evaluated on the basis of its final answer, for example, a laboratory specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be evaluated on the basis of the average of its scores for paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(6) as determined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.

(3) Since laboratories may incorrectly report the presence of organisms in addition to the correctly identified principal organism(s), the grading system must provide a means of deducting credit for additional erroneous organisms that are reported. Therefore, the total number of correct responses for organism isolation and identification submitted by the laboratory divided by the number of organisms present plus the number of incorrect organisms reported by the laboratory must be multiplied by 100 to establish a score for each sample in each testing event. For example, if a sample contained one principal organism and the laboratory reported it correctly but reported the presence of an additional organism, which was not considered reportable, the sample grade would be 1/(1 + 1) x 100 = 50 percent.
