
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart I - Proficiency Testing Programs for Nonwaived Testing
###### Proficiency Testing Programs by Specialty and Subspecialty
####### ยง 493.931 Routine chemistry.
######## Evaluation of a laboratory's analyte or test performance.

(c)HHS approves only those programs that assess the accuracy of a laboratory's responses in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) To determine the accuracy of a laboratory's response for qualitative and quantitative chemistry tests or analytes, the program must compare the laboratory's response for each analyte with the response that reflects agreement of either 80 percent of ten or more referee laboratories or 80 percent or more of all participating laboratories. The score for a sample in routine chemistry is either the score determined under paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section.

(2) For quantitative chemistry tests or analytes, the program must determine the correct response for each analyte by the distance of the response from the target value. After the target value has been established for each response, the appropriateness of the response must be determined by using either fixed criteria based on the percentage difference from the target value or the number of standard deviations (SDs) the response differs from the target value.

The criteria for acceptable performance are-

(3) The criterion for acceptable performance for qualitative routine chemistry tests is positive or negative.

(4) To determine the analyte testing event score, the number of acceptable analyte responses must be averaged using the following formula:

(5) To determine the overall testing event score, the number of correct responses for all analytes must be averaged using the following formula:
