
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart K - Quality System for Nonwaived Testing
###### Analytic Systems
####### ยง 493.1276 Standard: Clinical cytogenetics.

(a) The laboratory must have policies and procedures for ensuring accurate and reliable patient specimen identification during the process of accessioning, cell preparation, photographing or other image reproduction technique, photographic printing, and reporting and storage of results, karyotypes, and photographs.

(b) The laboratory must have records that document the following:

(1) The media used, reactions observed, number of cells counted, number of cells karyotyped, number of chromosomes counted for each metaphase spread, and the quality of the banding.

(2) The resolution is appropriate for the type of tissue or specimen and the type of study required based on the clinical information provided to the laboratory.

(3) An adequate number of karyotypes are prepared for each patient.

(c) Determination of sex must be performed by full chromosome analysis.

(d) The laboratory report must include a summary and interpretation of the observations, number of cells counted and analyzed, and use the International System for Human Cytogenetic Nomenclature.

(e) The laboratory must document all control procedures performed, as specified in this section.
