
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart R - Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 493.1804 General considerations.
####### Choice of sanction: Factors considered.

(d)CMS bases its choice of sanction or sanctions on consideration of one or more factors that include, but are not limited to, the following, as assessed by the State or by CMS, or its agents:

(1) Whether the deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy.

(2) The nature, incidence, severity, and duration of the deficiencies or noncompliance.

(3) Whether the same condition level deficiencies have been identified repeatedly.

(4) The accuracy and extent of laboratory records (e.g., of remedial action) in regard to the noncompliance, and their availability to the State, to other CMS agents, and to CMS.

(5) The relationship of one deficiency or group of deficiencies to other deficiencies.

(6) The overall compliance history of the laboratory including but not limited to any period of noncompliance that occurred between certifications of compliance.

(7) The corrective and long-term compliance outcomes that CMS hopes to achieve through application of the sanction.

(8) Whether the laboratory has made any progress toward improvement following a reasonable opportunity to correct deficiencies.

(9) Any recommendation by the State agency as to which sanction would be appropriate.
