
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart R - Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 493.1844 Appeals procedures.
####### Actions that are not initial determinations.

(c)Actions that are not listed in paragraph (b) of this section are not initial determinations and therefore are not subject to appeal under this section. They include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:

(1) The finding that a laboratory accredited by a CMS-approved accreditation organization is no longer deemed to meet the conditions set forth in subparts H, J, K, M, and Q of this part. However, the suspension, limitation or revocation of a certificate of accreditation is an initial determination and is appealable.

(2) The finding that a laboratory determined to be in compliance with condition-level requirements but has deficiencies that are not at the condition level.

(3) The determination not to reinstate a suspended CLIA certificate because the reason for the suspension has not been removed or there is insufficient assurance that the reason will not recur.

(4) The determination as to which alternative sanction or sanctions to impose, including the amount of a civil money penalty to impose per day or per violation.

(5) The denial of approval for Medicare payment for the services of a laboratory that does not have in effect a valid CLIA certificate.

(6) The determination that a laboratory's deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy.

(7) The amount of the civil money penalty assessed per day or for each violation of Federal requirements.
