
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 493 - LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart R - Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 493.1850 Laboratory registry.

(a) Once a year CMS makes available to physicians and to the general public specific information (including information provided to CMS by the OIG) that is useful in evaluating the performance of laboratories, including the following:

(1) A list of laboratories that have been convicted, under Federal or State laws relating to fraud and abuse, false billing, or kickbacks.

(2) A list of laboratories that have had their CLIA certificates suspended, limited, or revoked, and the reason for the adverse actions.

(3) A list of persons who have been convicted of violating CLIA requirements, as specified in section 353(1) of the PHS Act, together with the circumstances of each case and the penalties imposed.

(4) A list of laboratories on which alternative sanctions have been imposed, showing-

(i) The effective date of the sanctions;

(ii) The reasons for imposing them;

(iii) Any corrective action taken by the laboratory; and

(iv) If the laboratory has achieved compliance, the verified date of compliance.

(5) A list of laboratories whose accreditation has been withdrawn or revoked and the reasons for the withdrawal or revocation.

(6) All appeals and hearing decisions.

(7) A list of laboratories against which CMS has brought suit under ยง 493.1846 and the reasons for those actions.

(8) A list of laboratories that have been excluded from participation in Medicare or Medicaid and the reasons for the exclusion.

(b) The laboratory registry is compiled for the calendar year preceding the date the information is made available and includes appropriate explanatory information to aid in the interpretation of the data. It also contains corrections of any erroneous statements or information that appeared in the previous registry.
