
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 494 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Patient Safety
###### ยง 494.30 Condition: Infection control.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1)(i) The recommendations (with the exception of screening for hepatitis C), found in "Recommendations for Preventing Transmission of Infections Among Chronic Hemodialysis Patients," developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, volume 50, number RR05, April 27, 2001, pages 18 to 28. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This publication is available for inspection at the CMS Information Resource Center, 7500 Security Boulevard, Central Building, Baltimore, MD or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Copies may be obtained at the CMS Information Resource Center. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The recommendation found under section header "HBV-Infected Patients", found on pages 27 and 28 of RR05 ("Recommendations for Preventing Transmission of Infections Among Chronic Hemodialysis Patients"), concerning isolation rooms, must be complied with by February 9, 2009.

(ii) When dialysis isolation rooms as required by (a)(1)(i) are available locally that sufficiently serve the needs of patients in the geographic area, a new dialysis facility may request a waiver of such requirement. Isolation room waivers may be granted at the discretion of, and subject to, additional qualifications as may be deemed necessary by the Secretary.
