
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 494 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Patient Safety
###### ยง 494.50 Condition: Reuse of hemodialyzers and bloodlines.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) Meet the requirements of AAMI published in "Reuse of Hemodialyzers," third edition, ANSI/AAMI RD47:2002 and RD47:2002/A1:2003. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This publication is available for inspection at the CMS Information Resource Center, 7500 Security Boulevard, Central Building, Baltimore, MD or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies may be purchased from the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, 3300 Washington Boulevard, Suite 400, Arlington, VA 22201-4598.

(2) Reprocess hemodialyzers and bloodlines-

(i) By following the manufacturer's recommendations; or

(ii) Using an alternate method and maintaining documented evidence that the method is safe and effective.

(3) Not expose hemodialyzers to more than one chemical germicide, other than bleach (used as a cleaner in this application), during the life of the dialyzer. All hemodialyzers must be discarded before a different chemical germicide is used in the facility.
