
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 494 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Patient Safety
###### ยง 494.62 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Training program.

(1)The dialysis facility must do all of the following:

(i) Provide initial training in emergency preparedness policies and procedures to all new and existing staff, individuals providing services under arrangement, and volunteers, consistent with their expected roles.

(ii) Provide emergency preparedness training at least every 2 years.

(iii) Demonstrate staff knowledge of emergency procedures, including informing patients of-

(A) What to do;

(B) Where to go, including instructions for occasions when the geographic area of the dialysis facility must be evacuated;

(C) Whom to contact if an emergency occurs while the patient is not in the dialysis facility. This contact information must include an alternate emergency phone number for the facility for instances when the dialysis facility is unable to receive phone calls due to an emergency situation (unless the facility has the ability to forward calls to a working phone number under such emergency conditions); and

(D) How to disconnect themselves from the dialysis machine if an emergency occurs.

(iv) Demonstrate that, at a minimum, its patient care staff maintains current CPR certification; and

(v) Properly train its nursing staff in the use of emergency equipment and emergency drugs.

(vi) Maintain documentation of the training.

(vii) If the emergency preparedness policies and procedures are significantly updated, the dialysis facility must conduct training on the updated policies and procedures.
