
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 494 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Patient Safety
###### ยง 494.62 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Communication plan.

(c)The dialysis facility must develop and maintain an emergency preparedness communication plan that complies with Federal, State, and local laws and must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. The communication plan must include all of the following:

(1) Names and contact information for the following:

(i) Staff.

(ii) Entities providing services under arrangement.

(iii) Patients' physicians.

(iv) Other dialysis facilities.

(v) Volunteers.

(2) Contact information for the following:

(i) Federal, State, tribal, regional or local emergency preparedness staff.

(ii) Other sources of assistance.

(3) Primary and alternate means for communicating with the following:

(i) Dialysis facility's staff.

(ii) Federal, State, tribal, regional, or local emergency management agencies.

(4) A method for sharing information and medical documentation for patients under the dialysis facility's care, as necessary, with other health care providers to maintain the continuity of care.

(5) A means, in the event of an evacuation, to release patient information as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(1)(ii).

(6) A means of providing information about the general condition and location of patients under the facility's care as permitted under 45 CFR 164.510(b)(4).

(7) A means of providing information about the dialysis facility's needs, and its ability to provide assistance, to the authority having jurisdiction or the Incident Command Center, or designee.
