
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 494 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE FACILITIES
##### Subpart C - Patient Care
###### ยง 494.80 Condition: Patient assessment.
####### Standard: Assessment criteria.

(a)The patient's comprehensive assessment must include, but is not limited to, the following:

(1) Evaluation of current health status and medical condition, including co-morbid conditions.

(2) Evaluation of the appropriateness of the dialysis prescription, blood pressure, and fluid management needs.

(3) Laboratory profile, immunization history, and medication history.

(4) Evaluation of factors associated with anemia, such as hematocrit, hemoglobin, iron stores, and potential treatment plans for anemia, including administration of erythropoiesis-stimulating agent(s).

(5) Evaluation of factors associated with renal bone disease.

(6) Evaluation of nutritional status by a dietitian.

(7) Evaluation of psychosocial needs by a social worker.

(8) Evaluation of dialysis access type and maintenance (for example, arteriovenous fistulas, arteriovenous grafts, and peritoneal catheters).

(9) Evaluation of the patient's abilities, interests, preferences, and goals, including the desired level of participation in the dialysis care process; the preferred modality (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis), and setting, (for example, home dialysis), and the patient's expectations for care outcomes.

(10) Evaluation of suitability for a transplantation referral, based on criteria developed by the prospective transplantation center and its surgeon(s). If the patient is not suitable for transplantation referral, the basis for nonreferral must be documented in the patient's medical record.

(11) Evaluation of family and other support systems.

(12) Evaluation of current patient physical activity level.

(13) Evaluation for referral to vocational and physical rehabilitation services.
