
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 494 - CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE FACILITIES
##### Subpart C - Patient Care
###### ยง 494.110 Condition: Quality assessment and performance improvement.
####### Standard: Program scope.

(a)(1) The program must include, but not be limited to, an ongoing program that achieves measurable improvement in health outcomes and reduction of medical errors by using indicators or performance measures associated with improved health outcomes and with the identification and reduction of medical errors.

(2) The dialysis facility must measure, analyze, and track quality indicators or other aspects of performance that the facility adopts or develops that reflect processes of care and facility operations. These performance components must influence or relate to the desired outcomes or be the outcomes themselves. The program must include, but not be limited to, the following:

(i) Adequacy of dialysis.

(ii) Nutritional status.

(iii) Mineral metabolism and renal bone disease.

(iv) Anemia management.

(v) Vascular access.

(vi) Medical injuries and medical errors identification.

(vii) Hemodialyzer reuse program, if the facility reuses hemodialyzers.

(viii) Patient satisfaction and grievances.

(ix) Infection control; with respect to this component the facility must-

(A) Analyze and document the incidence of infection to identify trends and establish baseline information on infection incidence;

(B) Develop recommendations and action plans to minimize infection transmission, promote immunization; and

(C) Take actions to reduce future incidents.
