
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.2 Basis and purpose.

This part implements the following:

(a) Section 1848(o) of the Act by establishing payment incentives under Medicare Part B for eligible professionals who adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record (EHR) technology.

(b) Section 1853(1) of the Act to provide incentive payments to Medicare Advantage organizations for certain affiliated professionals who meaningfully use certified EHR technology and meet certain other requirements.

(c) Section 1886(n) of the Act by establishing incentives payments for the meaningful use of certified EHR technology by subsection (d) hospitals, as defined under section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act, participating in the Medicare FFS program.

(d) Section 1814(l) of the Act to provide an incentive payment to critical access hospitals that meaningfully use certified EHR technology based on the hospitals' reasonable costs.

(e) Section 1853(m) of the Act to provide incentive payments to MA organizations for certain affiliated hospitals that meaningfully use certified EHR technology.

(f) Sections 1903(a)(3)(F) and 1903(t) of the Act to provide 100 percent Federal financial participation (FFP) to States for incentive payments to certain eligible providers participating in the Medicaid program to purchase, implement, and operate (including support services and training for staff) certified EHR technology and 90 percent FFP for State administrative expenses related to such incentive payments.

(g) Sections 1848(a)(7), 1853(l)(4), 1886(b)(3)(B)(ix)(I), and 1853(m)(4) of the Act, providing for payment reductions for inpatient services furnished on or after October 1, 2014 to Medicare beneficiaries by hospitals that are not meaningful users of certified EHR technology, and for covered professional services furnished on or after January 1, 2015 to Medicare beneficiaries by certain professionals who are not meaningful users of certified EHR technology.
