
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.4 Definitions.
####### 2

() For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018.

(iii) For the CY 2019 payment year under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:

(A) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.

(B) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.

(iv) For the CY 2020 payment year under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:

(A) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.

(B) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.

(v) Under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program, for the CY 2021 payment year:

(A) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 that ends before October 31, 2021, or that ends before an earlier date in CY 2021 that is specified by the state and approved by CMS in the State Medicaid HIT plan described at ยง 495.332.

(B) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 that ends before October 31, 2021, or that ends before an earlier date in CY 2021 that is specified by the state and approved by CMS in the State Medicaid HIT plan described at ยง 495.332.

(2) For an eligible hospital or CAH-

(i) The following are applicable before 2015:

(A) For the payment year in which the eligible hospital or CAH is first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within the Federal fiscal year;

(B) Except as specified in paragraph (2)(iii) of this definition, for the subsequent payment years following the payment year in which the eligible hospital or CAH first successfully demonstrates it is a meaningful EHR user, the Federal fiscal year.

(C) For an eligible hospital or CAH seeking to demonstrate it is a meaningful EHR user for FY 2014, any of the following 3-month periods:
