
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.4 Definitions.
####### 2

() If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018 and applies for the FY 2020 payment adjustment year.

(iii) The following are applicable for 2019:

(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2020 and FY 2021 payment adjustment years.

(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2021 payment adjustment year.

(iv) The following are applicable for 2020:

(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2021 and 2022 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2021 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2020.

(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2022 payment adjustment year.

(v) The following are applicable for 2021:

(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2022 and 2023 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2022 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2021.

(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2023 payment adjustment year.

(vi) The following are applicable for 2022:

(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2023 and 2024 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2023 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2022.

(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2024 payment adjustment year.

(vii) The following are applicable for 2023:

(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2024 and 2025 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2024 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2023.

(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2025 payment adjustment year.

(viii) The following are applicable for 2024:

(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2025 and 2026 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2025 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2024.

(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2026 payment adjustment year.

(3) For a CAH-

(i) The following are applicable before 2015:

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (3)(i)(B) of this definition, the Federal fiscal year that is the payment adjustment year.

(B) If the CAH is demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user for the first time in the payment adjustment year, any continuous 90-day period within the Federal fiscal year that is the payment adjustment year.

(ii) The following are applicable for 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018:

(A) In 2015 as follows:
