
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.4 Definitions.
####### 2

() If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018 and applies for the FY 2018 payment adjustment year.

(iii) The following are applicable for 2019:

(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2019 payment adjustment year.

(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2019 payment adjustment year.

(iv) The following are applicable for 2020:

(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2020 payment adjustment year.

(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2020 payment adjustment year.

(v) The following are applicable for 2021:

(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2021 payment adjustment year.

(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2021 payment adjustment year.

(vi) The following are applicable for 2022:

(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2022 payment adjustment year.

(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2022 payment adjustment year.

(vii) The following are applicable for 2023:

(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2023 payment adjustment year.

(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2023 payment adjustment year.

(viii) The following are applicable for 2024:

(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2024 payment adjustment year.

(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2024 payment adjustment year.
