
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.20 Meaningful use objectives and measures for EPs, eligible hospitals, and CAHs before 2015.
####### Exclusions for nonapplicable objectives.

(2)(i) An eligible hospital or CAH may exclude a particular objective that includes an option for exclusion contained in paragraphs (f) or (g) of this section, if the hospital meets all of the following requirements:

(A) The hospital meets the criteria in the applicable objective that would permit an exclusion.

(B) The hospital so attests.

(ii)(A) An exclusion will reduce (by the number of exclusions received) the number of objectives that would otherwise apply. For example, an eligible hospital that is excluded from one of the objectives in paragraph (g) of this section must meet four (and not five) objectives of the hospital's choice from such paragraph to meet the definition of a meaningful EHR user.

(B) Beginning 2014, an exclusion does not reduce (by the number of exclusions applicable) the number of objectives that would otherwise apply in paragraph (g) of this section. Eligible hospitals or CAHs must meet five of the objectives and associated measures specified in paragraph (g) of this section, one which must be specified in paragraph (g)(8), (9), or (10) of this section.
