
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.20 Meaningful use objectives and measures for EPs, eligible hospitals, and CAHs before 2015.
####### Flexible options for using certified EHR technology in 2014.

(4)For an EHR reporting period in 2014, if an eligible hospital or CAH could not fully implement 2014 Edition certified EHR technology due to delays in availability and uses-

(i) Only 2011 Edition certified EHR technology, the eligible hospital or CAH must satisfy the objectives and associated measures of the Stage 1 criteria that were applicable for 2013;

(ii) A combination of 2011 Edition certified EHR technology and 2014 Edition certified EHR technology, the eligible hospital or CAH may choose to satisfy one of the following sets of objectives and associated measures:

(A) The Stage 1 criteria that were applicable for 2013.

(B) The Stage 1 criteria that are applicable beginning 2014.

(C) If the eligible hospital or CAH is scheduled to begin Stage 2 in 2014, the Stage 2 criteria.

(c) Many of the objective and associated measures in paragraphs paragraphs (d) through (m) of this section rely on measures that count unique patients or actions.

(1) If a measure (or associated objective) in paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section references paragraph (c) of this section, then the measure may be calculated by reviewing only the actions for patients whose records are maintained using certified EHR technology. A patient's record is maintained using certified EHR technology if sufficient data was entered in the certified EHR technology to allow the record to be saved, and not rejected due to incomplete data.

(2) If the objective and associated measure does not reference this paragraph (c) of this section, then the measure must be calculated by reviewing all patient records, not just those maintained using certified EHR technology.
