
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.20 Meaningful use objectives and measures for EPs, eligible hospitals, and CAHs before 2015.
####### Exclusion for non-applicable objectives.

(2)(i) An EP may exclude a particular objective contained in paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, if the EP meets all of the following requirements:

(A) Must ensure that the objective in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section includes an option for the EP to attest that the objective is not applicable.

(B) Meets the criteria in the applicable objective that would permit the attestation.

(C) Attests.

(ii) (A) An exclusion will reduce (by the number of exclusions applicable) the number of objectives that would otherwise apply. For example, an EP that has an exclusion from one of the objectives in paragraph (e) of this section must meet four (and not five) objectives of the EP's choice from such paragraph to meet the definition of a meaningful EHR user.

(B) Beginning 2014, an exclusion does not reduce (by the number of exclusions applicable) the number of objectives that would otherwise apply in paragraph (e) of this section unless five or more objectives can be excluded. An EP must meet five of the objectives and associated measures specified in paragraph (e) of this section, one of which must be either paragraph (e)(9) or (10) of this section, unless the EP has an exclusion from five or more objectives specified in paragraph (e) of this section, in which case the EP must meet all remaining objectives and associated measures in paragraph (e) of this section.
