
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.20 Meaningful use objectives and measures for EPs, eligible hospitals, and CAHs before 2015.
####### Exclusion for nonapplicable objectives.

(2)(i) An EP may exclude a particular objective contained in paragraph (j) or (k) of this section, if the EP meets all of the following requirements:

(A) Must ensure that the objective in paragraph (j) or (k) of this section includes an option for the EP to attest that the objective is not applicable.

(B) Meets the criteria in the applicable objective that would permit the attestation.

(C) Attests.

(ii)(A) An exclusion will reduce (by the number of exclusions applicable) the number of objectives that would otherwise apply in paragraph (j) of this section. For example, an EP that has an exclusion from one of the objectives in paragraph (j) of this section must meet 16 objectives from such paragraph to meet the definition of a meaningful EHR user.

(B) An exclusion does not reduce (by the number of exclusions applicable) the number of objectives that would otherwise apply in paragraph (k) of this section unless four or more exclusions apply. For example, an EP that has an exclusion for one of the objectives in paragraph (k) of this section must meet three of the five nonexcluded objectives from such paragraph to meet the definition of a meaningful EHR user. If an EP has an exclusion for four of the objectives in paragraph (k) of this section, then he or she must meet the remaining two nonexcluded objectives from such paragraph to meet the definition of a meaningful EHR user.
