
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 67 - AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY AND RESEARCH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
##### Subpart A - Research Grants for Health Services Research, Evaluation, Demonstration, and Dissemination Projects
###### ยง 67.15 Peer review of applications.
####### Procedural adjustments for small grants.

(b)(1) The Administrator may make adjustments in the peer review procedures established in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section for grant applications with total direct costs that do not exceed the amount specified in section 922(d)(2) of the PHS Act, hereafter referred to as "small grants."

(2) Non-Federal and Federal experts will be selected by the Administrator for the review of small grant applications on the basis of their training and experience in particular scientific and technical fields, their knowledge of health services research and the application of research findings, and their special knowledge of the issue(s) being addressed or methods and technology being used in the specific proposal.

(3) Review of applications for small grants may be by a review group established in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, or by individual field readers, or by an ad hoc group of reviewers.

(4) The review criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section shall be used for the review of small grant applications.

(5) Each reviewer or group of reviewers to whom an application has been submitted under paragraph (b) of this section shall make a written report to the Administrator on each application. Each report shall summarize the findings of the review and provide a recommendation to the Administrator on whether the application should be given further consideration. For applications recommended for further consideration, the report may also address, as applicable, the degree to which the proposed project relates to AHCPR-announced priorities.
