
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 67 - AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY AND RESEARCH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
##### Subpart A - Research Grants for Health Services Research, Evaluation, Demonstration, and Dissemination Projects
###### ยง 67.17 Grant award.

(a) Within the limits of available funds, the Administrator may award grants to those applicants whose projects are being considered for funding, which in the judgment of the Administrator, will promote best the purposes of Title IX of the PHS Act and (if applicable) section 1142 of the Social Security Act, AHCPR priorities, and the regulations of this subpart.

(b) The Notice of Grant Award specifies how long the Administrator intends to support the project without requiring the project to recompete for funds. This period, called the project period, will usually be for 3-5 years, except for small grants, which usually are 1 year awards. The project period as specified in the Notice of Grant Award shall begin no later than 9 months following the date of the award, except that the project period must begin in the same fiscal year as that from which funds are being awarded.

(c) Upon request from the grantee, Department grants policy permits an extension of the project period for up to 12 months, without additional funds, when more time is needed to complete the research. The Administrator may approve a request for an additional extension of time based on unusual circumstances with written justification submitted by the grantee, prior to the completion of the project period. In no case will an additional extension of more than 12 months be approved.

(d) Generally, a grant award will be for 1 year, and subsequent continuation awards will be for 1 year at a time. A grantee must submit a separate continuation application to have the support continued for each subsequent year. Decisions regarding continuation awards and the funding level of such awards will be made after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices and the availability of funds. In all cases, continuation awards require a determination by the Administrator that continuation is in the best interest of the Federal Government.

(e) Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any grant commits or obligates the Federal Government in any way to make any additional, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application.
