
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 495.40 Demonstration of meaningful use criteria.
####### Attestation.

(i)Attest, through a secure mechanism, in a manner specified by CMS (or for a Medicaid EP, in a manner specified by the State) that during the EHR reporting period, the EP-

(A) Used certified EHR technology and specify the technology used.

(B) For calendar years before 2015, satisfied the required objectives and associated measures under § 495.20 for the EP's stage of meaningful use.

(C) Must specify the EHR reporting period and provide the result of each applicable measure for all patients seen during the EHR reporting period for which a selected measure is applicable.

(D) For 2014 only, if the EP uses one of the options specified in § 495.20(a)(4) or (h)(3), the EP must attest that he or she is unable to fully implement 2014 Edition certified EHR technology for an EHR reporting period in 2014 due to delays in 2014 Edition certified EHR technology availability.

(E) For CYs 2015 through 2016, satisfied the required objectives and associated measures under § 495.22(e) for meaningful use.

(F) For CY 2017 and CY 2018: An EP that has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year may satisfy either the objectives and measures specified in § 495.22(e) for meaningful use or the objectives and measures specified in § 495.24(d) for meaningful use; an EP that has never successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year must satisfy the objectives and measures specified in § 495.22(e) for meaningful use.

(G) For CY 2019 and subsequent years, satisfied the required objectives and associated measures under § 495.24(d) for meaningful use.

(H) Supporting providers with the performance of CEHRT (SPPC). To engage in activities related to supporting providers with the performance of CEHRT, the EP-
