
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 495.60 Participation requirements for EPs, eligible hospitals, and CAHs.

(a) An eligible hospital, CAH or EP must submit in a manner specified by CMS the following information in the first payment year:

(1) Name of the EP, eligible hospital or CAH.

(2) National Provider Identifier (NPI).

(3) Business address, business email address, and phone number.

(4) Such other information as specified by CMS.

(b) In addition to the information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, an eligible hospital or CAH, must, in the first payment year, submit in a manner specified by CMS its CMS Certification Number (CCN) and its Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).

(c) Subject to paragraph (f) of this section, in addition to the information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, an EP must submit in a manner specified by CMS, the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) which may be the EP's Social Security Number (SSN) to which the EP's incentive payment should be made.

(d) In the event the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section as previously submitted to CMS is no longer accurate, the EP, eligible hospital or CAH must provide updated information to CMS or the State on a timely basis in the manner specified by CMS or the State.

(e) An EP that qualifies as both a Medicaid EP and Medicare EP-

(1) Must notify CMS in the manner specified by CMS as to whether he or she elects to participate in the Medicare or the Medicaid EHR incentive program;

(2) After receiving at least one EHR incentive payment, may switch between the two EHR incentive programs only one time, and only for a payment year before 2015;

(3) Must, for each payment year, meet all of the applicable requirements, including applicable patient volume requirements, for the program in which he or she chooses to participate (Medicare or Medicaid);

(4) Is limited to receiving, in total, the maximum payments the EP would receive under the Medicaid EHR program, as described in subpart D of this part; and

(5) Is placed in the payment year the EP would have been in had the EP begun in and remained in the program to which he or she has switched. For example, an EP that begins receiving Medicaid incentive payments in 2011, and then switches to the Medicare program for 2012, is in his or her second payment year in 2012.
