
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Requirements Specific to the Medicare Program
###### ยง 495.102 Incentive payments to EPs.
####### Exceptions.

(4)The Secretary may, on a case-by-case basis, exempt an EP from the application of the payment adjustment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the Secretary determines that compliance with the requirement for being a meaningful EHR user would result in a significant hardship for the EP. To be considered for an exception, an EP must submit, in the manner specified by CMS, an application demonstrating that it meets one or more of the criteria in this paragraph (d)(4) unless otherwise specified in the criteria. The Secretary's determination to grant an EP an exemption may be renewed on an annual basis, provided that in no case may an EP be granted an exemption for more than 5 years.

(i) During any 90-day period from the beginning of the year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year to July 1 of the year preceding the payment adjustment year, or a later date specified by CMS, the EP was located in an area without sufficient Internet access to comply with the meaningful use objectives requiring internet connectivity, and faced insurmountable barriers to obtaining such internet connectivity. Applications requesting this exception must be submitted no later than July 1 of the year before the applicable payment adjustment year, or a later date specified by CMS.

(ii) The EP has been practicing for less than 2 years.

(iii)(A) During the calendar year that is 2 calendar years before the payment adjustment year, the EP that has previously demonstrated meaningful use faces extreme and uncontrollable circumstances that prevent it from becoming a meaningful EHR user. Applications requesting this exception must be submitted no later than July 1 of the year before the applicable payment adjustment year, or a later date specified by CMS.

(B) During the calendar year preceding the payment adjustment year, the EP that has not previously demonstrated meaningful use faces extreme and uncontrollable circumstances that prevent it from becoming a meaningful EHR user. Applications requesting this exception must be submitted by July 1 of the year before the applicable payment adjustment year, or a later date specified by CMS.

(iv) An EP may request an exception through an application submitted by July 1 of the year before the applicable payment adjustment year, or a later date specified by CMS due to difficulty in meeting meaningful use based on any one of the following during the period that begins 2 calendar years before the payment adjustment year through the application deadline:

(A) The EP practices at multiple locations and can demonstrate inability to control the availability of Certified EHR Technology at one such practice location or a combination of practice locations, and where the location or locations constitute more than 50 percent of their patient encounters.

(B) The EP can demonstrate difficulty in meeting meaningful use on the basis of lack of face-to-face or telemedicine interaction with patients and lack of need for follow up with patients.

(C) The EP has a primary specialty listed in PECOS as anesthesiology, radiology or pathology 6 months prior to the first day of the payment adjustments that would otherwise apply. Such an EP may be deemed to qualify for this exception, subject to the 5-year limit that applies to all exceptions under this paragraph.

(v) For the 2018 payment adjustment only, an EP who has not successfully demonstrated meaningful use in a prior year, intends to attest to meaningful use for an EHR reporting period in 2017 by October 1, 2017 to avoid the 2018 payment adjustment, and intends to transition to the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) and report on measures specified for the advancing care information performance category under the MIPS in 2017. The EP must explain in the application why demonstrating meaningful use for an EHR reporting period in 2017 would result in a significant hardship. Applications requesting this exception must be submitted no later than October 1, 2017, or a later date specified by CMS.
