
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Requirements Specific to the Medicare Program
###### ยง 495.104 Incentive payments to eligible hospitals.
####### Transition periods.

(b)Subject to paragraph (d) of this section and the payment formula specified in paragraph (c) of this section, qualifying hospitals may receive incentive payments during transition periods which comprise the following fiscal years:

(1) Hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2011 may receive such payments for FYs 2011 through 2014.

(2) Hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2012 may receive such payments for FYs 2012 through 2015.

(3) Hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2013 may receive such payments for FYs 2013 through 2016.

(4) Hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2014 may receive such payments for FY 2014 through 2016.

(5) Hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2015 may receive such payments for FY 2015 through 2016.

(6) Puerto Rico eligible hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2016 may receive such payments for FYs 2016 through 2019.

(7) Puerto Rico eligible hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2017 may receive such payments for FYs 2017 through 2020.

(8) Puerto Rico eligible hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2018 may receive such payments for FYs 2018 through 2021.

(9) Puerto Rico eligible hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2019 may receive such payments for FYs 2019 through 2021.

(10) Puerto Rico eligible hospitals whose first payment year is FY 2020 may receive such payments for FYs 2020 through 2021.
