
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Requirements Specific to Medicare Advantage (MA) Organizations
###### ยง 495.202 Identification of qualifying MA organizations, MA-EPs and MA-affiliated eligible hospitals.
####### Identification of qualifying MA EPs and qualifying MA-affiliated eligible hospitals.

(b)(1) A qualifying MA organization, as part of its initial bid starting with plan year 2012, must make a preliminary identification of MA EPs and MA-affiliated eligible hospitals that the MA organization believes will be qualifying MA EPs and MA-affiliated eligible hospitals for which the organization is seeking incentive payments for the current plan year.

(2) A qualifying MA organization must provide CMS with the following for each MA EP or eligible hospital when reporting under either paragraph (b)(1) or (4) of this section:

(i) The MA EP's or MA-affiliated eligible hospital's name.

(ii) The address of the MA EP's practice or MA-affiliated eligible hospital's location.

(iii) NPI or CCN.

(iv) An attestation by MA organization specifying that the MA EP or MA-affiliated eligible hospital meets the eligibility criteria.

(3) When reporting under either paragraph (b)(1) or (4) of this section for purposes of receiving an incentive payment, a qualifying MA organization must also indicate whether more than 50 percent of the covered Medicare professional services being furnished by a qualifying MA EP to MA plan enrollees of the MA organization are being furnished in a designated geographic HPSA (as defined in ยง 495.100 of this part).

(4) Final identification of qualifying and potentially qualifying, as applicable, MA EPs and MA-affiliated eligible hospitals must be made within 2 months of the close of the payment year or the EHR reporting period that applies to the payment adjustment year as defined in ยง 495.200.

(5) Beginning plan year 2015 and for subsequent plan years, all qualifying MA organizations, as part of their initial bids in June for the following plan year must-

(i) Identify all MA EPs and MA-affiliated eligible hospitals of the MA organization that the MA organization believes will be either qualifying or potentially qualifying;

(ii) Include information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section for each professional or hospital; and

(iii) Include an attestation that each professional and hospital either meets or does not meet the EHR incentive payment eligibility criteria.
