
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.306 Establishing patient volume.
####### Needy individual patient volume.

(2)To calculate needy individual patient volume an EP must divide-

(i)(A) The total Needy Individual patients assigned to the EP's panel in any representative, continuous 90-day period in the either the calendar year preceding the EP's payment year, or the 12 months before the EP's attestation when at least one Needy Individual encounter took place with the individual in the 24 months before the beginning of the same 90-day period; plus

(B) Unduplicated Needy Individual encounters in the same 90-day period, by

(ii)(A) The total patients assigned to the provider in that same 90-day period with at least one encounter taking place with the patient during the 24 months before the beginning of the 90-day period, plus

(B) All unduplicated patient encounters in the same 90-day period.

(e) For purposes of this section, the following rules apply:

(1) A Medicaid encounter means services rendered to an individual on any one day where:

(i) Medicaid (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid for part or all of the service.

(ii) Medicaid (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid all or part of the individual's premiums, co-payments, and cost-sharing.

(iii) The individual was enrolled in a Medicaid program (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) at the time the billable service was provided.

(2) For purposes of calculating hospital patient volume, both of the following definitions in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section may apply:

(i) A Medicaid encounter means services rendered to an individual per inpatient discharge when any of the following occur:

(A) Medicaid (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid for part or all of the service.

(B) Medicaid (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid all or part of the individual's premiums, co-payments, and/or cost-sharing.

(C) The individual was enrolled in a Medicaid program (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) at the time the billable service was provided.

(ii) A Medicaid encounter means services rendered in an emergency department on any 1 day if any of the following occur:

(A) Medicaid (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid for part or all of the service.

(B) Medicaid (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid all or part of the individual's premiums, co-payments, and cost-sharing.

(C) The individual was enrolled in a Medicaid program (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) at the time the billable service was provided.

(3) For purposes of calculating needy individual patient volume, a needy patient encounter means services rendered to an individual on any 1 day if any of the following occur:

(i) Medicaid or CHIP (or a Medicaid or CHIP demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid for part or all of the service.

(ii) Medicaid or CHIP (or a Medicaid or CHIP demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) paid all or part of the individual's premiums, co-payments, or cost-sharing.

(iii) The individual was enrolled in a Medicaid program (or a Medicaid demonstration project approved under section 1115 of the Act) at the time the billable service was provided.

(iv) The services were furnished at no cost; and calculated consistent with ยง 495.310(h).

(v) The services were paid for at a reduced cost based on a sliding scale determined by the individual's ability to pay.
