
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### § 495.316 State monitoring and reporting regarding activities required to receive an incentive payment.

(a) Subject to § 495.332 the State is responsible for tracking and verifying the activities necessary for a Medicaid EP or eligible hospital to receive an incentive payment for each payment year, as described in § 495.314.

(b) Subject to § 495.332, the State must submit a State Medicaid HIT Plan to CMS that includes-

(1) A detailed plan for monitoring, verifying and periodic auditing of the requirements for receiving incentive payments, as described in § 495.314; and

(2) A description of the how the State will collect and report on provider meaningful use of certified EHR technology.

(c) Subject to §§ 495.332 and 495.352, the State is required to submit to CMS annual reports, in the manner prescribed by CMS, on the following:

(1) Provider adoption, implementation, or upgrade of certified EHR technology activities and payments; and

(2) Aggregated, de-identified meaningful use data.

(d)(1) The annual report described in paragraph (c) of this section must include, but is not limited to the following:

(i) The number and type of providers who qualified for an incentive payment on the basis of having adopted, implemented, or upgraded certified EHR technology.

(ii) Aggregated data tables representing the provider adoption, implementation, or upgrade of certified EHR technology.

(iii) The number and type of providers who qualified for an incentive payment on the basis of demonstrating that they are meaningful users of certified EHR technology;

(iv) Aggregated data tables representing the provider's clinical quality measures data; and

(v) A description and quantitative data on how its incentive payment program addressed individuals with unique needs such as children.

(2)(i) Subject to § 495.332, the State may propose a revised definition for Stage 1 of meaningful use of certified EHR technology, subject to CMS prior approval, but only with respect to the following objectives:

(A) Generate lists of patients by specific conditions to use for quality improvement, reduction of disparities, research or outreach.

(B) Capability to submit electronic data to immunization registries or immunization information systems and actual submission except where prohibited, and according to applicable law and practice.

(C) Capability to submit electronic data on reportable (as required by State or local law) lab results to public health agencies and actual submission except where prohibited according to applicable law and practice.

(D) Capability to submit electronic syndromic surveillance data to public health agencies and actual submission except where prohibited and according to applicable law and practice.

(ii) Subject to § 495.332, the State may propose a revised definition for Stage 2 of meaningful use of certified EHR technology, subject to CMS prior approval, but only with respect to the following objectives:

(A) Generate lists of patients by specific conditions to use for quality improvement, reduction of disparities, research, or outreach.

(B) Capability to submit electronic data to immunization registries or immunization information systems, except where prohibited, and in accordance with applicable law and practice.

(C) Capability to submit electronic reportable laboratory results to public health agencies, except where prohibited, and in accordance with applicable law and practice.

(D) Capability to provide electronic syndromic surveillance data to public health agencies, except where prohibited, and in accordance with applicable law and practice.

(E) Capability to identify and report cancer cases to a public health central cancer registry, except where prohibited, and in accordance with applicable law and practice.

(F) Capability to identify and report specific cases to a specialized registry (other than a cancer registry), except where prohibited, and in accordance with applicable law and practice.

(iii) Subject to § 495.332, the State may propose a revised definition for Stage 3 of meaningful use of CEHRT, subject to CMS prior approval, but only with respect to the public health and clinical data registry reporting objective described in § 495.24(d)(8).

(e) State failure to submit the required reports to CMS may result in discontinued or disallowed funding.

(f) Each State must submit to CMS the annual report described in paragraph (c) of this section within 60 days of the end of the second quarter of the Federal fiscal year.

(g) The State must, on a quarterly basis and in the manner prescribed by CMS, submit a report(s) on the following:

(1) The State and payment year to which the quarterly report pertains.

(2) Subject to paragraph (h)(2) of this section, provider-level attestation data for each eligible hospital that attests to demonstrating meaningful use for each payment year beginning with 2013 and ending after 2018.

(3) Subject to paragraph (h)(2) of this section, provider-level attestation data for each eligible EP that attests to demonstrating meaningful use for each payment year beginning with 2013 and ending after 2016.

(h)(1) Subject to paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the quarterly report described in paragraph (g) of this section must include the following for each EP and eligible hospital:

(i) The payment year number.

(ii) The provider's National Provider Identifier or CCN, as appropriate.

(iii) Attestation submission date.

(iv) The state qualification.

(v) The state qualification date, which is the beginning date of the provider's EHR reporting period for which it demonstrated meaningful use.

(vi) The State disqualification, if applicable.

(vii) The State disqualification date, which is the beginning date of the provider's EHR reporting period to which the provider attested but for which it did not demonstrate meaningful use, if applicable.

(2) The quarterly report described in paragraph (g) of this section is not required to include information on EPs who are eligible for the Medicaid EHR incentive program on the basis of being a nurse practitioner, certified nurse-midwife or physician assistant.
