
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.324 Prior approval conditions.

(a) A State must obtain prior written approval as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, when the State plans to initiate planning and implementation activities in support of Medicaid provider incentive payments encouraging the adoption and meaningful use of certified EHR technology with proposed Federal financial participation.

(b) To receive 90 percent match, each State must receive prior approval for all of the following:

(1) The HIT advance planning document and the implementation advance planning document.

(2) For the acquisition solicitation documents and any contract that a State may utilize to complete activities under this subpart, unless specifically exempted by the Department of Health and Human Services, prior to release of the acquisition solicitation documents or prior to execution of the contract, when the contract is anticipated to or will exceed $500,000.

(3) For contract amendments, unless specifically exempted by the Department of Health and Human Services, prior to execution of the contract amendment, involving contract cost increases exceeding $500,000 or contract time extensions of more than 60 days.

(4) The State Medicaid HIT plan.

(c) Failure to submit any of the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section to the satisfaction of HHS may result in disapproval or suspension of project funding.

(d) A State must obtain prior written approval from HHS of its justification for a sole source acquisition, when it plans to acquire noncompetitively from a nongovernmental source HIT equipment or services, with proposed FFP under this subpart if the total State and Federal acquisition cost is more than $500,000.
