
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.332 State Medicaid health information technology (HIT) plan requirements.
####### Monitoring and validation.

(c)Subject to paragraph (g) of this section, for monitoring and validation of information States must include the following:

(1) A description of the process in place for ensuring that, because of CMS' and the States' oversight responsibilities, all provider information for attestations including meaningful use, efforts to adopt, implement, or upgrade and any information added to the CMS Single Provider Repository including all information related to patient volume, NPI, Tax identification number (TIN), are all true and accurate and that any concealment or falsification of a material fact related to the attestation may result in prosecution under Federal and State laws and a methodology in place used to verify such information.

(2) A description of the process in place for ensuring that the EP or eligible hospital is eligible to receive an incentive payment consistent with the criteria outlined in ยง 495.314 and a methodology in place used to verify such information.

(3) A description of the process in place for capturing attestations from each EP or eligible hospital that they have meaningfully used certified EHR technology during the EHR reporting period, and that they have adopted, implemented, or upgraded certified EHR technology and a description of the methodology in place used to verify such information.

(4) A description of the process in place for capturing clinical quality data from each EP or eligible hospital and a description of the methodology in place used to verify such information.

(5) A description of the process in place for monitoring the compliance of providers coming onto the program with different requirements depending upon their participation year and a methodology for verifying such information.

(6) A list of the specific actions planned to implement the EHR incentive program, including a description and organizational charts for workgroups within State government including external partners.

(7) A description of the process in place to ensure that no amounts higher than 100 percent of FFP will be claimed by the State for reimbursement of expenditures for State payments to Medicaid eligible providers for the certified EHR technology incentive payment program and a methodology for verifying such information.

(8) A description of the process in place to ensure that no amounts higher than 90 percent of FFP will be claimed by the State for administrative expenses in administering the certified EHR technology incentive payment program and a methodology for verifying such information.

(9) A description of the process and methodology for ensuring and verifying the following:

(i) Amounts received under section 1903(a)(3)(F) of the Act with respect to payments to a Medicaid EP or eligible hospital are paid directly to such provider (or to an employer or facility to which such provider has assigned payments) without any deduction or rebate.

(ii) All incentive payment reassignments to an entity promoting the adoption of certified EHR technology, as designated by the State, are voluntary for the Medicaid EP involved.

(iii) Entities promoting the adoption of certified EHR technology do not retain more than 5 percent of such payments for costs not related to certified EHR technology (and support services including maintenance and training) that is for, or is necessary for the operation of, such technology.

(10) A description of the process in place for ensuring that each Medicaid EP or eligible hospital that collects an EHR payment incentive has collected a payment incentive from only one State even if the provider is licensed to practice in multiple States and a methodology for verifying such information.

(11)(i) A description of the process in place for ensuring that each EP or eligible hospital that wishes to participate in the EHR incentive payment program will receive a NPI; and

(ii) A description of how the NPI will be used to coordinate with the CMS so that the EP will choose only one program from which to receive the incentive payment and the hospital payments are tracked accordingly.

(12) A description of the process in place for ensuring that each EP or eligible hospital who wishes to participate in the EHR incentive payment program will provide a TIN to the State for purposes of the incentive payment.
