
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### § 495.332 State Medicaid health information technology (HIT) plan requirements.
####### Eligibility.

(b)For eligibility, a description of the process in place for all of the following:

(1) For ensuring that each EP and eligible hospital meets all provider enrollment eligibility criteria upon enrollment and re-enrollment to the Medicaid EHR payment incentive program.

(2) For ensuring patient volume consistent with the criteria in §§ 495.304 and 495.306 for each EP who practices predominantly in a FQHC or RHC and for each Medicaid EP who is a physician, pediatrician, nurse practitioner, certified nurse midwife or dentist and a methodology in place used to verify such information.

(3) For ensuring that the EP or eligible hospital is a provider who meets patient volume consistent with the criteria in §§ 495.304 and 495.306 and a methodology in place used to verify such information.

(4) For ensuring that each Medicaid EP is not hospital-based and a methodology in place used to verify such information.

(5) To ensure that a hospital eligible for incentive payments has demonstrated an average length of stay of 25 days or less and a methodology for verifying such information.

(6) For ensuring that at least one clinical location used for the calculation of the EP's patient volume has Certified EHR Technology during the payment year for which the EP is attesting.
