
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.332 State Medicaid health information technology (HIT) plan requirements.
####### State systems.

(a)For State systems, interoperability, and the current and future visions:

(1) A baseline assessment of the current HIT landscape environment in the State including the inventory of existing HIT in the State. The assessment must include a comprehensive-

(i) Description of the HIT "as-is" landscape;

(ii) Description of the HIT "to-be" landscape; and

(iii) HIT roadmap and strategic plan for the next 5 years.

(2) A description of how the State Medicaid HIT plan will be planned, designed, developed and implemented, including how it will be implemented in accordance with the Medicaid Information Technology Architecture (MITA) principles as described in the Medicaid Information Technology Framework 2.0. The MITA initiative-

(i) Establishes national guidelines for technologies and processes that enable improved program administration for the Medicaid enterprise;

(ii) Includes business, information and technology architectures that provide an overall framework for interoperability, as well as processes and planning guidelines for enabling State Medicaid enterprises to meet common objectives within the framework while supporting unique local needs; and

(iii) Is important to the design and development of State EHR incentive payment systems.

(3) A description of how intrastate systems, including the Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS) and other automated mechanized claims processing and information retrieval systems-

(i) Have been considered in developing a HIT solution; and

(ii) A plan that incorporates the design, development, and implementation phases for interoperability of such State systems with a description of how any planned systems enhancements support overall State and Medicaid goals.

(4) A description of data-sharing components of HIT solutions.

(5) A description of how each State will promote secure data exchange, where permissible under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and other requirements included in ARRA.

(6) A description of how each State will promote the use of data and technical standards to enhance data consistency and data sharing through common data-access mechanisms.

(7) A description of how each State will support integration of clinical and administrative data.

(8) A description of the process in place for ensuring improvements in health outcomes, clinical quality, or efficiency resulting from the adoption of certified EHR technology by beneficiaries of Medicaid incentive payments and a methodology for verifying such information.

(9) A description of the process in place for ensuring that any certified EHR technology used as the basis for a payment incentive to Medicaid providers is compatible with State or Federal administrative management systems, including the MMIS or other automated claims processing system or information retrieval system and a methodology for verifying such information.

(10) A description of how each State will adopt national data standards for health and data exchange and open standards for technical solutions as they become available.

(11) A description of how the State intends to address the needs of underserved and vulnerable populations such as children, individuals with chronic conditions, Title IV-E foster care children, individuals in long-term care settings and the aged, blind, and disabled. This description must address the following:

(i) Person centered goals and objectives and shared decision-making;

(ii) Coordination of care across multiple service providers, funding sources, settings, and patient conditions-

(iii) Universal design to ensure access by people with disabilities and older Americans; and

(iv) Institutional discharge planning and diversion activities that are tied to community based service availability.
