
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### § 495.332 State Medicaid health information technology (HIT) plan requirements.
####### Optional-proposed alternatives.

(f)A State may choose to propose any of the following, but they must be included as an element in the State Medicaid HIT Plan for review and approval:

(1) An alternative methodology for measuring patient volume, consistent with § 495.306(g).

(2)(i) A revised definition of meaningful use of certified EHR technology consistent with §§ 495.4 and 495.316(d)(2) of this part.

(ii) Any revised definition of meaningful use may not require additional functionality beyond that of certified EHR technology and conform with CMS guidance on Stage 1. See also § 495.316(d)(2).

(3) An alternative date within CY 2021 by which all "EHR reporting periods" (as defined under § 495.4) for the CY 2021 payment year for Medicaid EPs demonstrating they are meaningful EHR users must end. The alternative date selected by the state must be earlier than October 31, 2021, and must not be any earlier than the day prior to the attestation deadline for Medicaid EPs attesting to that state.

(4) An alternative date within CY 2021 by which all clinical quality measure reporting periods for the CY 2021 payment year for Medicaid EPs demonstrating they are meaningful EHR users must end. The alternative date selected by the state must be earlier than October 31, 2021, and must not be any earlier than the day prior to the attestation deadline for Medicaid EPs attesting to that state.

(5) For the CY 2019 payment year and beyond, a state-specific listing of which clinical quality measures selected by CMS are considered to be high priority measures for purposes of Medicaid EP clinical quality measure reporting.
