
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.336 Health information technology planning advance planning document requirements (HIT PAPD).

Each State's HIT PAPD must contain the following:

(a) A statement of need and objective which clearly state the purpose and objectives of the project to be accomplished and the necessity for the project.

(b) A project management plan which addresses the following:

(1) The planning project organization.

(2) Planning activities and deliverables.

(3) State and contractor resource needs.

(4) Planning project procurement activities and schedule.

(c) A specific budget for the planning of the project.

(d) An estimated total project cost and a prospective State and Federal cost distribution, including planning and implementation.

(e) A commitment to submit a HIT implementation advance planning document.

(f) A commitment to conduct and complete activities which will result in the production of the State Medicaid HIT plan that includes conduct of the following activities:

(1) A statewide HIT environmental baseline self-assessment.

(2) An assessment of desired HIT future environment.

(3) Development of benchmarks and transition strategies to move from the current environment to the desired future environment.

(g) A commitment to submit the plan to CMS for approval.
