
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.348 Procurement standards.
####### Codes of conduct.

(c)The grantee must maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees engaged in the award and administration of contracts.

(1) No employee, officer, or agent must participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by Federal funds if a real or apparent conflict of interest would be involved.

(2) Such a conflict would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, or any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for an award.

(3) The officers, employees, and agents of the grantee must neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, or parties to sub agreements.

(4) Grantees may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value.

(5) The standards of conduct provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers, employers, or agents of the grantees.
