
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.352 Reporting requirements.

(a) Beginning with the first quarter of calendar year 2016, each State must submit to HHS on a quarterly basis a progress report, in the manner prescribed by HHS, documenting specific implementation and oversight activities performed during the quarter, including progress in implementing the State's approved Medicaid HIT plan.

(b) The quarterly progress reports must include, but need not be limited to providing, updates on the following:

(1) State system implementation dates.

(2) Provider outreach.

(3) Auditing.

(4) State-specific State Medicaid HIT Plan tasks.

(5) State staffing levels and changes.

(6) The number and type of providers that qualified for an incentive payment on the basis of having adopted, implemented or upgraded CEHRT and the amounts of incentive payments.

(7) The number and type of providers that qualified for an incentive payment on the basis of having demonstrated that they are meaningful users of CEHRT and the amounts of incentive payments.

(c) States must submit the quarterly progress reports described in this section within 30 days after the end of each federal fiscal year quarter.
