
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 498 - APPEALS PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT PARTICIPATION IN THE MEDICARE PROGRAM AND FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT THE PARTICIPATION OF ICFs/IID AND CERTAIN NFs IN THE MEDICAID PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 498.1 Statutory basis.

(a) Section 1866(h) of the Act provides for a hearing and for judicial review of the hearing for any institution or agency dissatisfied with a determination that it is not a provider, or with any determination described in section 1866(b)(2) of the Act.

(b) Section 1866(b)(2) of the Act lists determinations that serve as a basis for termination of a provider agreement.

(c) Sections 1128 (a) and (b) of the Act provide for exclusion of certain individuals or entities because of conviction of crimes related to their participation in Medicare and section 1128(f) provides for hearing and judicial review for exclusions.

(d) Section 1156 of the Act establishes certain obligations for practitioners and providers of health care services, and provides sanctions and penalties for those that fail to meet those obligations.

(e)-(f) [Reserved]

(g) Section 1866(j) of the Act provides for a hearing and judicial review for any provider or supplier whose application for enrollment or reenrollment in Medicare is denied or whose billing privileges are revoked.

(h) Section 1128A(c)(2) of the Act provides that the Secretary may not collect a civil money penalty until the affected entity has had notice and opportunity for a hearing.

(i) Section 1819(h) of the Act-

(1) Provides that, for SNFs found to be out of compliance with the requirements for participation, specified remedies may be imposed instead of, or in addition to, termination of the facility's Medicare provider agreement; and

(2) Makes certain provisions of section 1128A of the Act applicable to civil money penalties imposed on SNFs.

(j) Section 1891(e) of the Act provides that, for home health agencies (HHAs) found to be out of compliance with the conditions of participation, specified remedies may be imposed instead of, or in addition to, termination of the HHA's Medicare provider agreement.

(k) Section 1891(f) of the Act-

(1) Requires the Secretary to develop a range of such remedies; and

(2) Makes certain provisions of section 1128A of the Act applicable to civil money penalties imposed on HHAs.

(l) Section 1822 of the Act provides that for hospice programs that are no longer in compliance with the conditions of participation, the Secretary may develop remedies to be imposed instead of, or in addition to, termination of the hospice program's Medicare provider agreement.
