
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### § 495.366 Financial oversight and monitoring of expenditures.
####### Improper Medicaid electronic health record payment incentives.

(e)(1) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that no duplicate Medicaid EHR payment incentives are paid between the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or paid by more than one State even if the provider is licensed to practice in multiple States, or paid within more than one area of a State.

(2) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that Medicaid EHR incentive payments are made without reduction or rebate, have been paid directly to an eligible provider or to an employer, a facility, or an eligible third-party entity to which the Medicaid eligible provider has assigned payments.

(3) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that that Medicaid EHR incentive payments are made for no more than 6 years; that no EP or eligible hospital begins receiving payments after 2016; that incentive payments cease after 2021; and that an eligible hospital does not receive incentive payments after FY 2016 unless the hospital received an incentive payment in the prior fiscal year.

(4) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that only appropriate funding sources are used to make Medicaid EHR incentive payments.

(5) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that Medicaid EHR incentive payments are not paid at amounts higher than 85 percent of the net average allowable cost of certified EHR technology and the yearly maximum allowable payment thresholds.

(6) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that for those entities promoting the adoption of EHR technology, the Medicaid EHR incentive payments are paid on a voluntary basis and that these entities do not retain more than 5 percent of such payments for costs not related to certified EHR technology.

(7) Subject to § 495.332, the State must have a process in place to assure that any existing fiscal relationships with providers to disburse the incentive through Medicaid managed care plans does not exceed 105 percent of the capitation rate, in order to comply with the Medicaid managed care incentive payment rules at § 438.6(b)(2) of this chapter and a methodology for verifying such information.

(8) The State must not request reimbursement for Federal financial participation unless all requirements of this subpart have been satisfied.
