
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 495 - STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Requirements Specific to the Medicaid Program
###### ยง 495.370 Appeals process for a Medicaid provider receiving electronic health record incentive payments.

(a) The State must have a process in place consistent with the requirements established in ยง 447.253(e) of this chapter for a provider or entity to appeal the following issues related to the HIT incentives payment program:

(1) Incentive payments.

(2) Incentive payment amounts.

(3) Provider eligibility determinations.

(4) Demonstration of adopting, implementing, and upgrading, and meaningful use eligibility for incentives under this subpart.

(b) Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, the State's process must ensure the following:

(1) That the provider (whether an individual or an entity) has an opportunity to challenge the State's determination under this part by submitting documents or data or both to support the provider's claim.

(2) That such process employs methods for conducting an appeal that are consistent with the State's Administrative Procedure law(s).

(c) The State must provide that the provider (whether individual or entity) is also given any additional appeals rights that would otherwise be available under procedures established by the State.

(d) This section does not apply in the case that CMS conducts the audits and handles any subsequent appeals under ยง 495.312(c)(2) of this part.
