
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 498 - APPEALS PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT PARTICIPATION IN THE MEDICARE PROGRAM AND FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT THE PARTICIPATION OF ICFs/IID AND CERTAIN NFs IN THE MEDICAID PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 498.3 Scope and applicability.
####### Scope.

(a)(1) This part sets forth procedures for reviewing initial determinations that CMS makes with respect to the matters specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and that the OIG makes with respect to the matters specified in paragraph (c) of this section. It also specifies, in paragraph (d) of this section, administrative actions that are not subject to appeal under this part.

(2) The determinations listed in this section affect participation in the Medicare program. Many of the procedures of this part also apply to other determinations that do not affect participation in Medicare. Some examples follow:

(i) CMS's determination to terminate an NF's Medicaid provider agreement.

(ii) CMS's determination to cancel the approval of an ICF/IID under section 1910(b) of the Act.

(iii) CMS's determination, under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA), to impose alternative sanctions or to suspend, limit, or revoke the certificate of a laboratory even though it does not participate in Medicare.

(iv) CMS's determination to impose sanctions on the individual who is the administrator of a NF for failure to comply with the requirements at § 483.75(r) of this chapter.

(3) The following parts of this chapter specify the applicability of the provisions of this part 498 to sanctions or remedies imposed on the indicated entities or individuals:

(i) Part 431, subpart D-for nursing facilities (NFs).

(ii) Part 488, subpart E (§ 488.330(e))-for SNFs and NFs.

(iii) Part 488, subpart E (§ 488.330(e)) and subpart F (§ 488.446)-for SNFs and NFs and their administrators.
