
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 498 - APPEALS PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT PARTICIPATION IN THE MEDICARE PROGRAM AND FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT THE PARTICIPATION OF ICFs/IID AND CERTAIN NFs IN THE MEDICAID PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 498.3 Scope and applicability.
####### Initial determinations by CMS.

(b)CMS makes initial determinations with respect to the following matters:

(1) Whether a prospective provider qualifies as a provider.

(2) Whether a prospective department of a provider, remote location of a hospital, satellite facility, or provider-based entity qualifies for provider-based status under § 413.65 of this chapter, or whether such a facility or entity currently treated as a department of a provider, remote location of a hospital, satellite facility, or a provider-based entity no longer qualifies for that status under § 413.65 of this chapter.

(3) Whether an institution is a hospital qualified to elect to claim payment for all emergency hospital services furnished in a calendar year.

(4) Whether an institution continues to remain in compliance with the qualifications for claiming reimbursement for all emergency services furnished in a calendar year.

(5) Whether a prospective supplier meets the conditions for coverage of its services as those conditions are set forth elsewhere in this chapter.

(6) Whether the services of a supplier continue to meet the conditions for coverage.

(7) Whether a physical therapist in independent practice or a chiropractor meets the requirements for coverage of his or her services as set forth in subpart D of part 486 of this chapter and § 410.22 of this chapter, respectively.

(8) The termination of a provider agreement in accordance with § 489.53 of this chapter, or the termination of a rural health clinic agreement in accordance with § 405.2404 of this chapter, or the termination of a Federally qualified health center agreement in accordance with § 405.2436 of this chapter.

(9) CMS's cancellation, under section 1910(b) of the Act, of an ICF/IID's approval to participate in Medicaid.

(10) Whether, for purposes of rate setting and reimbursement, an ESRD treatment facility is considered to be hospital-based or independent.

(11) [Reserved]

(12) Whether a hospital, skilled nursing facility, home health agency, or hospice program meets or contimues to meet the advance directives requirements specified in subpart I of part 489 of this chapter.

(13) Except as provided at paragraph (d)(12) of this section for SNFs, NFs, HHAs, and hospice programs, the finding of noncompliance leading to the imposition of enforcement actions specified in § 488.406, § 488.820, or § 488.1170 of this chapter, but not the determination as to which sanction or remedy was imposed. The scope of review on the imposition of a civil money penalty is specified in § 488.438(e), § 488.845(h), or § 488.1195(h) of this chapter.

(14) The level of noncompliance found by CMS in a SNF, NF, HHA, or hospice program, but only if a successful challenge on this issue would affect-

(i) The range of civil money penalty amounts that CMS could collect (for SNFs or NFs, the scope of review during a hearing on imposition of a civil money penalty is set forth in § 488.438(e) of this chapter and for HHAs and hospice programs, the scope of review during a hearing on the imposition of a civil money penalty is set forth in §§ 488.845(h) and 488.1195(h) of this chapter); or

(ii) A finding of substandard quality of care that results in the loss of approval for a SNF or NF of its nurse aide training program.

(15) The effective date of a Medicare provider agreement or supplier approval.

(16) The finding of substandard quality of care that leads to the loss by a SNF or NF of the approval of its nurse aide training program.

(17)(i) Whether to deny or revoke a provider's or supplier's Medicare enrollment in accordance with § 424.530 or § 424.535 of this chapter;

(ii) Whether, under § 424.535(c)(2)(i) of this chapter, to add years to a provider's or supplier's existing reenrollment bar; or

(iii) Whether, under § 424.535(c)(3) of this chapter, an individual or entity other than the provider or supplier that is the subject of the second revocation was the actual subject of the first revocation.

(18) The level of noncompliance found by CMS with respect to the failure of an individual who is the administrator of a SNF to comply with the requirements at § 483.75(r) of this chapter, and the appropriate sanction to be imposed under § 488.446 of this chapter.

(19) Whether a physician or practitioner has failed to properly opt-out, failed to maintain opt-out, failed to timely renew opt-out, failed to privately contract, or failed to properly terminate opt-out.

(20) An individual or entity is to be included on the preclusion list as defined in § 422.2 or § 423.100 of this chapter.
