
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 498 - APPEALS PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT PARTICIPATION IN THE MEDICARE PROGRAM AND FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT THE PARTICIPATION OF ICFs/IID AND CERTAIN NFs IN THE MEDICAID PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 498.3 Scope and applicability.
####### Administrative actions that are not initial determinations.

(d)Administrative actions that are not initial determination (and therefore not subject to appeal under this part) include but are not limited to the following:

(1) The finding that a provider or supplier determined to be in compliance with the conditions or requirements for participation or for coverage has deficiencies.

(2) The finding that a prospective provider does not meet the conditions of participation set forth elsewhere in this chapter, if the prospective provider is, nevertheless, approved for participation in Medicare on the basis of special access certification, as provided in subpart B of part 488 of this chapter.

(3) The refusal to enter into a provider agreement because the prospective provider is unable to give satisfactory assurance of compliance with the requirements of title XVIII of the Act.

(4) The finding that an entity that had its provider agreement terminated may not file another agreement because the reasons for terminating the previous agreement have not been removed or there is insufficient assurance that the reasons for the exclusion will not recur.

(5) The determination not to reinstate a suspended or excluded practitioner, provider, or supplier because the reason for the suspension or exclusion has not been removed, or there is insufficient assurance that the reason will not recur.

(6) The finding that the services of a laboratory are covered as hospital services or as physician's services, rather than as services of an independent laboratory, because the laboratory is not independent of the hospital or of the physician's office.

(7) The refusal to accept for filing an election to claim payment for all emergency hospital services furnished in a calendar year because the institution-

(i) Had previously charged an individual or other person for services furnished during that calendar year;

(ii) Submitted the election after the close of that calendar year; or

(iii) Had previously been notified of its failure to continue to comply.

(8) The finding that the reason for the revocation of a supplier's right to accept assignment has not been removed or there is insufficient assurance that the reason will not recur.

(9) The finding that a hospital accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals or the American Osteopathic Association is not in compliance with a condition of participation, and a finding that that hospital is no longer deemed to meet the conditions of participation.

(10) For a SNF, NF, HHA, or hospice program-

(i) The finding that the provider's deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy to the health or safety of the residents or patients;

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(13) of this section, a determination by CMS as to the provider's level of noncompliance; and

(iii) For SNFs and NFs, the imposition of State monitoring.

(11) The choice of alternative sanction or remedy to be imposed on a provider or supplier.

(12) The determination that the accreditation requirements of a national accreditation organization do not provide (or do not continue to provide) reasonable assurance that the entities accredited by the accreditation organization meet the applicable long-term care requirements, conditions for coverage, conditions of certification, conditions of participation, or CLIA condition level requirements.

(13) The determination that requirements imposed on a State's laboratories under the laws of that State do not provide (or do not continue to provide) reasonable assurance that laboratories licensed or approved by the State meet applicable CLIA requirements.

(14) The choice of alternative sanction or remedy to be imposed on a provider or supplier.

(15) A decision by the State survey agency as to when to conduct an initial survey of a prospective provider or supplier.
