
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Standards and Certification
#### PART 498 - APPEALS PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT PARTICIPATION IN THE MEDICARE PROGRAM AND FOR DETERMINATIONS THAT AFFECT THE PARTICIPATION OF ICFs/IID AND CERTAIN NFs IN THE MEDICAID PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Departmental Appeals Board Review
###### ยง 498.88 Decision or remand by the Departmental Appeals Board.

(a) When the Departmental Appeals Board reviews an ALJ's decision or order of dismissal, or receives a case remanded by a court, the Board may either issue a decision or remand the case to an ALJ for a hearing and decision or a recommended decision for final decision by the Board.

(b) In a remanded case, the ALJ initiates additional proceedings and takes other actions as directed by the Board in its order of remand, and may take other action not inconsistent with that order.

(c) Upon completion of all action called for by the remand order and any other consistent action, the ALJ promptly makes a decision or, as specified by the Board, certifies the case to the Board with a recommended decision.

(d) The parties have 20 days from the date of a notice of a recommended decision to submit to the Board any exception, objection, or comment on the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommended decision.

(e) After the 20-day period, the Board issues its decision adopting, modifying or rejecting the ALJ's recommended decision.

(f) If the Board does not remand the case to an ALJ, the following rules apply:

(1) The Board's decision-

(i) Is based upon the evidence in the hearing record and any further evidence that the Board receives during its review;

(ii) Is in writing and contains separate numbered findings of fact and conclusions of law; and

(iii) May modify, affirm, or reverse the ALJ's decision.

(2) A copy of the Board's decision is mailed to each party.

(g) When a request for Board review of a denial of an enrollment application is filed after an ALJ has issued a decision or dismissal order, the Board must issue a decision, dismissal order or remand to the ALJ, as appropriate, no later than 180 days after the appeal was received by the Board.
