
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 68 - NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (NIH) LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAMS (LRPs)
##### § 68.7 How are applicants selected to participate in the NIH LRPs?

The NIH LRP awards are competitive. To be selected for participation in an NIH LRP, applicants must satisfy the following requirements:

(a) Applicants must meet the eligibility requirements specified in §§ 68.3 and 68.4 of this part.

(b) Applicants must not be ineligible for participation as specified in § 68.5 of this part.

(c) Upon receipt, applications for any of the NIH LRPs will be reviewed for eligibility and completeness by the NIH Division of Loan Repayment. Incomplete or ineligible applications will not be processed or reviewed further.

(d)(1) Applications for the Intramural LRPs that are deemed eligible and complete are submitted to the Loan Repayment Committee (LRC), which reviews, ranks, and approves/disapproves LRP awards. The LRC is composed of senior intramural scientists, including basic (bench) and clinical researchers and science policy administrators. Since LRP participation in the Intramural programs is contingent upon NIH employment, applicants must be recommended by the employing IC of the NIH to be considered by the LRC.

(2) Applications for the Extramural LRPs that are deemed eligible and complete will be referred by the NIH Center for Scientific Review (CSR) to an appropriate NIH IC for peer review. In evaluating the application, reviewers are directed to consider the following components and how they relate to the likelihood that the applicant will continue in a research career:

(i) Applicant's potential to pursue a career in research as defined by the appropriate LRP:

(A) Appropriateness of the applicant's previous training and experience to prepare for a research career.

(B) Appropriateness of the proposed research activities during the LRP contract to foster a career in research.

(C) Commitment to a research career, as reflected by the personal statement of long-term career goals and plan to achieve those goals.

(D) Strength of the letters of recommendations attesting to the applicant's potential for a successful career in research.

(ii) Quality of the overall environment to prepare the applicant for a research career:

(A) Quality and availability of appropriate scientific mentors and colleagues to help achieve or enhance the applicant's research independence, including the mentors' record in mentoring researchers, funding history, and research productivity.

(B) Quality and appropriateness of institutional resources and facilities.

(iii) For the Health Disparities Research subcategory, at least 50 percent of the contracts are required by statute to be for appropriately qualified health professionals who are members of a health disparity population.
