
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart D - Pricing and Payment
###### ยง 510.300 Determination of episode quality-adjusted target prices.
####### Identifying episodes with hip fracture.

(4)CMS develops a list of ICD-CM hip fracture diagnosis codes that, when reported in the principal diagnosis code files on the claim for the anchor hospitalization or anchor procedure, represent a bone fracture for which a hip replacement procedure, either a partial hip arthroplasty or a total hip arthroplasty, could be the primary surgical treatment. The list of ICD-CM hip fracture diagnosis codes used to identify hip fracture episodes can be found on the CMS website. Beginning on October 1, 2020, hip fracture episodes initiated by an anchor hospitalization will be identified by MS-DRGs 521 and 522.

(i) For performance years 1 through 5 only, on an annual basis, or more frequently as needed, CMS updates the list of ICD-CM hip fracture diagnosis codes to reflect coding changes or other issues brought to CMS' attention.

(ii) For performance years 1 through 5 only, CMS applies the following standards when revising the list of ICD-CM hip fracture diagnosis codes.

(A) The ICD-CM diagnosis code is sufficiently specific that it represents a bone fracture for which a physician could determine that a hip replacement procedure, either a Partial Hip Arthroplasty (PHA) or a THA, could be the primary surgical treatment.

(B) The ICD-CM diagnosis code is the primary reason (that is, principal diagnosis code) for the anchor hospitalization.

(iii) For performance years 1 through 5 only, CMS posts the following to the CMS website:

(A) Potential ICD-CM hip fracture diagnosis codes for public comment; and

(B) A final ICD-CM hip fracture diagnosis code list after consideration of public comment.
