
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart C - Scope of Episodes
###### § 510.200 Time periods, included and excluded services, and attribution.
####### Excluded services.

(d)The following items, services, and payments are excluded from the episode:

(1) Hemophilia clotting factors provided in accordance with § 412.115 of this chapter.

(2) New technology add-on payments, as defined in part 412, subpart F of this chapter.

(3) Transitional pass-through payments for medical devices as defined in § 419.66 of this chapter.

(4) Items and services unrelated to the anchor hospitalization or the anchor procedure. Excluded services include, but are not limited, to the following:

(i) Inpatient hospital admissions for MS-DRGs that group to the following categories of diagnoses:

(A) Oncology.

(B) Trauma medical.

(C) Chronic disease surgical, such as prostatectomy.

(D) Acute disease surgical, such as appendectomy.

(ii) Medicare Part B services, as identified by the principal ICD-CM diagnosis code on the claim (based on the ICD-CM version in use during the performance year) that group to the following categories of diagnoses:

(A) Acute disease diagnoses, such as severe head injury.

(B) Certain chronic disease diagnoses, as specified by CMS on a diagnosis-by-diagnosis basis depending on whether the condition was likely to have been affected by the LEJR procedure and recovery period or whether substantial services were likely to be provided for the chronic condition during the episode. Such chronic disease diagnoses are posted on the CMS Web site and may be revised in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(iii) Certain PBPM payments under models tested under section 1115A of the Act. PBPM model payments that CMS determines to be primarily used for care coordination or care management services for clinical conditions in excluded categories of diagnoses, as described in this paragraph.

(A) The list of excluded PBPM payments is posted on the CMS Web site and are revised in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, all PBPM model payments funded from CMS' Innovation Center appropriation are excluded from the episode.

(5) Certain incentive programs and add on payments under existing Medicare payment systems in accordance with § 510.300(b)(6) of this chapter.

(6) For performance years 1 through 4 and for performance year subsets 5.1 and 5.2, payments for otherwise included items and services in excess of 2 standard deviations above the mean regional episode payment in accordance with § 510.300(b)(5).

(7) For performance years 6 through 8 only, payments for otherwise included items and services in excess of the 99th percentile of regional spending, ranked within each region, for each of the four MS-DRG target price categories, as specified in § 510.300(a)(1) and (6), for performance years 6 through 8, in accordance with § 510.300(b)(5).
