
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart C - Scope of Episodes
###### ยง 510.200 Time periods, included and excluded services, and attribution.
####### Updating the lists of excluded services.

(e)(1) The list of excluded MS-DRGs, ICD-CM diagnosis codes, and CMS model PBPM payments are posted on the CMS Web site.

(2) For performance years 1 through 5 only, on an annual basis, or more frequently as needed, CMS updates the list of excluded services to reflect annual coding changes or other issues brought to CMS' attention.

(3) For performance years 1 through 5 only, CMS applies the following standards when revising the list of excluded services for reasons other than to reflect annual coding changes:

(i) Items or services that are directly related to the LEJR procedure or the quality or safety of LEJR care would be included in the episode.

(ii) Items or services for chronic conditions that may be affected by the LEJR procedure or post-surgical care would be related and included in the episode.

(iii) Items and services for chronic conditions that are generally not affected by the LEJR procedure or post-surgical care would be excluded from the episode.

(iv) Items and services for acute clinical conditions not arising from existing, episode-related chronic clinical conditions or complications of LEJR surgery would be excluded from the episode.

(v) PBPM payments under CMS models determined to be primarily used for care coordination or care management services for clinical conditions in excluded categories of diagnoses, as described in ยง 510.200(d), would be excluded from the episode.

(4) For performance years 1 through 5 only, CMS posts the following to the CMS website:

(i) Potential revisions to the exclusion to allow for public comment; and

(ii) An updated exclusions list after consideration of public comment.

(5) For performance years 6 through 8, the list of excluded services posted on the CMS website as it appears at the beginning of performance year 5 will apply and will not be updated.
