
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Fellowships, Internships, Training
#### PART 68 - NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (NIH) LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAMS (LRPs)
##### ยง 68.13 What will happen if an individual does not comply with the terms and conditions of participation in the NIH LRPs?

Program participants who breach their Loan Repayment Program Contracts will be subject to the applicable monetary payment provisions set forth at section 338E of the Act (42 U.S.C. 254o). Payment of any amount owed under section 338E of the Act shall be made within one year of the date the participant breached his or her Loan Repayment Program Contract, unless the NIH specifically authorizes a longer period. Terminations will not be considered a breach of contract in cases where such terminations are beyond the control of the participant as follows:

(a) Terminations for convenience of the government will not be considered a breach of contract and monetary damages will not be assessed.

(b) Occasionally, a participant's research assignment or funding may evolve and change to the extent that the individual is no longer engaged in approved research. Similarly, the research needs and priorities of the IC and/or the NIH may change to the extent that a determination is made that a health professional's skills may be better utilized in a nonresearch assignment. Normally, job changes of this nature will not be considered a breach of contract on the part of either the NIH or the participant. Under these circumstances, the following will apply:

(1) Program participation will cease as of the date an individual is no longer engaged in approved research;

(2) Based on the approval of the NIH, the participant will be released from the remainder of his or her service obligation without assessment of damages or monetary penalties. The participant in this case will be permitted to retain all Program benefits made or owed by the NIH on his/her behalf up to the date the individual is no longer engaged in research, less the pro rata portion of any benefits advanced beyond the period of completed service.
