
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart D - Pricing and Payment
###### ยง 510.310 Appeals process.
####### Dispute resolution process (second level of appeal).

(b)(1) If the participant hospital is dissatisfied with CMS's response to the notice of a calculation error, the participant hospital may request a reconsideration review in a form and manner as specified by CMS.

(2) The reconsideration review request must provide a detailed explanation of the basis for the dispute and include supporting documentation for the participant hospital's assertion that CMS or its representatives did not accurately calculate the NPRA, the reconciliation payment, or the repayment amount in accordance with ยง 510.305.

(3) If CMS does not receive a request for reconsideration from the participant hospital within 10 calendar days of the issue date of CMS's response to the participant hospital's notice of calculation error, then CMS's response to the calculation error is deemed final and CMS proceeds with reconciliation payment or repayment processes, as applicable, as described in ยง 510.305.

(4) A CMS reconsideration official notifies the participant hospital in writing within 15 calendar days of receiving the participant hospital's review request of the following:

(i) The issues in dispute.

(ii) The review procedures.

(iii) The procedures (including format and deadlines) for submission of briefs and evidence.

(5) The provisions at ยง 425.804(b), (c), and (e) of this chapter are applicable to reviews conducted in accordance with the reconsideration review process for CJR.

(6) The CMS reconsideration official makes all reasonable efforts to issue a written determination within 30 days of the deadline for submission of briefs and evidence. The determination is final and binding.
