
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart D - Pricing and Payment
###### § 510.315 Composite quality scores for determining reconciliation payment eligibility and quality incentive payments.
####### Quality performance points.

(c)CMS computes quality performance points for each quality measure based on the participant hospital's performance relative to the distribution of performance of all subsection (d) hospitals that are eligible for payment under IPPS and meet the minimum patient case or survey count for that measure.

(1) For the hospital-level risk-standardized complication rate following elective primary total hip arthroplasty and/or total knee arthroplasty measure (NQF #1550) described in § 510.400(a)(1), CMS assigns the participant hospital measure value to a performance percentile and then quality performance points are assigned based on the following performance percentile scale:

(i) 10.00 points for ≥90th.

(ii) 9.25 points for ≥80th and <90th.

(iii) 8.50 points for ≥70th and <80th;

(iv) 7.75 points for ≥60th and <70th.

(v) 7.00 points for ≥50th and <60th.

(vi) 6.25 points for ≥40th and <50th.

(vii) 5.50 points for ≥30th and <40th.

(viii) 0.0 points for <30th.

(2) For the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems Survey measure (NQF #0166) described in § 510.400(a)(2), CMS assigns the participant hospital measure value to a performance percentile and quality performance points are assigned based on the following performance percentile scale:

(i) 8.00 points for ≥90th.

(ii) 7.40 points for ≥80th and <90th.

(iii) 6.80 points for ≥70th and <80th.

(iv) 6.20 points for ≥60th and <70th.

(v) 5.60 points for ≥50th and <60th.

(vi) 5.00 points for ≥40th and <50th.

(vii) 4.40 points for ≥30th and <40th.

(viii) 0.0 points for <30th.
