
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart D - Pricing and Payment
###### ยง 510.315 Composite quality scores for determining reconciliation payment eligibility and quality incentive payments.
####### Composite quality score.

(b)CMS calculates a composite quality score for each participant hospital for each performance year or performance year subset which equals the sum of the following:

(1) The hospital's quality performance points for the hospital-level risk-standardized complication rate following elective primary total hip arthroplasty and/or total knee arthroplasty measure (NQF #1550) described in ยง 510.400(a)(1). This measure is weighted at 50 percent of the composite quality score.

(2) The hospital's quality performance points for the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems Survey measure (NQF #0166) described in ยง 510.400(a)(2). This measure is weighted at 40 percent of the composite quality score.

(3) Any additional quality improvement points the hospital may earn as a result of demonstrating improvement on either or both of the quality measures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) If applicable, 2 additional points for successful THA/TKA voluntary data submission of patient-reported outcomes and limited risk variable data, as described in ยง 510.400(b). Successful submission is weighted at 10 percent of the composite quality score.
