
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart E - Quality Measures, Beneficiary Protections, and Compliance Enforcement
###### ยง 510.405 Beneficiary choice and beneficiary notification.
####### CJR collaborator notice.

(2)A participant hospital must require every CJR collaborator to provide written notice to applicable CJR beneficiaries of the structure of the CJR model and the existence of its sharing arrangement with the participant hospital.

(i) With the exception of ACOs, PGPs, NPPGPs, and TGPs, a CJR participant hospital must require every CJR collaborator that furnishes an item or service to a CJR beneficiary during a CJR episode to provide written notice to the beneficiary of the structure of the model and the existence of the individual's or entity's sharing arrangement. The notice must be provided no later than the time at which the beneficiary first receives an item or service from the CJR collaborator during a CJR episode. In circumstances where, due to the patient's condition, it is not feasible to provide notification at such time, the notification must be provided to the beneficiary or his or her representative as soon as is reasonably practicable. The CJR collaborator must be able to generate a list of all beneficiaries who received such a notice, including the date on which the notice was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS upon request.

(ii) A participant hospital must require every PGP, NPPGP, or TGP that is a CJR collaborator where a member of the PGP, member of the NPPGP, or member of the TGP furnishes an item or service to a CJR beneficiary during a CJR episode to provide written notice to the beneficiary of the structure of the model and the existence of the entity's sharing arrangement. The notice must be provided no later than the time at which the beneficiary first receives an item or service from any member of the PGP, member of the NPPGP, or member of the TGP, and the required PGP, NPPGP, or TGP notice may be provided by that member respectively. In circumstances where, due to the patient's condition, it is not feasible to provide notice at such times, the notice must be provided to the beneficiary or his or her representative as soon as is reasonably practicable. The PGP, NPPGP, or TGP must be able to generate a list of all beneficiaries who received such a notice, including the date on which the notice was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS upon request.

(iii) A participant hospital must require every ACO that is a CJR collaborator where an ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier furnishes an item or service to a CJR beneficiary during a CJR episode to provide written notice to the beneficiary of the structure of the model and the existence of the entity's sharing arrangement. The notice must be provided no later than the time at which the beneficiary first receives an item or service from any ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier and the required ACO notice may be provided by that ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier respectively. In circumstances where, due to the patient's condition, it is not feasible to provide notice at such times, the notice must be provided to the beneficiary or his or her representative as soon as is reasonably practicable. The ACO must be able to generate a list of all beneficiaries who received such a notice, including the date on which the notice was provided to the beneficiary, to CMS upon request.
