
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart E - Quality Measures, Beneficiary Protections, and Compliance Enforcement
###### ยง 510.405 Beneficiary choice and beneficiary notification.
####### Beneficiary choice.

(a)The CJR model does not restrict Medicare beneficiaries' ability to choose any Medicare enrolled provider or supplier, or any physician or practitioner who has opted out of Medicare.

(1) As part of discharge planning and referral, participant hospitals must provide a complete list of HHAs, SNFs, IRFs, or LTCHs that are participating in the Medicare program, and that serve the geographic area (as defined by the HHA) in which the patient resides, or in the case of a SNF, IRF, or LTCH, in the geographic area requested by the patient.

(i) This list must be presented to CJR beneficiaries for whom home health care, SNF, IRF, or LTCH services are medically necessary.

(ii) Participant hospitals must specify on the list those post-acute care providers on the list with whom they have a sharing arrangement.

(iii) Participant hospitals may recommend preferred providers and suppliers, consistent with applicable statutes and regulations.

(iv) Participant hospitals may not limit beneficiary choice to any list of providers or suppliers in any manner other than that permitted under applicable statutes and regulations.

(v) Participant hospitals must take into account patient and family preferences when they are expressed.

(2) Participant hospitals may not charge any CJR collaborator a fee to be included on any list of preferred providers or suppliers, nor may the participant hospital accept such payments.
