
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart F - Financial Arrangements and Beneficiary Incentives
###### ยง 510.500 Sharing arrangements under the CJR model.
####### Requirements.

(b)(1) A sharing arrangement must be in writing and signed by the parties, and entered into before care is furnished to CJR beneficiaries under the sharing arrangement.

(2) Participation in a sharing arrangement must be voluntary and without penalty for nonparticipation.

(3) The sharing arrangement must require the CJR collaborator and its employees, contractors (including collaboration agents), and subcontractors (including downstream collaboration agents) to comply with all of the following:

(i) The applicable provisions of this part (including requirements regarding beneficiary notifications, access to records, record retention, and participation in any evaluation, monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities performed by CMS or its designees).

(ii) All applicable Medicare provider enrollment requirements at ยง 424.500 of this chapter, including having a valid and active TIN or NPI, during the term of the sharing arrangement.

(iii) All other applicable laws and regulations.

(4) The sharing arrangement must require the CJR collaborator to have or be covered by a compliance program that includes oversight of the sharing arrangement and compliance with the requirements of the CJR model that apply to its role as a CJR collaborator, including any distribution arrangements.

(5) The sharing arrangement must not pose a risk to beneficiary access, beneficiary freedom of choice, or quality of care.

(6) The board or other governing body of the participant hospital must have responsibility for overseeing the participant hospital's participation in the CJR model, its arrangements with CJR collaborators, its payment of gainsharing payments, its receipt of alignment payments, and its use of beneficiary incentives in the CJR model.

(7) The written agreement memorializing a sharing arrangement must specify the following:

(i) The purpose and scope of the sharing arrangement.

(ii) The obligations of the parties, including specified CJR activities and other services to be performed by the parties under the sharing arrangement.

(iii) The date of the sharing arrangement.

(iv) The financial or economic terms for payment, including the following:

(A) Eligibility criteria for a gainsharing payment.

(B) Eligibility criteria for an alignment payment.

(C) Frequency of gainsharing or alignment payment.

(D) Methodology and accounting formula for determining the amount of a gainsharing payment or alignment payment.

(8) The sharing arrangement must not-

(i) Induce the participant hospital, CJR collaborator, or any employees, contractors, or subcontractors of the participant hospital or CJR collaborator to reduce or limit medically necessary services to any Medicare beneficiary; or

(ii) Restrict the ability of a CJR collaborator to make decisions in the best interests of its patients, including the selection of devices, supplies, and treatments.
