
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart F - Financial Arrangements and Beneficiary Incentives
###### ยง 510.500 Sharing arrangements under the CJR model.
####### Documentation requirements.

(d)(1) Participant hospitals must-(i) Document the sharing arrangement contemporaneously with the establishment of the arrangement;

(ii) Publicly post (and update on at least a quarterly basis) on a Web page on the CJR participant hospital's Web site-

(A) Accurate current and historical lists of all CJR collaborators, including CJR collaborator names and addresses.

(B) Written policies for selecting individuals and entities to be CJR collaborators required by ยง 510.500(a)(3).

(iii) Maintain and require each CJR collaborator to maintain contemporaneous documentation with respect to the payment or receipt of any gainsharing payment or alignment payment that includes at a minimum:

(A) Nature of the payment (gainsharing payment or alignment payment);

(B) Identity of the parties making and receiving the payment;

(C) Date of the payment;

(D) Amount of the payment;

(E) Date and amount of any recoupment of all or a portion of a CJR collaborator's gainsharing payment.

(F) Explanation for each recoupment, such as whether the CJR collaborator received a gainsharing payment that contained funds derived from a CMS overpayment on a reconciliation report, or was based on the submission of false or fraudulent data.

(2) The participant hospital must keep records of all of the following:

(i) Its process for determining and verifying its potential and current CJR collaborators' eligibility to participate in Medicare.

(ii) Its plan to track internal cost savings.

(iii) Information on the accounting systems used to track internal cost savings.

(iv) A description of current health information technology, including systems to track reconciliation payments and internal cost savings.

(v) Its plan to track gainsharing payments and alignment payments.

(3) The participant hospital must retain and provide access to, and must require each CJR collaborator to retain and provide access to, the required documentation in accordance with ยง 510.110.
