
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 510 - COMPREHENSIVE CARE FOR JOINT REPLACEMENT MODEL
##### Subpart F - Financial Arrangements and Beneficiary Incentives
###### ยง 510.515 Beneficiary incentives under the CJR model.
####### General.

(a)Participant hospitals may choose to provide in-kind patient engagement incentives to beneficiaries in a CJR episode, subject to the following conditions:

(1) The incentive must be provided directly by the participant hospital or by an agent of the hospital under the hospital's direction and control to the beneficiary during a CJR episode of care.

(2) The item or service provided must be reasonably connected to medical care provided to a beneficiary during a CJR episode of care.

(3) The item or service must be a preventive care item or service or an item or service that advances a clinical goal, as listed in paragraph (c) of this section, for a beneficiary in a CJR episode by engaging the beneficiary in better managing his or her own health.

(4) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services outside the CJR episode of care.

(5) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services from a particular provider or supplier.

(6) The availability of the items or services must not be advertised or promoted except that a beneficiary may be made aware of the availability of the items or services at the time the beneficiary could reasonably benefit from them.

(7) The cost of the items or services must not be shifted to another federal health care program, as defined at section 1128B(f) of the Act.
