
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions Related to Innovation Center Models
###### ยง 512.135 Audits and record retention.
####### Access to records.

(b)The model participant and its downstream participants must maintain and give the Federal government, including CMS, HHS, and the Comptroller General, or their designees, access to all such documents and other evidence sufficient to enable the audit, evaluation, inspection, or investigation of the implementation of the Innovation Center model, including without limitation, documents and other evidence regarding all of the following:

(1) The model participant's and its downstream participants' compliance with the terms of the Innovation Center model, including this subpart.

(2) The accuracy of model-specific payments made under the Innovation Center model.

(3) The model participant's payment of amounts owed to CMS under the Innovation Center model.

(4) Quality measure information and the quality of services performed under the terms of the Innovation Center model, including this subpart.

(5) Utilization of items and services furnished under the Innovation Center model.

(6) The ability of the model participant to bear the risk of potential losses and to repay any losses to CMS, as applicable.

(7) Patient safety.

(8) Other program integrity issues.
