
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions Related to Innovation Center Models
###### ยง 512.150 Monitoring and compliance.
####### CMS monitoring and compliance activities.

(b)(1) CMS may conduct monitoring activities to ensure compliance by the model participant and each of its downstream participants with the terms of the Innovation Center model including this subpart; to understand model participants' use of model-specific payments; and to promote the safety of beneficiaries and the integrity of the Innovation Center model. Such monitoring activities may include, without limitation, all of the following:

(i) Documentation requests sent to the model participant and its downstream participants, including surveys and questionnaires.

(ii) Audits of claims data, quality measures, medical records, and other data from the model participant and its downstream participants.

(iii) Interviews with members of the staff and leadership of the model participant and its downstream participants.

(iv) Interviews with beneficiaries and their caregivers.

(v) Site visits to the model participant and its downstream participants, performed in a manner consistent with paragraph (c) of this section.

(vi) Monitoring quality outcomes and clinical data, if applicable.

(vii) Tracking patient complaints and appeals.

(2) In conducting monitoring and oversight activities, CMS or its designees may use any relevant data or information including without limitation all Medicare claims submitted for items or services furnished to model beneficiaries.
