
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions Related to Innovation Center Models
###### ยง 512.160 Remedial action.
####### Remedial actions.

(b)If CMS determines that one or more grounds for remedial action described in paragraph (a) of this section has taken place, CMS may take one or more of the following remedial actions:

(1) Notify the model participant and, if appropriate, require the model participant to notify its downstream participants of the violation.

(2) Require the model participant to provide additional information to CMS or its designees.

(3) Subject the model participant to additional monitoring, auditing, or both.

(4) Prohibit the model participant from distributing model-specific payments, as applicable.

(5) Require the model participant to terminate, immediately or by a deadline specified by CMS, its agreement with a downstream participant with respect to the Innovation Center model.

(6) In the ETC Model only:

(i) Terminate the ETC Participant from the ETC Model.

(ii) Suspend or terminate the ability of the ETC Participant, pursuant to ยง 512.397(c), to reduce or waive the coinsurance for kidney disease patient education services.

(7) Require the model participant to submit a corrective action plan in a form and manner and by a deadline specified by CMS.

(8) Discontinue the provision of data sharing and reports to the model participant.

(9) Recoup model-specific payments.

(10) Reduce or eliminate a model-specific payment otherwise owed to the model participant.

(11) Such other action as may be permitted under the terms of this part.
