
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions Related to Innovation Center Models
###### ยง 512.160 Remedial action.
####### Grounds for remedial action.

(a)CMS may take one or more remedial actions described in paragraph (b) of this section if CMS determines that the model participant or a downstream participant:

(1) Has failed to comply with any of the terms of the Innovation Center Model, including this subpart.

(2) Has failed to comply with any applicable Medicare program requirement, rule, or regulation.

(3) Has taken any action that threatens the health or safety of a beneficiary or other patient.

(4) Has submitted false data or made false representations, warranties, or certifications in connection with any aspect of the Innovation Center model.

(5) Has undergone a change in control that presents a program integrity risk.

(6) Is subject to any sanctions of an accrediting organization or a Federal, State, or local government agency.

(7) Is subject to investigation or action by HHS (including the HHS Office of Inspector General and CMS) or the Department of Justice due to an allegation of fraud or significant misconduct, including being subject to the filing of a complaint or filing of a criminal charge, being subject to an indictment, being named as a defendant in a False Claims Act qui tam matter in which the Federal government has intervened, or similar action.

(8) Has failed to demonstrate improved performance following any remedial action imposed under this section.

(9) For the ETC Model only, has misused or disclosed the beneficiary-identifiable data in a manner that violates any applicable statutory or regulatory requirements or that is otherwise non-compliant with the provisions of the applicable data sharing agreement.
