
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions Related to Innovation Center Models
###### ยง 512.150 Monitoring and compliance.
####### Site visits.

(c)(1) In a manner consistent with ยง 512.130, the model participant and its downstream participants must cooperate in periodic site visits performed by CMS or its designees in order to facilitate the evaluation of the Innovation Center model and the monitoring of the model participant's compliance with the terms of the Innovation Center model, including this subpart.

(2) CMS or its designee provides, to the extent practicable, the model participant or downstream participant with no less than 15 days advance notice of any site visit. CMS-

(i) Will attempt, to the extent practicable, to accommodate a request for particular dates in scheduling site visits.

(ii) Will not accept a date request from a model participant or downstream participant that is more than 60 days after the date of the CMS initial site visit notice.

(3) The model participant and its downstream participants must ensure that personnel with the appropriate responsibilities and knowledge associated with the purpose of the site visit are available during all site visits.

(4) Additionally, CMS may perform unannounced site visits at the office of the model participant and any of its downstream participants at any time to investigate concerns about the health or safety of beneficiaries or other patients or other program integrity issues.

(5) Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit or otherwise prevent CMS from performing site visits permitted or required by applicable law.
