
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart B - Radiation Oncology Model
###### RO Model Participation
####### ยง 512.210 RO participants and geographic areas.
######## Low volume opt-out.

(c)A PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD that would otherwise be required to participate in the RO Model may choose to opt-out of the RO Model as follows:

(1) If the PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD furnished fewer than 20 episodes in the calendar year that is two years prior to the start of PY1 across all CBSAs selected for participation, it may opt out of the RO Model for PY1.

(2) If the PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD furnished fewer than 20 episodes in the calendar year that is two years prior to the start of PY2 across all CBSAs selected for participation, it may opt out of the RO Model for PY2.

(3) If the PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD furnished fewer than 20 RO episodes in PY1 across all CBSAs selected for participation, and PY1 begins on January 1, it may choose to opt out of the RO Model for PY3. In the event that PY1 begins on a date other than January 1, the PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD may opt-out of the RO Model for PY3 if the total number of furnished episodes of the calendar year in which PY1 began and RO episodes in PY1 is fewer than 20 across all CBSAs selected for participation.

(4) If the PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD furnished fewer than 20 RO episodes in PY2 across all CBSAs selected for participation, it may opt out of the RO Model for PY4.

(5) If the PGP, freestanding radiation therapy center, or HOPD furnished fewer than 20 RO episodes in PY3 across all CBSAs selected for participation, it may opt out of the RO Model for PY5.

(6) At least 30 days prior to the start of each PY, CMS provides notice to RO participants eligible for the low volume opt-out for the upcoming PY of such eligibility. The RO participant must attest that it intends to opt out of the RO Model prior to the start of the upcoming PY.

(7) An entity is not eligible for the low-volume opt out if its current TIN or CCN, or its legacy TIN or legacy CCN, or both were used to bill Medicare for 20 or more episodes or RO episodes, as applicable, of RT services in the two years prior to the applicable PY across all CBSAs selected for participation.
