
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart B - Radiation Oncology Model
###### Pricing Methodology
####### ยง 512.255 Determination of participant-specific professional episode payment and participant-specific technical episode payment amounts.
######## Coinsurance.

(12)RO participants may collect beneficiary coinsurance payments for services furnished under the RO Model in multiple installments under a payment plan.

(i) The availability of payment plans may not be used as a marketing tool to influence beneficiary choice of health care provider.

(ii) RO participants offering a payment plan may inform the RO beneficiary of the availability of the payment plan prior to or during the initial treatment planning session and as necessary thereafter.

(iii) The beneficiary coinsurance payment equals 20 percent of the episode payment amount to be paid to the RO participant(s) prior to the application of sequestration for the billed RO Model-specific HCPCS code with a SOE modifier and for the billed RO Model-specific HCPCS code with an EOE modifier for the PC and TC, except as provided in paragraph (c)(12)(iv) and(v) of this section.

(iv) In the case of incomplete episodes, the beneficiary coinsurance payment equals 20 percent of the FFS amounts that would have been paid in the absence of the RO Model for the services furnished by the RO participant that initiated the PC and the RO participant that initiated the TC (if applicable).

(v) In the case of duplicate RT services, the beneficiary coinsurance payment equals 20 percent of the episode payment amount to be paid to the RO participant(s) per ยง 512.255(c)(12)(iii) and 20 percent of the FFS amount to the RT provider and/or RT supplier furnishing one or more duplicate RT services.
