
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart B - Radiation Oncology Model
###### Reconciliation and Review Process
####### ยง 512.285 Reconciliation process.
######## Annual reconciliation calculations.

(b)(1) To determine the reconciliation payment or the repayment amount based on RO episodes initiated in a PY, CMS performs the following steps:

(i) CMS calculates an RO participant's incorrect episode payment reconciliation amount as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) CMS calculates the RO participant's quality reconciliation amount as described in paragraph (d) of this section, if applicable.

(iii) CMS calculates the RO participant's patient experience reconciliation amount, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, if applicable.

(iv) CMS calculates the stop-loss reconciliation amount, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, if applicable.

(v) CMS adds, as applicable, the incorrect episode payment reconciliation amount, any quality reconciliation payment amount, any patient experience reconciliation amount, and any stop-loss reconciliation payment amount. The sum of these amounts results in a reconciliation payment or repayment amount.

(2) CMS calculations use claims data available at the time of reconciliation.
