
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart B - Radiation Oncology Model
###### Reconciliation and Review Process
####### ยง 512.290 Timely error notice and reconsideration review process.
######## Timely error notice.

(a)Subject to the limitations on review in ยง 512.170, an RO participant that identifies and wishes to contest a suspected error in the calculation of its reconciliation payment or repayment amount or AQS must provide written notice of the suspected calculation error to CMS within 45 days of the date of the reconciliation report. Such timely error notice must be in a form and manner specified by CMS. RO participants are not permitted to contest the RO Model pricing methodology or AQS methodology.

(1) Unless a timely error notice is received by CMS within 45 days of the date of issuance of a reconciliation report, the reconciliation payment or repayment amount determination specified in that reconciliation report is deemed binding and not subject to further review.

(2) If CMS receives a timely error notice, then CMS responds in writing within 30 days either to confirm that there was an error in the calculation or to verify that the calculation is correct. CMS may extend the deadline for its response upon written notice to the RO participant.

(3) Only the RO participant may use the timely error notice process described in this paragraph and the reconsideration review process described in paragraph (b) of this section.
