
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart C - ESRD Treatment Choices Model
###### Performance Payment Adjustment
####### ยง 512.365 Performance assessment.
######## Living donor transplant rate for ESRD facilities.,1,2

(ii)(A) The denominator is the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. For MY1 and MY2, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month. For MY3 through MY10, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month, or had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis and were receiving treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary had a diagnosis of vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)() of this section. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)() of this section.

(B) The numerator is the total number of attributed beneficiary years for LDT Beneficiaries during the MY. Beneficiary years for LDT Beneficiaries included in the numerator are composed of those months between the beginning of the MY up to and including the month of the transplant for LDT Beneficiaries attributed to an ESRD facility during the month of the transplant. LDT Beneficiaries are identified using information about living donor transplants from the SRTR Database and Medicare claims data.

(iii) The ESRD facility transplant waitlist rate is risk adjusted, as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The ESRD facility transplant rate is aggregated, as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
