
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart C - ESRD Treatment Choices Model
###### Medicare Program Waivers
####### § 512.397 ETC Model Medicare program waivers and additional flexibilities.
######## Beneficiary cost sharing.

(2)The payment adjustments under the ETC Model described in this subpart do not affect the beneficiary cost-sharing amounts for Part B services furnished by ETC Participants under the ETC Model.

(b) CMS waives the following requirements of title XVIII of the Act solely for purposes of testing the ETC Model:

(1) CMS waives the requirement under section 1861(ggg)(2)(A)(i) of the Act and § 410.48(a) of this chapter that only doctors, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists can furnish kidney disease patient education services to allow kidney disease patient education services to be provided by clinical staff (as defined at § 512.310) under the direction of and incident to the services of the Managing Clinician who is an ETC Participant. The kidney disease patient education services may be furnished only by qualified staff (as defined at § 512.310). Beginning MY5, only clinical staff that are not leased from or otherwise provided by an ESRD facility or related entity may furnish kidney disease patient education services pursuant to the waiver described in this section.

(2) CMS waives the requirement that kidney disease patient education services are covered only for Stage IV chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients under section 1861(ggg)(1)(A) of the Act and § 410.48(b)(1) of this chapter to permit beneficiaries diagnosed with CKD Stage V or within the first 6 months of starting dialysis to receive kidney disease patient education services.

(3) CMS waives the requirement that the content of kidney disease patient education services include the management of co-morbidities, including for the purpose of delaying the need for dialysis, under § 410.48(d)(1) of this chapter when such services are furnished to beneficiaries with CKD Stage V or ESRD, unless such content is relevant for the beneficiary.

(4) CMS waives the requirement that an outcomes assessment designed to measure beneficiary knowledge about CKD and its treatment be performed as part of a kidney disease patient education service under § 410.48(d)(5)(iii) of this chapter, provided that such outcomes assessment is performed by qualified staff within one month of the final kidney disease patient education service.

(5) Beginning the upon the expiration of the Public Health Emergency (PHE) for the COVID-19 pandemic, CMS waives the geographic and site of service originating site requirements in sections 1834(m)(4)(B) and 1834(m)(4)(C) of the Act and § 410.78(b)(3) and (4) of this chapter for purposes of kidney disease patient education services furnished by qualified staff via telehealth in accordance with this section, regardless of the location of the beneficiary or qualified staff. Beginning the upon the expiration of the Public Health Emergency (PHE) for the COVID-19 pandemic, CMS also waives the requirement in section 1834(m)(2)(B) of the Act and § 414.65(b) of this chapter that CMS pay a facility fee to the originating site with respect to telehealth services furnished to a beneficiary in accordance with this section at an originating site that is not one of the locations specified in § 410.78(b)(3) of this chapter.

(c)(1) For kidney disease patient education services furnished on or after January 1, 2022, an ETC Participant may reduce or waive the 20 percent coinsurance requirement under section 1833 of the Act if all of the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The individual or entity that furnished the kidney disease patient education services is qualified staff.

(ii) The qualified staff are not leased from or otherwise provided by an ESRD facility or related entity.

(iii) The kidney disease patient education services were furnished to a beneficiary described in § 410.48(b) or § 512.397(b)(2) who did not have secondary insurance that provides cost-sharing support for kidney disease patient education services on the date the services were furnished.

(iv) The kidney disease patient education services were furnished in compliance with the applicable provisions of § 410.48 and § 512.397(b).

(v) The ETC Participant bears the full cost of the reduction or waiver of the 20 percent coinsurance requirement under section 1833 of the Act. The reduction or waiver of the 20 percent coinsurance requirement under section 1833 of the Act shall not be financed by a third party, including but not limited to an ESRD facility or related entity.

(2) The ETC Participant must maintain and provide the government with access to records of the following information in accordance with § 512.135(b) and (c):

(i) The identity of the qualified staff who furnished the kidney disease patient education services for which the coinsurance was reduced or waived and the date such services were furnished.

(ii) The identity of the beneficiary who received the kidney disease patient education services for which the coinsurance was reduced or waived.

(iii) Evidence that the beneficiary who received the kidney disease patient education services coinsurance waiver was eligible to receive the kidney disease patient education services under the ETC Model and did not have secondary insurance that provides cost-sharing support for kidney disease patient education services.

(iv) The amount of the kidney disease patient education coinsurance reduction or waiver provided by the ETC Participant.

(3) The Federal anti-kickback statute safe harbor for CMS-sponsored model patient incentives (42 CFR 1001.952(ii)(2)) is available to protect the kidney disease patient education coinsurance waivers that satisfy the requirements of such safe harbor and paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
