
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Care Infrastructure and Model Programs
#### PART 512 - RADIATION ONCOLOGY MODEL AND END STAGE RENAL DISEASE TREATMENT CHOICES MODEL
##### Subpart C - ESRD Treatment Choices Model
###### Performance Payment Adjustment
####### ยง 512.390 Notification, data sharing, and targeted review.
######## Targeted review process.

(c)An ETC Participant may request a targeted review of the calculation of the MPS. Requests for targeted review are limited to the calculation of the MPS, and may not be submitted in regards to: The methodology used to determine the MPS; or the establishment of the home dialysis rate methodology, transplant rate methodology, achievement and improvement benchmarks and benchmarking methodology, or PPA amounts. The process for targeted reviews is as follows:

(1) An ETC Participant has 90 days (or a later date specified by CMS) to submit a request for a targeted review, which begins on the day CMS makes available the MPS.

(2) CMS will respond to each request for targeted review timely submitted and determine whether a targeted review is warranted.

(3) The ETC Participant may include additional information in support of the request for targeted review at the time the request is submitted. If CMS requests additional information from the ETC Participant, it must be provided and received within 30 days of the request. Non-responsiveness to the request for additional information may result in the closure of the targeted review request.

(4) If, upon completion of a targeted review, CMS finds that there was an error in the calculation of the ETC Participant's MPS such that an incorrect PPA has been applied during the PPA period, CMS shall notify the ETC Participant and must resolve any resulting discrepancy in payment that arises from the application of an incorrect PPA in a time and manner determined by CMS.

(5) Decisions based on targeted review are final, and there is no further review or appeal.
