
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter I - Basic Health Program
#### PART 600 - ADMINISTRATION, ELIGIBILITY, ESSENTIAL HEALTH BENEFITS, PERFORMANCE STANDARDS, SERVICE DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS, PREMIUM AND COST SHARING, ALLOTMENTS, AND RECONCILATION
##### Subpart B - Establishment and Certification of State Basic Health Programs
###### § 600.145 State program administration and operation.
####### Core operations.

(f)A State operating a BHP must perform all of the following core operating functions:

(1) Eligibility determinations as specified in § 600.320.

(2) Eligibility appeals as specified in § 600.335.

(3) Contracting with standard health plan offerors as specified in § 600.410.

(4) Oversight and financial integrity including, but not limited to, operation of the Trust Fund specified at §§ 600.705 and 600.710, compliance with annual reporting at § 600.170, and providing data required by § 600.610 for Federal funding and reconciliation processes.

(5) Consumer assistance as required in § 600.150.

(6) Extending protections to American Indian/Alaska Natives specified at § 600.160, as well as comply with the Civil Rights and nondiscrimination provisions specified at § 600.165.

(7) Data collection and reporting as necessary for efficient and effective operation of the program and as specified by HHS to support program oversight.

(8) If necessary, program termination procedures at § 600.145.
