
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter I - Basic Health Program
#### PART 600 - ADMINISTRATION, ELIGIBILITY, ESSENTIAL HEALTH BENEFITS, PERFORMANCE STANDARDS, SERVICE DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS, PREMIUM AND COST SHARING, ALLOTMENTS, AND RECONCILATION
##### Subpart D - Eligibility and Enrollment
###### ยง 600.305 Eligible individuals.
####### Eligibility standards

(a)The State must determine individuals eligible to enroll in a standard health plan if they:

(1) Are residents of the State.

(2) Have household income which exceeds 133 percent but does not exceed 200 percent of the FPL for the applicable family size, or, in the case of an individual who is a lawfully present non-citizen, ineligible for Medicaid or CHIP due to such immigration status, whose household income is between zero and 200 percent of the FPL for the applicable family size.

(3) Are not eligible to enroll in minimum essential coverage (other than a standard health plan). If an individual meets all other eligibility standards, and-

(i) Is eligible for, or enrolled in, coverage that does not meet the definition of minimum essential coverage, including Medicaid that is not minimum essential coverage, the individual is eligible to enroll in a standard health plan without regard to eligibility or enrollment in Medicaid; or

(ii) Is eligible for Employer Sponsored Insurance (ESI) that is unaffordable (as determined under section 36B(c)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code), the individual is eligible to enroll in a standard health plan.

(4) Are 64 years of age or younger.

(5) Are either a citizen or lawfully present non-citizen.

(6) Are not incarcerated, other than during a period pending disposition of charges.
