
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter V - Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - OIG Authorities
#### PART 1001 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY - MEDICARE AND STATE HEALTH CARE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Permissive Exclusions
###### ยง 1001.952 Exceptions.
####### Arrangements for patient engagement and support to improve quality, health outcomes, and efficiency.

(hh)As used in section 1128B of the Act, "remuneration" does not include a patient engagement tool or support furnished by a VBE participant to a patient in the target patient population of a value-based arrangement to which the VBE participant is a party if all of the conditions in paragraphs (hh)(1) through (9) of this section are met:

(1) The VBE participant is not:

(i) A pharmaceutical manufacturer, distributor, or wholesaler;

(ii) A pharmacy benefit manager;

(iii) A laboratory company;

(iv) A pharmacy that primarily compounds drugs or primarily dispenses compounded drugs;

(v) A manufacturer of a device or medical supply, unless the patient engagement tool or support is digital health technology;

(vi) An entity or individual that sells or rents durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, or supplies covered by a Federal health care program (other than a pharmacy, a manufacturer of a device or medical supply, or a physician, provider, or other entity that primarily furnishes services);

(vii) A medical device distributor or wholesaler that is not otherwise a manufacturer of a device or medical supply; or

(viii) A manufacturer of a device or medical supply that was obligated under 42 CFR 403.906 to report one or more ownership or investment interests held by a physician or an immediate family member during the preceding calendar year, or that reasonably anticipates that it will be obligated to report one or more ownership or investment interests held by a physician or an immediate family member during the present calendar year, even if the patient engagement tool or support is digital health technology (for purposes of this paragraph, the terms "ownership or investment interest," "physician," and "immediate family member" have the same meaning as set forth in 42 CFR 403.902).

(2) The patient engagement tool or support is furnished directly to the patient (or the patient's caregiver, family member, or other individual acting on the patient's behalf) by a VBE participant that is a party to the value-based arrangement or its eligible agent.

(3) The patient engagement tool or support:

(i) Is an in-kind item, good, or service;

(ii) That has a direct connection to the coordination and management of care of the target patient population;

(iii) Does not include any cash or cash equivalent;

(iv) Does not result in medically unnecessary or inappropriate items or services reimbursed in whole or in part by a Federal health care program;

(v) Is recommended by the patient's licensed health care professional; and

(vi) Advances one or more of the following goals:

(A) Adherence to a treatment regimen determined by the patient's licensed health care professional.

(B) Adherence to a drug regimen determined by the patient's licensed health care professional.

(C) Adherence to a followup care plan established by the patient's licensed health care professional.

(D) Prevention or management of a disease or condition as directed by the patient's licensed health care professional.

(E) Ensure patient safety.

(4) The patient engagement tool or support is not funded or contributed by:

(i) A VBE participant that is not a party to the applicable value-based arrangement; or

(ii) An entity listed in paragraph (hh)(1) of this section.

(5) The aggregate retail value of patient engagement tools and supports furnished to a patient by a VBE participant on an annual basis does not exceed $500. The monetary cap set forth in this paragraph (hh)(5) is adjusted each calendar year to the nearest whole dollar by the increase in the Consumer Price Index-Urban All Items (CPI-U) for the 12-month period ending the preceding September 30. OIG will publish guidance after September 30 of each year reflecting the increase in the CPI-U for the 12-month period ending September 30 and the new monetary cap applicable for the following calendar year.

(6) The VBE participant or any eligible agent does not exchange or use the patient engagement tools or supports to market other reimbursable items or services or for patient recruitment purposes.

(7) For a period of at least 6 years, the VBE participant makes available to the Secretary, upon request, all materials and records sufficient to establish that the patient engagement tool or support was distributed in a manner that meets the conditions of this paragraph (hh).

(8) The availability of a tool or support is not determined in a manner that takes into account the type of insurance coverage of the patient.

(9) For purposes of this paragraph (hh), the following definitions apply:
