
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter V - Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - OIG Authorities
#### PART 1001 - PROGRAM INTEGRITY - MEDICARE AND STATE HEALTH CARE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Notice and Appeals
###### § 1001.2003 Notice of proposal to exclude.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if the OIG proposes to exclude an individual or entity in accordance with § 1001.901, § 1001.951, § 1001.1601, or § 1001.1701, it will send a written notice of proposal to exclude to the affected individual or entity. The written notice will provide the same information set forth in § 1001.2002(c). If an entity has a provider agreement under section 1866 of the Act, and the OIG also proposes to terminate that agreement in accordance with section 1866(b)(2)(C) of the Act, the notice will so indicate. The exclusion will be effective 60 days after the receipt of the notice (as defined in § 1005.2 of this chapter) unless, within that period, the individual or entity files a written request for a hearing in accordance with part 1005 of this chapter. Such request must set forth-

(1) The specific issues or statements in the notice with which the individual or entity disagrees;

(2) The basis for that disagreement;

(3) The defenses on which reliance is intended;

(4) Any reasons why the proposed length of exclusion should be modified; and

(5) Reasons why the health or safety of individuals receiving services under Medicare or any of the State health care programs does not warrant the exclusion going into effect prior to the completion of an administrative law judge (ALJ) proceeding in accordance with part 1005 of this chapter.

(b) If the individual or entity makes a timely written request for a hearing and the OIG has determined that the health or safety of individuals receiving services under Medicare or any of the State health care programs does not warrant immediate exclusion, an exclusion will only go into effect as of the date of the ALJ's decision, if the ALJ upholds the decision to exclude.

(c) If, prior to issuing a notice of proposal to exclude under paragraph (a) of this section, the OIG determines that the health or safety of individuals receiving services under Medicare or any of the State health care programs warrants the exclusion taking place prior to the completion of an ALJ proceeding in accordance with part 1005 of this chapter, the OIG will proceed under §§ 1001.2001 and 1001.2002.
