
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter V - Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - OIG Authorities
#### PART 1003 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart B - CMPs, Assessments, and Exclusions for False or Fraudulent Claims and Other Similar Misconduct
###### § 1003.210 Amount of penalties and assessments.
####### Penalties.

(a)(1) Except as provided in this section, the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for each individual violation that is subject to a determination under this subpart.

(2) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $15,000 for each person with respect to whom a determination was made that false or misleading information was given under § 1003.200(b)(2).

(3) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 per day for each day that the prohibited relationship described in § 1003.200(b)(3) occurs.

(4) For each individual violation of § 1003.200(b)(4), the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for each separately billable or non-separately-billable item or service provided, furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an excluded individual or entity.

(5) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $2,000 for each bill or request for payment for items and services furnished to a hospital patient in violation of § 1003.200(b)(5).

(6) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $50,000 for each false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in violation of § 1003.200(b)(7).

(7) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $50,000 for each false record or statement in violation of § 1003.200(b)(9).

(8) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 for each item or service related to an overpayment that is not reported and returned in accordance with section 1128J(d) of the Act in violation of § 1003.200(b)(8).

(9) The OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $15,000 for each day of failure to grant timely access in violation of § 1003.200(b)(10).

(10) For each false certification in violation of § 1003.200(c), the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than the greater of-

(i) $5,000; or

(ii) Three times the amount of Medicare payments for home health services that are made with regard to the false certification of eligibility by a physician, as prohibited by section 1814(a)(2)(C) or 1835(a)(2)(A) of the Act.

(11) For each false certification in violation of § 1003.200(d), the OIG may impose a penalty of not more than-

(i) $1,000 with respect to an individual who willfully and knowingly falsely certifies a material and false statement in a resident assessment; and

(ii) $5,000 with respect to an individual who willfully and knowingly causes another individual to falsely certify a material and false statement in a resident assessment.
