
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter V - Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - OIG Authorities
#### PART 1004 - IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS ON HEALTH CARE PRACTITIONERS AND PROVIDERS OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES BY A QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - QIO Responsibilities
###### § 1004.30 Basic responsibilities.

(a) The QIO must use its authority or influence to enlist the support of other professional or government agencies to ensure that each practitioner or other person complies with the obligations specified in § 1004.10.

(b) When the QIO identifies situations where an obligation specified in § 1004.10 is violated, it will afford the practitioner or other person reasonable notice and opportunity for discussion and, if appropriate, a suggested method for correcting the situation and a time period for a corrective action in accordance with §§ 1004.40 and 1004.60.

(c) The QIO must submit a report to the OIG after the notice and opportunity provided under paragraph (b) of this section and, if appropriate, the opportunity to enter into and complete a corrective action plan (CAP) if the QIO finds that the practitioner or other person has-

(1) Failed substantially to comply with any obligation in a substantial number of admissions; or

(2) Grossly and flagrantly violated any obligation in one or more instances.

(d) The QIO report to the OIG must comply with the provisions of § 1004.80.

(e) If a practitioner or other person relocates to another QIO area prior to a finding of a violation or sanction recommendation, and the originating QIO-

(1) Is able to make a finding, the originating QIO must, as appropriate, close the case or forward a sanction recommendation to the OIG; or

(2) Cannot make a finding, the originating QIO must forward all documentation regarding the case to the QIO with jurisdiction, and notify the practitioner or other person of this action.

(f) The QIO must deny payment for services or items furnished or ordered (or at the medical direction or on the prescription of an excluded physician) by an excluded practitioner or other person when the QIO identifies the services or items. It must report the findings to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
