
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter V - Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - OIG Authorities
#### PART 1006 - INVESTIGATIONAL INQUIRIES
##### ยง 1006.4 Procedures for investigational inquiries.

(a) Testimony at investigational inquiries will be taken under oath or affirmation.

(b) Investigational inquiries are non-public investigatory proceedings. Attendance of non-witnesses is within the discretion of the OIG, except that-

(1) A witness is entitled to be accompanied, represented and advised by an attorney; and

(2) Representatives of the OIG are entitled to attend and ask questions.

(c) A witness will have an opportunity to clarify his or her answers on the record following the questions by the OIG.

(d) Any claim of privilege must be asserted by the witness on the record.

(e) Objections must be asserted on the record. Errors of any kind that might be corrected if promptly presented will be deemed to be waived unless reasonable objection is made at the investigational inquiry. Except where the objection is on the grounds of privilege, the question will be answered on the record, subject to the objection.

(f) If a witness refuses to answer any question not privileged or to produce requested documents or items, or engages in conduct likely to delay or obstruct the investigational inquiry, the OIG may seek enforcement of the subpoena under ยง 1006.5.

(g)(1) The proceedings will be recorded and transcribed.

(2) The witness is entitled to a copy of the transcript, upon payment of prescribed costs, except that, for good cause, the witness may be limited to inspection of the official transcript of his or her testimony.

(3)(i) The transcript will be submitted to the witness for signature.

(ii) Where the witness will be provided a copy of the transcript, the transcript will be submitted to the witness for signature. The witness may submit to the OIG written proposed corrections to the transcript, with such corrections attached to the transcript. If the witness does not return a signed copy of the transcript or proposed corrections within 30 days of its being submitted to him or her for signature, the witness will be deemed to have agreed that the transcript is true and accurate.

(iii) Where, as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the witness is limited to inspecting the transcript, the witness will have the opportunity at the time of inspection to propose corrections to the transcript, with corrections attached to the transcript. The witness will also have the opportunity to sign the transcript. If the witness does not sign the transcript or offer corrections within 30 days of receipt of notice of the opportunity to inspect the transcript, the witness will be deemed to have agreed that the transcript is true and accurate.

(iv) The OIG's proposed corrections the record of transcript will be attached to the transcript.

(h) Testimony and other evidence obtained in an investigational inquiry may be used by the OIG or DHHS in any of its activities, and may be used or offered into evidence in any administrative or judicial proceeding.
