
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 71 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE
##### Subpart A - Definitions and General Provisions
###### ยง 71.3 Designation of yellow fever vaccination centers; Validation stamps.
####### Designation of yellow fever vaccination centers.

(a)(1) The Director is responsible for the designation of yellow fever vaccination centers authorized to issue certificates of vaccination. This responsibility is delegated by the Director to a State or territorial health department with respect to yellow fever vaccination activities of non-Federal medical, public health facilities, and licensed physicians functioning within the respective jurisdictions of a State or territorial health department. Designation may be made upon application and presentation of evidence satisfactory to a State or territorial health department that the applicant has adequate facilities and professionally trained personnel for the handling, storage, and administration of a safe, potent, and pure yellow fever vaccine. Medical facilities of Federal agencies are authorized to obtain yellow fever vaccine without being designated as a yellow fever vaccination center by the Director.

(2) A designated yellow fever vaccination center shall comply with the instruction issued by the Director or by a delegated officer or employee of a State or territorial health department for the handling, storage, and administration of yellow fever vaccine. If a designated center fails to comply with such instruction, after notice to the center, the Director or, for non-Federal centers, a State or territorial health department, may revoke designation.
