
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 71 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE
##### Subpart D - Health Measures at U.S. Ports: Communicable Diseases
###### ยง 71.30 Payment for care and treatment.

(a) The Director may authorize payment for the care and treatment of individuals subject to medical examination, quarantine, isolation, and conditional release, subject to paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.

(b) Payment for care and treatment shall be in the Director's sole discretion and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) Payment shall be secondary to the obligation of the United States or any third-party (including any State or local governmental entity, private insurance carrier, or employer), under any other law or contractual agreement, to pay for such care and treatment, and shall be paid by the Director only after all third-party payers have made payment in satisfaction of their obligations.

(d) Payment may include costs for providing ambulance or other medical transportation when such services are deemed necessary by the Director for the individual's care and treatment.

(e) Payment shall be limited to those amounts the hospital, medical facility, or medical transportation service would customarily bill the Medicare system using the International Classification of Diseases, Clinical Modification (ICD-CM), and relevant regulations promulgated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in existence at the time of billing.

(f) For quarantinable communicable diseases, payment shall be limited to costs for services and items reasonable and necessary for the care and treatment of the individual for the time period beginning when the Director refers the individual to the hospital or medical facility and ends when, as determined by the Director, the period of apprehension, quarantine, isolation, or conditional release expires.

(g) For diseases other than those described in paragraph (f) of this section, such payment shall be limited to costs for services and items reasonable and necessary for care and treatment of the individual for the time period that begins when the Director refers the individual to the hospital or medical facility and ends when the individual's condition is diagnosed, as determined by the Director, as an illness other than a quarantinable communicable disease.

(h) For ambulance or other medical transportation, payment shall be limited to the costs for such services and other items reasonable and necessary for the safe medical transport of the individual.
