
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 71 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE
##### Subpart D - Health Measures at U.S. Ports: Communicable Diseases
###### ยง 71.38 Mandatory reassessment of a Federal order for quarantine, isolation, or conditional release (surveillance).

(a) The Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order) shall reassess the need to continue the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release of an individual no later than 72 hours after the service of the Federal order.

(b) As part of the reassessment, the Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order) shall review all records considered in issuing the Federal order, including travel records, records evidencing exposure or infection with a quarantinable communicable disease, as well as any relevant new information.

(c) As part of the reassessment, and where applicable, the Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order) shall consider and make a determination regarding whether less restrictive alternatives would adequately serve to protect the public health.

(d) At the conclusion of the reassessment, the Director (excluding the CDC official who issued the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release order) shall promptly issue a written Federal order directing that the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release be continued, modified, or rescinded.

(e) In the event that the Director orders that the quarantine, isolation, or conditional release be continued or modified, the written Federal order shall explain the process for requesting a medical review under this part.

(f) The Director's written Federal order shall be promptly served on the individual, except that the Federal order may be served by publication or by posting in a conspicuous location if applicable to a group of individuals and individual service would be impracticable.

(g) The Director shall arrange for translation or interpretation services of the Federal order as needed.
