
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 71 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE
##### Subpart F - Importations
###### ยง 71.53 Requirements for importers of nonhuman primates.
####### Documentation.

(h)An importer must develop, and document compliance with, a written policy that states imported NHPs, including their offspring, will only be used and distributed for permitted purposes.

(1) An importer must collect or create a record of the intended purpose of importation for each imported NHP and the purpose must comply with one of the permitted purposes. An importer must retain written certifications demonstrating that the NHPs and their offspring will continue to be used for permitted purposes for three years after the distribution or transfer of the NHP.

(2) An importer must retain records regarding each distribution of imported NHPs. Each record must include the identity of any recipients, the number and identity of each NHP in each shipment or sale, and the dates of each shipment or sale, for three years after the distribution or transfer of the NHP.

(3) An importer must maintain these records in an organized manner, either electronically or in a central location that is at or in close proximity to the NHP facility to allow HHS/CDC to easily inspect the records during HHS/CDC site visits during regular business hours or within one hour of such visits. If records are maintained electronically, they must be time-dated in a manner than cannot be altered, and redundant back-up copies must be made in a manner that protects against loss.

(4) Before distributing or transferring an imported NHP, an importer must:

(i) Communicate to the recipients of NHPs, in writing, the restrictions and definitions of permitted purposes; and

(ii) Obtain written certifications from the intended recipient that the NHPs will be used and distributed only for permitted purposes.
