
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 71 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE
##### Subpart F - Importations
###### ยง 71.53 Requirements for importers of nonhuman primates.
####### Health reporting requirements for nonhuman primates.

(m)(1) An importer must notify HHS/CDC of the events listed in this paragraph (m) by telephone, text, or email.

(2) An importer must notify HHS/CDC within 24 hours of the occurrence of any morbidity or mortality of NHPs in quarantine facilities, or following a zoo-to-zoo or laboratory-to-laboratory transfer.

(3) For any morbidity or mortality from time of embarkation from country of origin to release from HHS/CDC quarantine, an importer must report the circumstances to HHS/CDC promptly, including the cause of death for each NHP.

(4) Upon completion of the quarantine period and before an importer releases any NHP, cohort, or mixed cohort from quarantine, the importer must ensure that the quarantine facility's licensed veterinarian notifies HHS/CDC in writing of the health status of the shipment.

(5) An importer must notify HHS/CDC within 24 hours if any NHP tests positive for filovirus virus antigen or antibody.

(6) An importer must report to HHS/CDC within 24 hours, any positive or suspicious TST results, necropsy findings, or laboratory results. Any report required under this section must include a copy or summary of the individual NHP's health records.
