
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 71 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE
##### Subpart F - Importations
###### ยง 71.53 Requirements for importers of nonhuman primates.
####### Laboratory-to-laboratory transfers.

(q)(1) A laboratory transferring NHPs on an established research protocol from its foreign-based facility to its U.S.-based laboratory must comply with all the elements listed in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), and (n) of this section; and paragraphs (m)(1), (m)(2), (m)(5), and (m)(6) of this section.

(2) If a lab is receiving one or more NHPs for purposes related to an ongoing research project from another established research facility outside the United States, the recipient facility must, before the transfer, submit the following to HHS/CDC for approval:

(i) A copy of each NHP's veterinary medical records, including regular testing for TB from the previous lab for HHS/CDC's approval. The medical record should include a positive identification of the NHP, such as a tattoo, microchip, or photograph.

(ii) A copy of a current health certificate(s), including documentation of a negative TST, signed by a state-licensed veterinarian within 14 days of the transfer stating that the NHP(s) appear healthy and are free from communicable diseases; and

(iii) Documentation of the ongoing IACUC-approved research project and the reason the NHP needs to be transported to the U.S. laboratory facility.

(iv) A specific itinerary with names, dates, flights, times, airports, seaports, and responsible parties to contact at every step of travel, including all ground transportation.

(3) Persons importing live NHPs that are transferred from one lab to another, who are not able to meet the requirements listed in paragraphs (q)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, must comply with all the elements in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m), and (n) of this section.
