
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 73 - SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 73.6 Exemptions for overlap select agents and toxins.
###### et seq.

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136).

(d) The HHS Secretary, after consultation with Administrator, may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains an overlap select agent or toxin, may be exempted when such product is being used in an investigation authorized under any Federal Act and additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect public health and safety.

(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit a completed APHIS/CDC Form 5.

(2) The HHS Secretary shall make a determination regarding the application within 14 calendar days after receipt, provided the application meets all of the requirements of this section and the application establishes that the investigation has been authorized under the cited Act. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.

(3) The applicant must notify CDC or APHIS when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(e) The HHS Secretary may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements of this part based on a determination that the exemption is necessary to provide for the timely participation of the individual or entity in response to a domestic or foreign public health emergency. The HHS Secretary may extend the exemption once for additional 30 days.

(f) Upon request of the Administrator, the HHS Secretary may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for 30 calendar days if the Administrator has granted the exemption for agricultural emergency. The HHS Secretary may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 calendar days.
