
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 73 - SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 73.9 Responsible Official.
###### Bacillus anthracis,,Bacillus cereus,anthracis,",Clostridium, Burkholderia,mallei, Burkholderia,pseudomallei,Francisella tularensis,,Yersinia pestis.

(1) The identification of any of the following select agents or toxins must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail:,BiovarBotulinum neurotoxins, Botulinum neurotoxin producing species ofEbola viruses, , Marburg virus, Variola major virus (Smallpox virus), Variola minor (Alastrim), orThe final disposition of the agent or toxin must be reported by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within seven calendar days after identification. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for three years.

(2) To report the identification and final disposition of any other select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within seven calendar days after identification. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for three years.

(3) Less stringent reporting may be required based on extraordinary circumstances, such as a widespread outbreak.

(d) The Responsible Official must report the identification and final disposition of any select agent or toxin contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing. To report the identification and final disposition of a select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for three years.
