
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 73 - SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 73.19 Notification of theft, loss, or release.

(a) Upon discovery of the theft or loss of a select agent or toxin, an individual or entity must immediately notify CDC or APHIS and appropriate Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies. Thefts or losses must be reported even if the select agent or toxin is subsequently recovered or the responsible parties are identified.

(1) The theft or loss of a select agent or toxin must be reported immediately by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The following information must be provided:

(i) The name of the select agent or toxin and any identifying information (e.g., strain or other characterization information),

(ii) An estimate of the quantity lost or stolen,

(iii) An estimate of the time during which the theft or loss occurred,

(iv) The location (building, room) from which the theft or loss occurred, and

(v) The list of Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies to which the individual or entity reported, or intends to report the theft or loss.

(2) A completed APHIS/CDC Form 3 must submitted within seven calendar days.

(b) Upon discovery of a release of an agent or toxin causing occupational exposure or release of a select agent or toxin outside of the primary barriers of the biocontainment area, an individual or entity must immediately notify CDC or APHIS.

(1) The release of a select agent or toxin must be reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The following information must be provided:

(i) The name of the select agent or toxin and any identifying information (e.g., strain or other characterization information),

(ii) An estimate of the quantity released,

(iii) The time and duration of the release,

(iv) The environment into which the release occurred (e.g., in building or outside of building, waste system),

(v) The location (building, room) from which the release occurred,

(vi) The number of individuals potentially exposed at the entity,

(vii) Actions taken to respond to the release, and

(viii) Hazards posed by the release.

(2) A completed APHIS/CDC Form 3 must be submitted within seven calendar days.
