
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Standards for Accreditation of Educational Programs for Radiographers

The radiographer shall perform effectively by:

1. Applying knowledge of the principles of radiation protection for the patient, self, and others.

2. Applying knowledge of anatomy, positioning, and radiographic techniques to accurately demonstrate anatomical structures on a radiograph.

3. Determining exposure factors to achieve optimum radiographic technique with a minimum of radiation exposure to the patient.

4. Examining radiographs for the purpose of evaluating technique, positioning, and other pertinent technical qualities.

5. Exercising discretion and judgment in the performance of medical imaging procedures.

6. Providing patient care essential to radiologic procedures.

7. Recognizing emergency patient conditions and initiating lifesaving first aid.

1. Accreditation will be granted to the institution that assumes primary responsibility for curriculum planning and selection of course content; coordinates classroom teaching and supervised clinical education; appoints faculty to the program; receives and processes applications for admission; and grants the degree or certificate documenting completion of the program.

2. Educational programs may be established in:

(a) Community and junior colleges, senior colleges, and universities;

(b) Hospitals;

(c) Medical schools;

(d) Postsecondary vocational/technical schools and institutions; and

(e) Other acceptable institutions which meet comparable standards.

3. The sponsoring institutions and affiliate(s) must be accredited by a recognized agency. When the sponsoring institution and affilitate(s) are not so recognized, they may be considered as meeting the requirements of accreditation if the institution meets or exceeds established equivalent standards.
