
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Standards for Accreditation of Educational Programs for Radiographers
###### Reference Materials.

3.Adequate up-to-date scientific books, periodicals, and other reference materials related to the curriculum and profession shall be readily accessible to students.

1. The clinical phase of the educational program shall provide an environment for supervised competency-based clinical education and experience and offer a sufficient and well-balanced variety of radiographic examinations and equipment.

2. An acceptable ratio of students to registered technologists shall be maintained in the clinical teaching environment.

3. A clinical instructor(s), who shall be responsible for supervising students according to objectives, shall be identified for each primary clinical education center.

4. The maximum student enrollment shall not exceed the capacity recommended on the basis of volume and variety of radiographic procedures, resources, and personnel available for teaching purposes.

5. In programs where didactic and clinical experience are not provided in the same institution, accreditation shall be given only to the institution responsible for admissions, curriculum, and academic credit. The accredited institution shall be responsible for coordinating the program and assuring that the activities assigned to the students in the clinical setting are educational. There shall be a uniform contract between the accredited institution and each of its affiliate hospitals, clearly defining the responsibilities and obligations of each.

1. The structure of the curriculum shall be based on not less than two calendar years of full-time study or its equivalent.

2. Instruction shall follow a planned outline that includes:

(a) The assignment of appropriate instructional materials;

(b) Classroom presentations, discussions and demonstrations; and

(c) Examinations in the didactic and clinical aspects of the program.

3. All professional courses, including clinical education, must include specific curriculum content that shall include, but shall not be limited to:

(a) Introduction to radiologic technology;

(b) Medical ethics;

(c) Imaging;

(d) Radiographic processing technique;

(e) Human structure and function;

(f) Medical terminology;

(g) Principals of radiographic exposure;

(h) Radiographic procedures;

(i) Principles of radiation protection;

(j) Radiographic film evaluation;

(k) Methods of patient care;

(l) Pathology;

(m) Radiologic physics; and

(n) Radiation biology.

Related subjects added to the professional curriculum shall meet the requirements of the degree-granting institution.

Financial resources for operation for the educational program shall be assured through regular budgets, gifts, grants, endowments, or fees.
