
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix D to Part 75 - Standards for Accreditation of Educational Programs for Nuclear Medicine Technologists
###### in vivo,in vitro

(k) Nuclear medicineandprocedures;

(l) Radionuclide therapy;

(m) Computer applications; and

(n) Clinical practicum.

3. Assignment of appropriate instructional materials.

4. Classroom presentations, discussions, and demonstrations.

5. Supervised practice, experience, and discussions. This shall include the following:

(a) Patient care and patient recordkeeping;

(b) Participation in the quality assurance program;

(c) The preparation, calculation, identification, administration, and disposal of radiopharmaceuticals;

(d) Radiation safety techniques that will minimize radiation exposure to the patient, public, fellow workers, and self;

(e) The performance of an adequate number and variety of imaging and non-imaging procedures; and

(f) Clinical correlation of nuclear medicine procedures.

6. Evaluation of student's knowledge, problem-solving skills, and motor and clinical competencies.

7. The competencies necessary for graduation.

1. The program must have qualified program officials. Primary responsibilities shall include program development, organization, administration, evaluation, and revision. The following program officials must be identified:
