
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix D to Part 75 - Standards for Accreditation of Educational Programs for Nuclear Medicine Technologists
###### Instructional Resources.

5.Instructional aids such as clinical materials, reference materials, demonstration and other multimedia materials must be provided.

Persons admitted into nuclear medicine technology programs shall have completed high school or its equivalent. They shall have completed postsecondary courses in the following areas:

(1) Human anatomy and physiology;

(2) Physics;

(3) Mathematics;

(4) Medical terminology;

(5) Oral and written communications;

(6) General chemistry; and

(7) Medical ethics.

Prerequisites may be completed during nuclear medicine training. Educational institutions such as junior colleges, universities, and technical vocational institutes may provide these prerequisite courses as part of an integrated program in nuclear medicine technology (i.e., two to four years).

Students may not take the responsibility nor the place of qualified staff. However, students may be permitted to perform procedures after demonstrating proficiency, with careful supervision.

1. Periodic and systematic review of the program's effectiveness must be documented.

2. One element of program evaluation shall be the initial employment of graduates of the program.
