
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix E to Part 75 - Standards for Accreditation of Educational Programs for Radiation Therapy Technologists

1. Educational programs may be established in:

(a) Community and junior colleges, senior colleges, and universities;

(b) Hospitals, clinics, or autonomous radiation oncology centers meeting the criteria for major cancer management centers or meeting demonstrably equivalent standards;

(c) Medical schools; and

(d) Postsecondary vocational/technical schools and institutions.

2. The sponsoring institution and affiliates, if any, must be accredited by recognized agencies or meet equivalent standards. When more than one clinical education center is used, each must meet the standards of a major cancer management center.

3. When didactic preparation and supervised clinical education are not provided in the same institution, accreditation must be obtained by the sponsoring institution for the total program. This institution will be the one responsible for admission, curriculum, and academic credit. The accredited institution shall be responsible for coordinating the program and assuring that the activities assigned to the student in the clinical setting are educational. There shall be a uniform, written, affiliation agreement between the accredited institution and each clinical education center, clearly defining the responsibilities and obligations of each.

Educational programs of 24 months and 12 months or their equivalents may be developed. A 24-month program shall admit those candidates with a high school diploma (or equivalent) as outlined in D.1. The 12-month program shall be designed for those students admitted with backgrounds as outlined in D.2.

Instruction must follow a plan which documents:

1. A structured curriculum with clearly written course syllabi which describe competencies and learning objectives to be achieved. The curriculum shall include but not necessarily be limited to the following:

(a) Orientation to radiation therapy technology;

(b) Medical ethics and law;

(c) Methods of patient care;

(d) Medical terminology;

(e) Human structure and function;

(f) Oncologic pathology;

(g) Radiation oncology;

(h) Radiobiology;

(i) Mathematics;

(j) Radiation physics;

(k) Radiation protection;

(l) Radiation oncology technique;

(m) Radiographic imaging; and

(n) Clinical dosimetry.

2. Assignment of appropriate instructional materials.

3. Classroom presentations, discussions, and demonstrations.

4. Supervised clinical education and laboratory practicum.

5. Evaluation of students to assess knowledge, problem-solving skills, and motor and clinical competencies.

6. Program graduates must demonstrate competencies including, but not limited to, the following:

(a) Practice oral and written communications;

(b) Maintain records of treatment administered;

(c) Perform basic mathematical functions;

(d) Demonstrate knowledge of human structure, function, and pathology;

(e) Demonstrate knowledge of radiation physics in radiation interactions and radiation protection techniques;

(f) Provide basic patient care and cardiopulmonary resuscitation;

(g) Deliver a planned course of radiation therapy;

(h) Verify physician's prescribed course of radiation therapy and recognize errors in computation;

(i) Demonstrate awareness of patterns of physical and emotional stress exhibited by patients;

(j) Produces and utilize immobilization and beam directional devices;

(k) Prepare commonly used brachytherapy sources;

(l) Demonstrate knowledge of methods of calibration of equipment, and quality assurance;

(m) Prepare isodose summations;

(n) Detect malfunctioning equipment;

(o) Apply rules and regulations for radiation safety, and detect defects which might pose a radiation hazard;

(p) Understand the function of equipment and accessories;

(q) Demonstrate knowledge of methods of continuing patient evaluation (follow up);

(r) Apply wedge and compensating filters;

(s) Recognize patients' clinical progress, complications, and demonstrate knowledge of when to withhold treatment until consultation with the physician; and

(t) Interact with patients and families concerning the physical and psychological needs of patients.
