
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix F to Part 75 - Standards for Licensing Radiographers, Nuclear Medicine Technologists, and Radiation Therapy Technologists

The following section describes basic elements to be incorporated in credentialing programs of States that choose to regulate personnel who perform radiologic procedures.

1. Only eligible applicants who have passed the licensure examination shall be licensed as Radiographers, Nuclear Medicine Technologists, or Radiation Therapy Technologists.

2. Licenses shall be renewed at periodic intervals.

1. For regular eligibility to take the licensure examination, applicants shall have successfully completed an accredited program of formal education in radiography, nuclear medicine technology, or radiation therapy technology.

2. Special eligibility to take the licensure examination shall be provided for applicants whose training and/or experience are equal to, or in excess of, those of a graduate of an accredited educational program.

A criterion-referenced examination in radiography, nuclear medicine technology, or radiation therapy technology shall be utilized to test the knowledge and competencies of applicants.

The licensed Radiographer, Nuclear Medicine Technologist, or Radiation Therapy Technologist shall maintain continuing competency in the area in which he/she is practicing.

An organization that seeks to be recognized for the certifying of personnel shall adopt definite policies to ensure validity, objectivity, and fairness in the certifying process. The National Commission for Health Certifying Agencies (NCHCA) has published suitable criteria for a certifying organization to adopt with respect to policies for: (1) Determination of appropriate examination content (but not the actual content for any specific occupation); (2) construction of examinations; (3) administration of examinations; and (4) fulfilling responsibilities to applicants. An organization (whether an NCHCA member or not) that adopts these or equivalent criteria will meet all of the requirements of this section of these standards.
