
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Quarantine, Inspection, Licensing
#### PART 75 - STANDARDS FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR AND THE CREDENTIALING OF RADIOLOGIC PERSONNEL
##### Appendix G to Part 75 - Standards for Licensing Dental Hygienists and Dental Assistants in Dental Radiography

The following section describes basic elements to be incorporated in credentialing programs of States that choose to regulate personnel who perform radiologic procedures.

Currently, Dental Hygienists are credentialed through individual State licensure processes, all of which include assessment of competence in dental radiography. In all States, Dental Hygienists are required to be licensed prior to practicing. The existing State dental hygiene licensure processes meet the intent and purpose of the Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981 and the standards for licensing Dental Hygienists in dental radiography set forth below.

1. To those who have passed a licensure or designated dental radiography examination, a license or permit shall be issued by the State entity responsible for credentialing dental personnel.

2. Licenses or permits shall be renewed at periodic intervals.

1. An individual shall provide proof of graduating student status or graduation from an accredited or approved dental hygiene or dental assisting education program.

2. For dental assistants, special eligibility to take the examination shall be provided to applicants with appropriate combinations of training and/or experience.

A criterion-referenced examination in dental radiography shall be utilized to test the knowledge and competencies of applicants.

The Dental Hygienist or Dental Assistant shall be required to maintain continuing competency in the area in which he/she is practicing.

An organization that seeks to be recognized for the certifying of personnel shall adopt definite policies to ensure validity, objectivity, and fairness in the certifying process. The National Commission for Health Certifying Agencies (NCHCA) has published suitable criteria for a certifying organization to adopt with respect to policies for: (1) Determination of appropriate examination content (but not the actual content for any specific occupation); (2) construction of examinations; (3) administration of examinations; and (4) fulfilling responsibilities to applicants. An organization (whether an NCHCA member or not) that adopts these or equivalent criteria will meet all of the requirements of this section of these standards.
