
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 4 - NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE
##### ยง 4.1 Programs to which these regulations apply.

(a) The regulations of this part govern access to the National Library of Medicine's facilities and library collections and the availability of its bibliographic, reproduction, reference, and related services. These functions are performed by the Library directly for the benefit of the general public and health-sciences professionals as required by sections 465(b) (3)-(6) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 286(b) (3)-(6)).

(b) The regulations of this part do not apply to:

(1) The Library's internal functions relating to the acquisition and preservation of materials and the organization of these materials as required by sections 465(b) (1) and (2) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 286(b) (1) and (2)).

(2) The availability of "records" under the Freedom of Information Act or the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552, 552a). These matters are covered in 45 CFR parts 5 and 5b.

(3) Federal assistance for medical libraries and other purposes which are authorized by sections 469-477 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 286b to 286b-8). (See parts 59a, 61 and 64 of this chapter.)

(4) The availability of facilities, collections, and related services of Regional Medical Libraries established or maintained under the authority in section 475 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 286b-6). (See part 59a, subpart B of this chapter.)
