
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 83 - PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES AS MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL EXPOSURE COHORT UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 83.0 Background information on the procedures in this part.

The Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, as amended ("EEOICPA" or "the Act"), 42 U.S.C. 7384-7385, provides for the payment of compensation benefits to covered employees and, where applicable, survivors of such employees, of DOE, its predecessor agencies and certain of its contractors and subcontractors. Among the types of illnesses for which compensation may be provided are cancers. There are two methods set forth in the statute for claimants to establish that a cancer incurred by a covered worker is compensable under EEOICPA. The first is to establish that the cancer is at least as likely as not related to covered employment at a DOE or Atomic Weapons Employer ("AWE") facility pursuant to guidelines issued by the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), which are found at 42 CFR part 81. The second method to establish that a cancer incurred by a covered worker is compensable under EEOICPA is to establish that the worker is a member of the Special Exposure Cohort ("the Cohort") and suffered a specified cancer after beginning employment at a DOE facility or AWE facility. In Section 3621(14) of EEOICPA (42 U.S.C. 7384l(14)) Congress included certain classes of employees in the Cohort. Section 3626 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7384q) authorizes the addition to the Cohort of other classes of employees. This authority has been delegated to the Secretary of HHS by Executive Order 13179.
