
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 83 - PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES AS MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL EXPOSURE COHORT UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Adding Classes of Employees to the Cohort
###### § 83.11 What happens to petitions that do not satisfy all relevant requirements under §§ 83.7 through 83.9?

(a) NIOSH will notify the petitioner(s) of any requirement that is not met by the petition, assist the petitioner(s) with guidance in developing relevant information, and provide 30 calendar days for the petitioner(s) to revise the petition accordingly.

(b) After 30 calendar days from the date of notification under paragraph (a) of this section, NIOSH will notify any petitioner(s) whose petition remains unsatisfactory of the proposed finding of NIOSH that the petition fails to meet the specified requirements and the basis for this finding.

(c) A petitioner may request in writing a review of a proposed finding within 30 calendar days of notification under paragraph (b) of this section. Petitioners must specify why the proposed finding should be reversed, based on the petition requirements and on the information that the petitioners had already submitted. The request may not include any new information or documentation that was not included in the completed petition. If the petitioner obtains new information within this 30-day period, the petitioner should provide it to NIOSH. NIOSH will consider this new information as a revision of the petition under paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Three HHS personnel, appointed by the Director of NIOSH, who were not involved in developing the proposed finding will complete reviews within 30 work days of the request for such a review. The Director of NIOSH will consider the results of the review and then make a final decision as to whether the petition satisfies the requirements for a petition.

(e) Proposed findings established by NIOSH under paragraph (b) of this section will become final decisions in 31 calendar days if not reviewed under paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) Based on new information, NIOSH may, at its discretion, reconsider a decision that a petition does not satisfy the requirements for a petition.

(g) A petitioner whose petition has been found not to satisfy the requirements for a petition under either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section may submit to NIOSH a new petition for the identical class of employees at any time thereafter on the basis of new information not provided to NIOSH in the original petition. In such a case, the petitioner is required to fully re-address all the requirements of §§ 83.7-83.9 in the petition.
