
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 83 - PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES AS MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL EXPOSURE COHORT UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Adding Classes of Employees to the Cohort
###### § 83.16 How will the Secretary decide the outcome(s) of a petition?

(a) The Director of NIOSH will propose a decision to add or deny adding any class or classes of employees to the Cohort, including an iteration of the relevant criteria, as specified under § 83.13(c), and a summary of the information and findings on which the proposed decision is based. This proposed decision will take into consideration the evaluations of NIOSH and the report and recommendations of the Board, and may also take into consideration information presented or submitted to the Board and the deliberations of the Board. In the case of a petition that NIOSH has determined encompasses more than one class of employees, the Director of NIOSH will issue a separate proposed decision for each separate class of employees.

(b) The Secretary will make the final decision to add or deny adding a class to the Cohort, including the definition of the class, after considering information and recommendations provided to the Secretary by the Director of NIOSH and the Board. HHS will transmit a report of the decision to the petitioner(s), including an iteration of the relevant criteria, as specified under § 83.13(c), and a summary of the information and findings on which the decision is based. HHS will also publish a notice summarizing the decision in the

(c) If, under § 83.15(e), the Board recommends that the Secretary designate a class covered by the petition as an addition to the Cohort, and if, under paragraph (b) of § 83.16, the Secretary decides to deny adding the class, as defined by the Board, to the Cohort, then the Secretary will submit to Congress a determination that the statutory criteria specified under 42 U.S.C. 7384q(b)(1) and (2) have not been met for adding the class to the Cohort. The Secretary will submit this determination to Congress within 30 calendar days following receipt by the Secretary of the recommendation of the Board.
