
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 83 - PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING CLASSES OF EMPLOYEES AS MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL EXPOSURE COHORT UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Adding Classes of Employees to the Cohort
###### § 83.18 How can petitioners obtain an administrative review of a final decision by the Secretary?

(a) HHS will allow petitioners to contest only a final decision to deny adding a class to the Cohort or a health endangerment determination under § 83.13(c)(3)(ii). Such challenges must be submitted in writing within 30 calendar days and must include evidence that the final decision relies on a record of either substantial factual errors or substantial errors in the implementation of the procedures of this part. Challenges may not introduce new information or documentation concerning the petition or the NIOSH or Board evaluation(s) that was not submitted or presented by the petitioner(s) or others to NIOSH or to the Board prior to the Board's issuing its recommendations under § 83.15.

(b) A panel of three HHS personnel, independent of NIOSH and appointed by the Secretary, will conduct an administrative review based on a challenge submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and provide recommendations of the panel to the Secretary concerning the merits of the challenge and the resolution of issues contested by the challenge. Reviews by the panel will consider, in addition to the views and information submitted by the petitioner(s) in the challenge, the NIOSH evaluation report(s), the report containing the recommendations of the Board issued under § 83.15, and recommendations of the Director of NIOSH to the Secretary. The reviews may also consider information presented or submitted to the Board and the deliberations of the Board prior to the issuance of the recommendations of the Board under § 83.15. The panel shall consider whether HHS substantially complied with the procedures of this part, the factual accuracy of the information supporting the final decision, and the principal findings and recommendations of NIOSH and those of the Board issued under § 83.15.

(c) The Secretary will decide whether or not to revise a final decision contested by the petitioner(s) under this section after considering information and recommendations provided to the Secretary by the Director of NIOSH, the Board, and from the HHS administrative review conducted under paragraph (b) of this section. HHS will transmit a report of the decision to the petitioner(s).

(d) If the Secretary decides under paragraph (c) of this section to change a designation under § 83.17(a) of this part or a determination under § 83.16(c) of this part, the Secretary will transmit to Congress a report providing such change to the designation or determination, including an iteration of the relevant criteria, as specified under § 83.13(c), and a summary of the information and findings on which the decision is based. HHS will also publish a notice summarizing the decision in the

(e) A new designation of the Secretary under this section will take effect 30 calendar days after the date on which the report of the Secretary under paragraph (d) of this section is submitted to Congress, unless Congress takes an action that reverses or expedites the designation. Such new designations and related congressional actions will be further reported by the Secretary pursuant to paragraphs (d) and (e) of § 83.17.
