
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Application for Approval
###### ยง 84.12 Delivery of respirators and components by applicant; requirements.

(a) Each applicant shall, when an application is filed pursuant to ยง 84.10, be advised by the Institute of the total number of respirators and component parts required for testing.

(b) The applicant will deliver, at his or her own expense, the number of completely assembled respirators and component parts required for their examination, inspection, and testing, to the National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory.

(c) Respirators and component parts submitted for approval must be made from materials specified in the application.

(d) One completely assembled respirator approved under the provisions of this part may be retained by the Institute as a laboratory exhibit, the remaining respirators may be returned to the applicant at his own expense, upon written request within 30 days after notice of approval. If no such request is made, the respirators will be disposed of by the Institute in such manner as it deems appropriate.

(e) Where a respirator fails to meet the requirements for approval set forth in this part, all respirators and components delivered in accordance with this section may be returned to the applicant at his own expense, upon written request within 30 days after notice of disapproval. If no such request is made, the respirators will be disposed of by the Institute in such manner as it deems appropriate.
