
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Approval and Disapproval
###### ยง 84.31 Certificates of approval; contents.

(a) The certificate of approval shall contain a classification and a description of the respirator or combination of respirators for which it is issued, as provided in this part.

(b) The certificate of approval shall specifically set forth any restrictions or limitations on the respirator's use in hazardous atmospheres.

(c) Each certificate of approval shall be accompanied by the drawings and specifications (and lists thereof) submitted by the applicant in accordance with ยง 84.11. These drawings and specifications shall be referenced in the certificate of approval, and shall be maintained by the applicant. The drawings and specifications listed in each certificate of approval shall set forth in detail the design and construction requirements which shall be met by the applicant during commercial production of the respirator.

(d) Each certificate of approval shall be accompanied by a reproduction of the approval label design to be employed by the applicant with each approved respirator, as provided in ยง 84.33.

(e) No test data or specific laboratory findings will accompany any certificate of approval, however, the Institute will release pertinent test data and specific findings upon written request by the applicant, or as required by statute or regulation.

(f) Each certificate of approval shall also contain the approved quality control plan as specified in ยง 84.42.
