
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Quality Control
###### ยง 84.41 Quality control plans; contents.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) Each provision for incoming and final inspection in the quality control plan shall include a procedure for the selection of a sample of respirators and the components thereof for testing, in accordance with procedures set forth in Military Standard MIL-STD-414, 11 June 1957, including Change Notice No. 1, "Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Variables for Percent Defective," or an approved equivalent sampling procedure, or an approved combination of sampling procedures. The procedure of Military Standard MIL-STD-105D, 29 April 1963, "Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Attributes," is an example of an equivalent sampling procedure. MIL-STD-414 is incorporated by reference and has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from DODSSP, Standardization Document Order Desk, 700 Robbins Avenue, Bldg. 4D, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094. Copies may be inspected at the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies of MIL-STD-105D may be inspected or obtained from the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236. Incoming bulk raw material inspection or verification of specification, and in-process inspection shall be sufficient to ensure control of product quality through the manufacturing cycle.

(c) The sampling procedure shall include a list of the characteristics to be tested by the applicant or his agent.

(d) The characteristics listed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section shall be classified according to the potential effect of such defect and grouped into the following classes:
