
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Quality Control
###### ยง 84.43 Quality control records; review by the Institute; revocation of approval.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The applicant shall keep quality control inspection records sufficient to carry out the procedures required in MIL-STD-414, 11 June 1957, including Change Notice No. 1, "Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Variables for Percent Defective," or an approved equivalent sampling procedure. MIL-STD-105D, 29 April 1963, "Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Attributes," is an example of an approved equivalent sampling procedure. MIL-STD-414 is incorporated by reference and has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from DODSSP, Standardization Document Order Desk, 700 Robbins Avenue, Bldg. 4D, Philadelphia, Pa. 19111-5094. Copies may be inspected at the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies of MIL-STD-105D may be inspected or obtained from the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236.

(b) The Institute reserves the right to have its representatives inspect the applicant's quality control test methods, equipment, and records, and to interview any employee or agent of the applicant in regard to quality control test methods, equipment, and records.

(c) The Institute reserves the right to revoke, for cause, any certificate of approval where it is found that the applicant's quality control test methods, equipment, or records do not ensure effective quality control over the respirator for which the approval was issued.
