
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
###### ยง 84.82 Gas pressure gages; minimum requirements.

(a) Gas pressure gages employed on compressed breathing gas containers shall be calibrated in pounds per square inch.

(b) Liquid-level gages shall be calibrated in fractions of total container capacity, or in units of liquid volume.

(c) Gas pressure gages other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be calibrated in:

(1) Pounds per square inch; or

(2) In fractions of total container capacity; or

(3) Both in pounds per square inch and fractions of total container capacity.

(d)(1) Dial-indicating gages shall be reliable to within +/-5 percent of full scale when tested both up and down the scale at each of 5 equal intervals.

(2) The full-scale graduation of dial-indicating gages shall not exceed 150 percent of the maximum rated cylinder pressures specified for the container in applicable Department of Transportation specifications or permits.

(e)(1) Stem-type gages shall be readable by sight and by touch and shall have a stem travel distance of not less than one-fourth inch between each graduation.

(2) A minimum of five graduations shall be engraved on the stem of each gage and these graduations shall include readings for empty, one-quarter, one-half, three-quarters, and full.

(3) Stem gage readings shall not vary from true readings by more than one-sixteenth inch per inch of stem travel.

(f) The loss of gas through a broken gage or severed gage connection shall not exceed 70 liters per minute when the cylinder pressure is 6,900 kN/m.(1,000 pounds per square inch gage) or when the liquid level is at one-half.

(g) Where gages are connected to the apparatus through a gage line, the gage and line shall be capable of being isolated from the apparatus except where the failure of the gage or line would not impair the performance or service life of the apparatus.

(h) Oxygen pressure gages shall have the words "Oxygen" and "Use No Oil" marked prominently on the gage.

(i)(1) Apparatus using compressed breathing gas, except apparatus classified for escape only, shall be equipped with gages visible to the wearer which indicate the remaining gas content in the container.

(2) Apparatus using liquefied breathing gas, except apparatus classified for escape only, shall be equipped with gages visible to the wearer which indicate the remaining liquid content in the container; however, where the liquid content cannot be rapidly vented, and the service time of the device begins immediately after filling, a timer shall be provided in place of a visible gage.
