
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
###### ยง 84.98 Tests during low temperature operation.

(a) The applicant shall specify the minimum temperature for safe operation and two persons will perform the tests described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, wearing the apparatus according to applicant's directions. At the specified temperature, the apparatus shall meet all the requirements described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) The apparatus will be precooled at the specified minimum temperature for 4 hours.

(c) The apparatus will be worn in the low temperature chamber for 30 minutes, or for the service time of the apparatus, whichever is less.

(d) During the test period, alternate 1-minute periods of exercise and rest will be required with the exercise periods consisting of stepping onto and off a box 21.5 cm. (8inches) high at a rate of 30 cycles per minute.

(e)(1) The apparatus shall function satisfactorily at the specified minimum temperature on duplicate tests.

(2) The wearer shall have sufficient unobscured vision to perform the work.

(3) The wearer shall not experience undue discomfort because of airflow restriction or other physical or chemical changes in the operation of the apparatus.

(f) Auxiliary low-temperature parts which are commercially available to the user may be used on the apparatus to meet the requirements described in paragraph (e) of this section.
