
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart I - Gas Masks
###### ยง 84.124 Facepiece tests; minimum requirements.

(a) The complete gas mask will be fitted to the faces of persons having varying facial shapes and sizes.

(b) Where the applicant specifies a facepiece size or sizes for the gas mask, together with the approximate measurements of faces they are designed to fit, the Institute will insure that test subjects suit such facial measurements.

(c) Any gas mask parts which must be removed to perform the facepiece or mouthpiece fit test shall be replaceable without special tools and without disturbing the facepiece or mouthpiece fit.

(d) The facepiece or mouthpiece fit test, using positive or negative pressure recommended by the applicant and described in his instructions will be used before each test specified in paragraph (e) of this section, and in ยง 84.125.

(e)(1) Each wearer will enter a chamber containing 100 p.p.m. isoamyl acetate vapor for a half-mask facepiece and 1,000 p.p.m. isoamyl acetate vapor for a full facepiece or mouthpiece.

(2) The facepiece or mouthpiece may be adjusted, if necessary, in the test chamber before starting the tests.

(3) Each wearer will remain in the chamber for 8 minutes while performing the following activities:

(i) Two minutes, nodding and turning head;

(ii) Two minutes, calisthenic arm movements;

(iii) Two minutes, running in place; and

(iv) Two minutes, pumping with a tire pump into a 28 liter (1 cubic foot) container.

(4) Each wearer shall not detect the odor of isoamyl acetate during the test.
