
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart J - Supplied-Air Respirators
###### ยง 84.145 Motor-operated blower test; minimum requirements.

(a) Motor-operated blowers shall be tested by operating them at their specified running speed 6 to 8 hours daily for a period of 100 hours when assembled with the kind and maximum length of hose for which the device is to be approved and when connected to each blower or manifold outlet designed for hose connections.

(b) The connection between the motor and the blower shall be so constructed that the motor may be disengaged from the blower when the blower is operated by hand.

(c) The blower shall operate throughout the period without failure or indication of excessive wear of bearings or other working parts.

(d) Where a blower, which is ordinarily motor driven, is operated by hand, the power required to deliver 50 liters of air per minute to each wearer through the maximum length of hose shall not exceed one-fiftieth horsepower, and the torque shall not exceed a force of 2.3 kg. (5 pounds) on a 20 cm. (8-inch) crank, as defined in ยง 84.146.

(e) Where the respirator is assembled with the facepiece and 15 m. (50 feet) of the hose for which it is to be approved, and when connected to one outlet with all other outlets closed and operated at a speed not exceeding 50 revolutions of the crank per minute, the amount of air delivered into the respiratory-inlet covering shall not exceed 150 liters per minute.
