
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart K - Air-Purifying Particulate Respirators
###### ยง 84.171 Required components and attributes.
####### Respiratory inlet covering.

(a)(1) Tight fitting respiratory inlet coverings must be designed and constructed to fit persons with various facial shapes and sizes either:

(i) By providing more than one size; or

(ii) By providing one size which will fit varying facial shapes and sizes.

(2) Full facepieces must provide for optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, which must not reduce the respiratory protective qualities of the respirator.

(3) Loose fitting respiratory inlet coverings must be designed and constructed to fit persons with various head sizes, provide for the optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, and insure against any restriction of movement by the wearer.

(4) Mouthpieces must be equipped with noseclips which are securely attached to the mouthpiece or respirator and provide an airtight seal.

(5) Respiratory inlet coverings that incorporate a lens or faceshield must be designed to prevent eyepiece fogging.

(6) Half-mask facepieces must not interfere with the fit of common industrial safety spectacles, including corrective safety spectacles.

(7) Respiratory inlet coverings must be designed and constructed to provide adequate vision which is not distorted by the eyepieces.
