
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart K - Air-Purifying Particulate Respirators
###### ยง 84.176 Fit test - PAPR classes HE and PAPR100.
####### Isoamyl acetate (IAA) fit test.

(a)The applicant must provide a charcoal-filled canister or cartridge of a size and resistance similar to the filter unit with connectors which can be attached to the facepiece in the same manner as the filter unit.

(1) The canister or cartridge will be used in place of the filter unit, and persons will each wear a modified half-mask facepiece for 8 minutes in a test chamber containing 100 parts (by volume) of isoamyl acetate vapor per million parts of air.

(i) The following work schedule will be performed by each wearer in the test chamber:

(A) Two minutes nodding up and down, and turning head side to side; and

(B) Two minutes calisthenic arm movements.

(C) Two minutes running in place.

(D) Two minutes pumping with tire pump.

(ii) The facepiece must be capable of adjustment, according to the applicant's instructions, to each wearer's face, and the odor of isoamyl acetate must not be detectable by any wearer during the test.

(2) Where the respirator is equipped with a full facepiece, hood, helmet, or mouthpiece, the canister or cartridge will be used in place of the filter unit, and persons will each wear the modified respiratory inlet covering for 8 minutes in a test chamber containing 500 parts (by volume) of isoamyl acetate vapor per million parts of air, performing the work schedule specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
