
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart L - Chemical Cartridge Respirators
###### ยง 84.205 Facepiece test; minimum requirements.

(a) The complete chemical cartridge respirator will be fitted to the faces of persons having varying facial shapes and sizes.

(b) Where the applicant specifies a facepiece size or sizes for the respirator together with the approximate measurement of faces they are designed to fit, the Institute will provide test subjects to suit such facial measurements.

(c) Any chemical cartridge respirator part which must be removed to perform the facepiece or mouthpiece fit test shall be replaceable without special tools and without disturbing facepiece or mouthpiece fit.

(d) The facepiece or mouthpiece fit test using the positive or negative pressure recommended by the applicant and described in his instructions will be used before each test.

(e)(1) Each wearer will enter a chamber containing 100 p.p.m. isoamyl acetate vapor for half-mask facepieces, and 1,000 p.p.m. for full facepieces, mouthpieces, hoods, and helmets.

(2) The facepiece or mouthpiece may be adjusted, if necessary, in the test chamber before starting the test.

(3) Each wearer will remain in the chamber for 8 minutes while performing the following activities:

(i) Two minutes, nodding and turning head;

(ii) Two minutes, calisthenic arm movements;

(iii) Two minutes, running in place; and

(iv) Two minutes, pumping with a tire pump into a 28-liter (1 cubic-foot) container.

(4) Each wearer shall not detect the odor of isoamyl-acetate vapor during the test.
