
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart L - Chemical Cartridge Respirators
###### ยง 84.207 Bench tests; gas and vapor tests; minimum requirements; general.

(a) Bench tests will be made on an apparatus that allows the test atmosphere at 50 +/-5 percent relative humidity and room temperature, approximately 25 &#xB0;C, to enter the cartridges continuously at predetermined concentrations and rates of flow, and that has means for determining the test life of the cartridges.

(b) Where two cartridges are used in parallel on a chemical cartridge respirator, the bench test will be performed with the cartridges arranged in parallel, and the test requirements will apply to the combination rather than to the individual cartridges.

(c) Three cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be removed from containers and tested as received from the applicant.

(d) Two air purifying cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be equilibrated at room temperature by passing 25 percent relative humidity air through them at the flow rate of 25 liters per minute (l.p.m.) for 6 hours.

(e) Two air purifying cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be equilibrated by passing 85 percent relative humidity air through them at the flow rate of 25 l.p.m.

(f) All cartridges will be resealed, kept in an upright position, at room temperatures, and tested within 18 hours.

(g) Cartridges will be tested and shall meet the minimum requirements set forth in Table 11 of this subpart.

(h) Powered air-purifying respirators with a cartridge(s) and particulate filter(s) must meet the as-received minimum service-life requirements and half of the equilibrated minimum service-life requirements set forth in table 11 of subpart L using the flows specified in subpart K, ยง 84.175(b) and equilibrated in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section using the flows specified in subpart K, ยง 84.175(b).
