
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart N - Special Use Respirators
###### § 84.253 Chemical-cartridge respirators; requirements and tests.

(a) Except for the tests prescribed in §§ 84.206 and 84.207, the minimum requirements and performance tests for chemical-cartridge respirators prescribed in Subpart L of this part are applicable to replaceable-cartridge and single-use vinyl chloride chemical-cartridge respirators.

(b) The following bench tests are applicable to cartridges designed for use with chemical-cartridge respirators for entry into and escape from vinyl chloride atmospheres containing adequate oxygen to support life:

(1) Where two cartridges are used in parallel on a chemical-cartridge respirator, the bench test requirements will apply to the combination rather than the individual cartridges.

(2) Four cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be equilibrated at 25 +/-5 &#xB0;C by passing 85 +/-5 percent relative humidity air through them at 25 liters per minute for six hours.

(3) The equilibrated cartridges will be resealed, kept in an upright position, at room temperature, and tested according to paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section for other than single-use respirators or according to paragraphs (b)(6) and (b)(7) of this section for single-use respirators within 18 hours.

(4) The cartridges or pairs of cartridges for other than single-use respirators, equilibrated and stored as described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section, will be tested on an apparatus that allows the test atmosphere at 85 +/-5 percent relative humidity and 25 +/-5 &#xB0;C, to enter the cartridges or pairs of cartridges continuously at a concentration of 10 ppm vinyl chloride monomer at a total flowrate of 64 liters per minute.

(5) The maximum allowable penetration after 90 minutes testing of cartridges or pairs of cartridges for other than single-use respirators, according to paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall not exceed 1 ppm vinyl chloride.

(6) The single-use respirators, equilibrated and stored as described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, will be tested on an apparatus that allows a test atmosphere at 85 +/-5 percent relative humidity and 25 +/-5 &#xB0;C to be cycled through the respirator by a breathing machine at a concentration of 10 ppm vinyl chloride monomer at the rate of 24 respirations per minute at a minute volume of 40 +/-0.6 liters. Air exhaled through the respirator will be 35 +/-2 &#xB0;C with 94 +/-3 percent relative humidity.

(7) The maximum allowable penetration after 144 minutes testing of respirators, according to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, shall not exceed 1 ppm vinyl chloride.
