
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart O - Closed-Circuit Escape Respirators
###### § 84.308 Additional testing.

(a) NIOSH will conduct additional tests, as indicated below, on one or more of the units submitted for approval. Each unit tested must meet the conditions specified in these tests for the CCER to receive approval.

(b) NIOSH will perform safety hazard tests on any CCER that stores more than 200 liters of oxygen or that stores compressed oxygen at pressures exceeding 3,000 psi. The applicant must submit 15 units in addition to the 21-23 units required for testing under §§ 84.304 through 84.307. These units will be evaluated for fire and explosion hazards using the tests specified in RI 9333, pages 4-18; RI 8890, pages 6-62; and PRC Report No. 4294, pages 18-62.

(c) NIOSH will perform the following tests on the eye protection (gas-tight goggles or escape hood lens) of one or more units of every CCER submitted for approval:

(1) NIOSH will test the effectiveness of the eye protection against dust using the method specified in ISO 4855-1981(E) Clause 13, Test for protection against dust. The result will be satisfactory if the reflectance after the test is equal to or greater than 80 percent of its value before testing.

(2) NIOSH will test the effectiveness of the eye protection against gas using the method specified in ISO 4855-1981(E), Clause 14, Test for protection against gas. The test must not result in staining of the area enclosed by the eye protection.

(3) NIOSH will test the durability of the eye protection using the method specified in International Standard ISO 4855-1981(E), Sub-clause 3.1, Unmounted oculars. The lens shall not crack or fracture as a result of the test.

(4) NIOSH will test the eye protection's resistance to fogging in accordance with the method specified in BS EN 168:2002, Clause 16, Test for resistance to fogging of oculars. The lens shall remain free from fogging for a minimum of 8 seconds, pursuant to Clause 16.
