
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 5 - DESIGNATION OF HEALTH PROFESSIONAL(S) SHORTAGE AREAS
##### ยง 5.3 Procedures for designation of health professional(s) shortage areas.

(a) Using data available to the Department from national, State, and local sources and based upon the criteria in the appendices to this part, the Department will annually prepare listings (by State and health service area) of currently designated health professional(s) shortage areas and potentially designatable areas, together with appropriate related data available to the Department. Relevant portions of this material will then be forwarded to each health systems agency, State health planning and development agency, and Governor, who will be asked to review the listings for their State, correct any errors of which they are aware, and offer their recommendations, if any, within 90 days, as to which geographic areas, population groups, and facilities in areas under their jurisdiction should be designated. An information copy of these listings will also be made available, upon request, to interested parties for their use in providing comments or recommendations to the Secretary and/or to the appropriate HSA, SHPDA, or Governor.

(b) In addition, any agency or individual may request the Secretary to designate (or withdraw the designation of) a particular geographic area, population group, or facility as a health professional(s) shortage area. Each request will be forwarded by the Secretary to the appropriate HSA, SHPDA, and Governor, who will be asked to review it and offer their recommendations, if any, within 30 days. An information copy will also be made available to other interested parties, upon request, for their use in providing comments or recommendations to the Secretary and/or to the appropriate HSA, SHPDA, or Governor.

(c) In each case where the designation of a public facility (including a Federal medical facility) is under consideration, the Secretary will give written notice of the proposed designation to the chief administrative officer of the facility, who will be asked to review it and offer their recommendations, if any, within 30 days.

(d) After review of the available information and consideration of the comments and recommendations submitted, the Secretary will designate health professional(s) shortage areas and withdraw the designation of any areas which have been determined no longer to have a shortage of health professional(s).
