
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 84 - APPROVAL OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES
##### Subpart O - Closed-Circuit Escape Respirators
###### ยง 84.309 Additional testing and requirements for dockable CCERs.

(a) NIOSH will conduct additional testing of the CCERs that are designed to allow the user to resupply the oxygen source and the carbon dioxide scrubber while using the respirator during an escape.

(1) NIOSH will test the docking mechanism and procedure to ensure that they maintain the integrity of the breathing circuit (against the intake of hazardous fumes or gases) and the continuity of the breathing gas supply throughout the docking process.

(2) NIOSH will test the docking mechanism and procedure to ensure that users can employ the docking process reliably, safely, and quickly under escape conditions.

(b) NIOSH will designate CCERs that pass the tests specified in this section as "Dockable."

(c) NIOSH will assign the capacity rating to the dockable CCER, as specified under ยง 84.304(d), by conducting the capacity testing using only the breathing gas supply included for the initial use of the wearable apparatus.

(d) NIOSH will test the supplemental capacities of all breathing gas resupply units produced by the manufacturer for use with the dockable CCER. Such tests will follow procedures consistent with those specified under ยง 84.304, including the rating requirements in ยง 84.304(d). The manufacturer must label the breathing gas resupply unit to indicate its capacity as tested by NIOSH and its compatibility with the CCER for which it is designed.

(e) NIOSH may require the applicant to provide additional units of the CCER and breathing gas resupply units to conduct the testing specified in this section.

(f) NIOSH will not approve a CCER with docking components, with or without the "Dockable" NIOSH designation, unless it satisfies the testing and other requirements of this section.
