
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 5 - DESIGNATION OF HEALTH PROFESSIONAL(S) SHORTAGE AREAS
##### Appendix A to Part 5 - Criteria for Designation of Areas Having Shortages of Primary Medical Care Professional(s)
###### Rational Areas for the Delivery of Primary Medical Care Services.

1.

(a) The following areas will be considered rational areas for the delivery of primary medical care services:

(i) A county, or a group of contiguous counties whose population centers are within 30 minutes travel time of each other.

(ii) A portion of a county, or an area made up of portions of more than one county, whose population, because of topography, market or transportation patterns, distinctive population characteristics or other factors, has limited access to contiguous area resources, as measured generally by a travel time greater than 30 minutes to such resources.

(iii) Established neighborhoods and communities within metropolitan areas which display a strong self-identity (as indicated by a homogeneous socioeconomic or demographic structure and/or a tradition of interaction or interdependency), have limited interaction with contiguous areas, and which, in general, have a minimum population of 20,000.

(b) The following distances will be used as guidelines in determining distances corresponding to 30 minutes travel time:

(i) Under normal conditions with primary roads available: 20 miles.

(ii) In mountainous terrain or in areas with only secondary roads available: 15 miles.

(iii) In flat terrain or in areas connected by interstate highways: 25 miles.

Within inner portions of metropolitan areas, information on the public transportation system will be used to determine the distance corresponding to 30 minutes travel time.
