
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 86 - GRANTS FOR EDUCATION PROGRAMS IN OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
##### Subpart B - Occupational Safety and Health Training Grants
###### ยง 86.13 Project requirements.

(a) An approvable application for a long-term training grant must contain each of the following, unless the Secretary determines that the applicant has established good cause for its omission.

(1) Provision of a method for development of the training curriculum and any attendant training materials and resources;

(2) Provision of a method for implementation of the needed training;

(3) Provision of an evaluation methodology, including the manner in which such methodology will be employed, to measure the achievement of the objectives of the training program; and

(4) Provision of a method by which trainees will be selected.

(b) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, an approvable application for a short-term training grant must contain each of the following, unless the Secretary determines that the applicant has established good cause for its omission.

(1) Provision of a methodology to assess the particular skills, or knowledge that prospective trainees need to develop;

(2) Provision of at least 18 hours of formal instruction for a period of not less than 2days and not more than 1 academic year; and

(3) Assurances that no portion of the Federal funds will be used for (i) inservice training courses designed only for employees of a single agency, institution, or organization; (ii) correspondence courses; (iii) regular courses usually given for academic credit; or (iv) training the grantee's financial officers, program director, or the official who executed the application.

(c) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (b)(1), and (b)(3) (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section, an approvable application for an educational resource center grant must contain each of the following, unless the Secretary determines that the applicant has established good cause for its omission:

(1) A description, supported by appropriate documents, of cooperative arrangements to conduct an educational resource center among a medical school (with an established program in preventive or occupational medicine), a school of nursing, a school of public health or its equivalent, and a school of engineering or its equivalent. Other schools or departments with relevant disciplines and resources-e.g., toxicology, biostatistics, environmental health, law, business administration, education-may be represented and contribute as appropriate to the conduct of the total program.

(2) The identification of an educational resource center Director who possesses a demonstrated capacity for sustained productivity and leadership in occupational safety and health training who shall oversee the general operation of the educational resource center program and shall, to the extent possible, directly participate in training activities.

(3) A description of the full-time professional staff representing various disciplines and qualifications relevant to occupational safety and health and capable of planning, establishing, and carrying out or administering training projects undertaken by the educational resource center.

(4) A description of the training and research expertise, appropriate facilities and ongoing training and research activities in occupational safety and health areas.

(5) A description of its program for conducting education and training of occupational health physicians, occupational health nurses, industrial hygienists/engineers and safety personnel. There shall be full-time students in each of these core disciplines, with a goal of a minimum total of 30 full-time students. Training may also be conducted in other occupational safety and health career categories, e.g., industrial toxicology, biostatistics, epidemiology, and ergonomics. Training programs shall include appropriate field experience including experience with public health and safety agencies and labor-management health and safety activities.

(6) A specific plan for making an impact on the curriculum taught by relevant medical specialties, including radiology, orthopedics, dermatology, internal medicine, neurology, perinatal medicine, and pathology.

(7) A description of its program to assist other institutions or agencies located within the applicant's region including schools of medicine, nursing and engineering, among others, by providing curriculum materials and consultation for curriculum/course development in occupational safety and health, and by providing training opportunities for faculty members.

(8) A specific plan for preparing, distributing, and conducting courses, seminars and workshops to provide short-term and continuing education training courses for physicians, nurses, industrial hygienists, safety engineers and other occupational safety and health professionals, paraprofessionals and technicians, including personnel of labor-management health and safety committees, in the geographical region in which the educational resource center is located. The content and orientation of the curriculum/courses shall take into consideration and address problems relevant to the geographic region served. The goal shall be that the training be made available each year to a minimum of 200-250 trainees representing all of the above categories of personnel with priority given to providing occupational safety and health training to physicians in family practice, as well as in industrial practice, and industrial nurses. These courses shall be structured so that educational institutions, public health and safety agencies, professional societies or other appropriate agencies can utilize them to provide training at the local level to occupational safety and health personnel working in the workplace. Further, the educational resource center shall have a specific plan and demonstrated capability for implementing such training directly and through other institutions or agencies in the region including cooperative efforts with labor unions and industry trade associations where appropriate.
