
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 86 - GRANTS FOR EDUCATION PROGRAMS IN OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
##### Subpart B - Occupational Safety and Health Training Grants
###### ยง 86.16 Use of project funds.

(a) Any funds granted pursuant to this subpart as well as other funds to be used in performance of the approved project shall be expended solely for carrying out the approved project in accordance with section 21(a) of the Act, the regulations of this subpart, the terms and conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles prescribed by subpart Q of 45 CFR part 74.

(b) Prior written approval by the Secretary of revision of the budget and project plan is required whenever there is to be a significant change in the scope or nature of project activities, which in the case of short term training grants, includes any change in the course dates or training sites.

(c) Grant funds are available for trainee stipends and for tuition, including fees and instructional materials, for travel costs related to training allowances. Stipends and allowances may not be increased or be paid beyond the term of the stipend on account of vacation an individual might have been entitled to but did not take.

(d) Stipends may only be paid to a trainee who is a citizen of the United States, an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence, or a permanent resident of Guam, American Samoa, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

(e) In the case of short term training grants, stipends may not be paid to persons receiving lecture fees, salary, travel expenses, or payment in any form as members of the course instructional staff.

(f) Grant funds used for alterations and renovations shall be subject to the condition that the grantee shall comply with the requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, and with the applicable regulations prescribed pursuant thereto.
