
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 87 - NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION GRANTS
##### ยง 87.4 For what purposes may grants be awarded?

(a) The Occupational Safety and Health Act authorizes grants for research, experiments, and demonstrations relating to occupational safety and health, including studies of the psychological factors involved. This authority includes projects to develop innovative methods, techniques, and approaches for dealing with occupational safety and health problems.

(b) The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act authorizes grants for research projects designed to:

(1) Improve working conditions and practices affecting health in coal or other mines and to prevent occupational diseases originating in the mining industry.

(2) Develop epidemiological information to (i) identify and define positive factors involved in occupational diseases of miners, (ii) provide information on the incidence and prevalence of pneumoconiosis and other respiratory ailments of miners, and (iii) improve health standards.

(3) Develop techniques for the prevention and control of occupational diseases of miners, including tests for hypersusceptibility and early detection.

(4) Evaluate the effect on bodily impairment and occupational disability of miners afflicted with an occupational disease.

(5) Study the relationship between coal or other mine environments and occupational diseases of miners.

(6) Study matters involving the protection of life and the prevention of diseases in connection with persons who, although not miners, work with or around the products of coal or other mines in areas outside of such mines and under conditions which may adversely affect the health and well-being of such persons.

(7) Develop effective respiratory equipment.
