
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.2 General provisions.
###### Designated representative.

(a)(1) An applicant or WTC Health Program member may appoint one individual to represent his or her interests under the WTC Health Program. The appointment must be made in writing and consistent with all relevant Federal laws and regulations in order for the designated representative to receive personal health information.

(2) There may be only one designated representative at any time. After one designated representative has been properly appointed, the WTC Health Program will not recognize another individual as the designated representative until the appointment of the previously designated representative is withdrawn in a signed writing.

(3) A properly appointed designated representative who is recognized by the WTC Health Program may make a request or give direction to the WTC Health Program regarding the eligibility, certification, or any other administrative issue pertaining to the applicant or WTC Health Program member under the WTC Health Program, including appeals. Any notice requirement contained in this part or in the Act is fully satisfied if sent to the designated representative.

(4) An applicant or WTC Health Program member may authorize any individual to represent him or her in regard to the WTC Health Program, unless that individual's service as a representative would violate any applicable provision of law (such as 18 U.S.C. 205 or 18 U.S.C. 208) or is otherwise prohibited by WTC Health Program policies and procedures or contract provisions.

(5) A Federal employee may act as a representative only on behalf of the individuals specified in, and in the manner permitted by, 18 U.S.C. 203 and 18 U.S.C. 205.

(6) If an applicant or screening-eligible or certified-eligible survivor is a minor, a parent or guardian may act on his or her behalf.

(7) If an applicant or WTC Health Program member is a mentally incompetent adult, an individual authorized under state or other applicable law to act on the applicant's or member's behalf may act as his or her designated representative as described in this section.
