
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.8 Eligibility criteria - WTC survivors.

(a) Criteria for status as a screening-eligible survivor. An individual who is not a WTC responder, claims symptoms of a WTC-related health condition, and who has not been previously identified as eligible under ยง 88.7 may apply to the WTC Health Program on or after July 1, 2011, for a determination of eligibility for an initial health evaluation.

(1) The WTC Health Program will determine an applicant's eligibility for an initial health evaluation based on one of the following criteria:

(i) The screening applicant was present in the dust or dust cloud in the New York City disaster area on September 11, 2001.

(ii) The screening applicant worked, resided, or attended school, childcare, or adult daycare in the New York City disaster area, for at least:

(A) 4 days during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on January 10, 2002; or

(B) 30 days during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on July 31, 2002.

(iii) The screening applicant worked as a cleanup worker or performed maintenance work in the New York City disaster area during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on January 10, 2002, and had extensive exposure to WTC dust as a result of such work.

(iv) The screening applicant:

(A) Was deemed eligible to receive a grant from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation Residential Grant Program;

(B) Possessed a lease for a residence or purchased a residence in the New York City disaster area; and

(C) Resided in such residence during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on May 31, 2003.

(v) The screening applicant is an individual whose place of employment-

(A) At any time during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on May 31, 2003, was in the New York City disaster area; and

(B) Was deemed eligible to receive a grant from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation WTC Small Firms Attraction and Retention Act program or other government incentive program designed to revitalize the lower Manhattan economy after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) Criteria for status as a certified-eligible survivor. Survivors who have been determined to have screening-eligible status under ยง 88.10(a), may seek status as a certified-eligible survivor. Status as a certified-eligible survivor is based on a certification by the WTC Health Program that, pursuant to an initial health evaluation, the screening-eligible survivor has a WTC-related health condition and is eligible for follow-up monitoring and treatment.

(c) The WTC Health Program will maintain a list of screening-eligible and certified-eligible survivors.
