
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.15 List of WTC-Related Health Conditions.

WTC-related health conditions include the following disorders and conditions:

(a) Aerodigestive disorders:

(1) Interstitial lung diseases.

(2) Chronic respiratory disorder-fumes/vapors.

(3) Asthma.

(4) Reactive airways dysfunction syndrome (RADS).

(5) WTC-exacerbated and new-onset chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

(6) Chronic cough syndrome.

(7) Upper airway hyperreactivity.

(8) Chronic rhinosinusitis.

(9) Chronic nasopharyngitis.

(10) Chronic laryngitis.

(11) Gastroesophageal reflux disorder (GERD).

(12) Sleep apnea exacerbated by or related to a condition described in preceding paragraphs (a)(1) through (11) of this section.

(b) Mental health conditions:

(1) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

(2) Major depressive disorder.

(3) Panic disorder.

(4) Generalized anxiety disorder.

(5) Anxiety disorder (not otherwise specified).

(6) Depression (not otherwise specified).

(7) Acute stress disorder.

(8) Dysthymic disorder.

(9) Adjustment disorder.

(10) Substance abuse.

(c) Musculoskeletal disorders:

(1) WTC-related musculoskeletal disorder is a chronic or recurrent disorder of the musculoskeletal system caused by heavy lifting or repetitive strain on the joints or musculoskeletal system occurring during rescue or recovery efforts in the New York City disaster area in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. For a WTC responder who received any treatment for a WTC-related musculoskeletal disorder on or before September 11, 2003, such a health condition includes:

(i) Low back pain.

(ii) Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS).

(iii) Other musculoskeletal disorders.

(2) [Reserved].

(d) Cancers:

(1) Malignant neoplasms of the lip; tongue; salivary gland; floor of mouth; gum and other mouth; tonsil; oropharynx; hypopharynx; and other oral cavity and pharynx.

(2) Malignant neoplasm of the nasopharynx.

(3) Malignant neoplasms of the nose; nasal cavity; middle ear; and accessory sinuses.

(4) Malignant neoplasm of the larynx.

(5) Malignant neoplasm of the esophagus.

(6) Malignant neoplasm of the stomach.

(7) Malignant neoplasms of the colon and rectum.

(8) Malignant neoplasms of the liver and intrahepatic bile duct.

(9) Malignant neoplasms of the retroperitoneum and peritoneum; omentum; and mesentery.

(10) Malignant neoplasms of the trachea; bronchus and lung; heart, mediastinum and pleura; and other ill-defined sites in the respiratory system and intrathoracic organs.

(11) Mesothelioma.

(12) Malignant neoplasms of the peripheral nerves and autonomic nervous system; and other connective and soft tissue.

(13) Malignant neoplasms of the skin (melanoma and non-melanoma), including scrotal cancer.

(14) Malignant neoplasm of the female breast.

(15) Malignant neoplasms of corpus uteri and uterus, part unspecified.

(16) Malignant neoplasm of the ovary.

(17) Malignant neoplasm of the prostate.

(18) Malignant neoplasm of the urinary bladder.

(19) Malignant neoplasm of the kidney.

(20) Malignant neoplasms of the renal pelvis; ureter; and other urinary organs.

(21) Malignant neoplasms of the eye and orbit.

(22) Malignant neoplasm of the thyroid.

(23) Malignant neoplasms of the blood and lymphoid tissues (including, but not limited to, lymphoma, leukemia, and myeloma).

(24) >Childhood cancers: any type of cancer diagnosed in a person less than 20 years of age.

(25) Rare cancers: any type of cancerthat occurs in less than 15 cases per 100,000 persons per year in the United States.

(e) Acute traumatic injuries:

(1) WTC-related acute traumatic injury is physical damage to the body caused by and occurring immediately after a one-time exposure to energy, such as heat, electricity, or impact from a crash or fall, resulting from a specific event or incident. For a WTC responder or screening-eligible or certified-eligible survivors who received any medical treatment for a WTC-related acute traumatic injury on or before September 11, 2003, such a health condition includes:

(i) Eye injury.

(ii) Burn.

(iii) Head trauma.

(iv) Fracture.

(v) Tendon tear.

(vi) Complex sprain.

(vii) Other similar acute traumatic injuries.

(2) [Reserved]
