
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.16 Addition of health conditions to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions.

(a) Any interested party may submit a request to the Administrator of the WTC Health Program to add a condition to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions in ยง 88.15. The Administrator will evaluate the submission to decide whether it is a valid petition.

(1) Each valid petition must include the following:

(i) An explicit statement of an intent to petition the Administrator to add a health condition to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions;

(ii) Name, contact information, and signature of the interested party petitioning for the addition;

(iii) Name and/or description of the condition(s) to be added;

(iv) Reasons for adding the condition(s), including the medical basis for the association between the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the condition(s) to be added.

(2) Not later than 90 calendar days after the receipt of a valid petition, the Administrator will take one of the following actions:

(i) Request a recommendation of the WTC Health Program Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee;

(ii) Publish in thea proposed rule to add such health condition;

(iii) Publish in thethe Administrator's decision not to publish a proposed rule and the basis for that decision; or

(iv) Publish in thea decision that insufficient evidence exists to take action under paragraph (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(3) The 90-day time period will not include any days during which the Administrator is consulting with the interested party to clarify the submission.

(4) The Administrator may consider more than one petition simultaneously when the petitions propose the addition of the same health condition. Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee recommendations andnotices initiated by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section may respond to more than one petition.
