
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.16 Addition of health conditions to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions.
###### i.e.,

(5) The Administrator will be required to consider a submission for a health condition previously reviewed by the Administrator and found not to qualify for addition to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions as a valid new petition only if the submission presents a new medical basis (a basis not previously reviewed) for the association between the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the condition to be added. A submission that provides no new medical basis and is received after the publication of a response in theto a petition requesting the addition of the same health condition will not be considered a valid petition and will not be answered in anotice pursuant to paragraph (a)(2), above. The interested party will be informed of the WTC Health Program's decision in writing.

(b) The Administrator may propose to add a condition to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions in ยง 88.15 of this part by publishing a proposed rule in theand providing interested parties a period of 30 calendar days to submit written comments. The Administrator may extend the comment period for good cause.

(1) If the Administrator requests a recommendation from the WTC Health Program Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee, the Advisory Committee will submit its recommendation to the Administrator no later than 90 calendar days after the date of the transmission of the request or no later than a date specified by the Administrator (but not more than 180 calendar days after the request). The Administrator will publish a proposed rule or a decision not to publish a proposed rule in theno later than 90 calendar days after the date of transmission of the Advisory Committee recommendation.

(2) Before issuing a final rule to add a health condition to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions, the Administrator will provide for an independent peer review of the scientific and technical evidence that would be the basis for issuing such final rule.
