
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.21 Appeal of certification, decertification, or treatment authorization decision.
###### Appeal request.

(b)(1) A letter requesting an appeal must be postmarked within 120 calendar days of the date of the letter from the Administrator of the WTC Health Program notifying the member of the adverse decision. Electronic versions of a signed letter will be accepted if transmitted within 120 calendar days of the date of the Administrator's notification letter.

(2) A valid request for an appeal must:

(i) Be made in writing and signed;

(ii) Identify the member and designated representative (if applicable);

(iii) Describe the decision being appealed and the reason(s) why the member or designated representative believes the decision is incorrect and should be reversed. The description may include, but is not limited to, the following: Scientific or medical information correcting factual errors that may have been submitted to the WTC Health Program by the CCE or NPN; information demonstrating that the WTC Health Program did not correctly follow or apply relevant WTC Health Program policies or procedures; or any information demonstrating that the WTC Health Program's decision was not reasonable given the facts of the case. The basis provided in the appeal request must be sufficiently detailed and supported by information to permit a review of the appeal. Any new information not previously considered by the WTC Health Program must be included with the appeal request, unless later requested by the WTC Health Program; and

(iv) Be sent to the WTC Health Program at the address specified in the notice of denial.

(3) The appeal request may also state an intent to make a 15-minute oral statement by telephone. The WTC Health Program member or designated representative will have a second opportunity to schedule an oral statement after being contacted by the WTC Health Program regarding the appeal.
