
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Occupational Safety and Health Research and Related Activities
#### PART 88 - WORLD TRADE CENTER HEALTH PROGRAM
##### ยง 88.21 Appeal of certification, decertification, or treatment authorization decision.
###### Appeal process.

(c)Upon receipt of a valid appeal, the Administrator will appoint a Federal Official independent of the WTC Health Program to review the case. The Federal Official will review all available records relevant to the WTC Health Program's decision to deny certification of a health condition as a WTC-related health condition, deny certification of a health condition as medically associated with a WTC-related health condition, decertify the WTC-related health condition or health condition medically associated with a WTC-related health condition, or deny treatment authorization, and assess whether the appeal should be granted. The Federal Official's consideration will include the following: Whether the WTC Health Program substantially complied with all relevant WTC Health Program policies and procedures; whether the information supporting the WTC Health Program's decision was factually accurate; and whether the WTC Health Program's decision was reasonable as applied to the facts of the case.

(1) In conducting his or her review, the Federal Official will review the case record, including any oral statement made by the WTC Health Program member or the member's designated representative, as well as additional relevant new information submitted with the appeal request or provided by the WTC Health Program member or the member's designated representative at the request of the WTC Health Program.

(2) The Federal Official may consult one or more qualified experts to review the WTC Health Program's decision and any additional information provided by the WTC Health Program member or the member's designated representative. The expert reviewer(s) will submit their findings to the Federal Official.

(3) The Federal Official will provide his or her recommendation regarding the disposition of the appeal, including his or her findings and any supporting materials (including the transcript of any oral statement and any expert reviewers' findings), to the Administrator.
