
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Assessments and Health Effects Studies of Hazardous Substances Releases and Facilities
#### PART 93 - PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE POLICIES ON RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
##### Subpart E - Opportunity To Contest ORI Findings of Research Misconduct and HHS Administrative Actions
###### Hearing Process
####### ยง 93.502 Appointment of the Administrative Law Judge and scientific expert.

(a) Within 30 days of receiving a request for a hearing, the DAB Chair, in consultation with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, must designate an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) to determine whether the hearing request should be granted and, if the hearing request is granted, to make recommended findings in the case after a hearing or review of the administrative record in accordance with this part.

(b) The ALJ may retain one or more persons with appropriate scientific or technical expertise to assist the ALJ in evaluating scientific or technical issues related to the findings of research misconduct.

(1) On the ALJ's or a party's motion to appoint an expert, the ALJ must give the parties an opportunity to submit nominations. If such a motion is made by a party, the ALJ must appoint an expert, either:

(i) The expert, if any, who is agreed upon by both parties and found to be qualified by the ALJ; or,

(ii) If the parties cannot agree upon an expert, the expert chosen by the ALJ.

(2) The ALJ may seek advice from the expert(s) at any time during the discovery and hearing phases of the proceeding. The expert(s) shall provide advice to the ALJ in the form of a written report or reports that will be served upon the parties within 10 days of submission to the ALJ. That report must contain a statement of the expert's background and qualifications. Any comment on or response to a report by a party, which may include comments on the expert's qualifications, must be submitted to the ALJ in accordance with ยง 93.510(c). The written reports and any comment on, or response to them are part of the record. Expert witnesses of the parties may testify on the reports and any comments or responses at the hearing, unless the ALJ determines such testimony to be inadmissible in accordance with ยง 93.519, or that such testimony would unduly delay the proceeding.

(c) No ALJ, or person hired or appointed to assist the ALJ, may serve in any proceeding under this subpart if he or she has any real or apparent conflict of interest, bias, or prejudice that might reasonably impair his or her objectivity in the proceeding.

(d) Any party to the proceeding may request the ALJ or scientific expert to withdraw from the proceeding because of a real or apparent conflict of interest, bias, or prejudice under paragraph (c) of this section. The motion to disqualify must be timely and state with particularity the grounds for disqualification. The ALJ may rule upon the motion or certify it to the Chief ALJ for decision. If the ALJ rules upon the motion, either party may appeal the decision to the Chief ALJ.

(e) An ALJ must withdraw from any proceeding for any reason found by the ALJ or Chief ALJ to be disqualifying.
