
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Health Assessments and Health Effects Studies of Hazardous Substances Releases and Facilities
#### PART 93 - PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE POLICIES ON RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
##### Subpart E - Opportunity To Contest ORI Findings of Research Misconduct and HHS Administrative Actions
###### Hearing Process
####### ยง 93.516 Standard and burden of proof.
######## Burden of proof.

(b)(1) ORI bears the burden of proving the findings of research misconduct. The destruction, absence of, or respondent's failure to provide research records adequately documenting the questioned research is evidence of research misconduct where ORI establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that the respondent intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly had research records and destroyed them, had the opportunity to maintain the records but did not do so, or maintained the records and failed to produce them in a timely manner and the respondent's conduct constitutes a significant departure from accepted practices of the relevant research community.

(2) The respondent has the burden of going forward with and the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any and all affirmative defenses raised. In determining whether ORI has carried the burden of proof imposed by this part, the ALJ shall give due consideration to admissible, credible evidence of honest error or difference of opinion presented by the respondent.

(3) ORI bears the burden of proving that the proposed HHS administrative actions are reasonable under the circumstances of the case. The respondent has the burden of going forward with and proving by a preponderance of the evidence any mitigating factors that are relevant to a decision to impose HHS administrative actions following a research misconduct proceeding.
