
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Available Benefits
###### ยง 110.31 Medical benefits.
####### e.g.,

(a) Injured countermeasure recipients may receive payments or reimbursements for medical services and items that the Secretary determines to be reasonable and necessary to diagnose or treat a covered injury, or to diagnose, treat, or prevent the health complications of a covered injury. The Secretary may pay for such medical services and items in an effort to cure, counteract, or minimize the effects of any covered injury, or any health complication of a covered injury, or to give relief, reduce the degree or the period of disability, or aid in lessening the amount of benefits to a requester (a surgical procedure that lessens the amount of time and expense for the treatment of a covered injury). The Secretary may make such payments or reimbursements if reasonable and necessary medical services and items have already been provided or if they are likely to be needed in the future. In making determinations about which medical services and items are reasonable and necessary, the Secretary may consider whether those medical services and items were prescribed or recommended by a healthcare provider, and may consider whether the applicable service or item is within the standard of care for that condition.

(b) To receive medical benefits for the health complications of a covered injury, a requester must demonstrate that the complications are the direct result of the covered injury. Examples of health complications include, but are not limited to, ill-effects that stem from the covered injury, an adverse reaction to a prescribed medication or as a result of a diagnostic test used in connection with a covered injury, or a complication of a surgical procedure used to treat a covered injury.

(c) The calculation of medical benefits available under this Program is described in ยง 110.80. Although there are no caps on medical benefits, the Secretary may limit payments to the amounts that she determines are reasonable for services and items considered reasonable and necessary. All payment or reimbursement for medical services and items is secondary to any obligation of any third-party payer to pay for or provide such services or items to the requester. As provided in ยง 110.84, the Secretary retains the right to recover medical benefits paid by the Program to requesters if third-party payers are obligated to provide those benefits. Requesters are expected to make good faith efforts to pursue medical benefits and services from their primary payers. The Secretary reserves the right to disapprove medical benefits if the requester fails to do so.

(d) The Secretary may make payments of medical benefits or reimbursements of medical expenses described in this section to the estate of a deceased injured countermeasure recipient as long as such payments or expenses were accrued during the deceased injured countermeasure recipient's lifetime, or at the time of death, as the result of the covered injury or its health complications, and were not paid in full by the Program before the deceased injured countermeasure recipient died.
