
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Available Benefits
###### § 110.33 Death benefits.

(a) Eligible survivors may be able to receive a death benefit under this Program if the Secretary determines that an otherwise eligible countermeasure recipient sustained a covered injury and died as a direct result of the injury or its health complications. The method and amount of death benefits are described in § 110.82. As provided in § 110.84, the Secretary retains the right to recover death benefits paid by the Program if third-party payers are obligated to provide those benefits. There are two different calculations for death benefits: the standard calculation and the alternative calculation.

(b) The standard calculation, described in § 110.82(b), is based upon the death benefit available under the PSOB Program and is available to all eligible survivors with one exception (surviving dependents younger than the age of 18 who do not fit the definition of "child" under § 110.3(e)). In the event that death benefits were paid under the PSOB Program with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient, no death benefits may be paid under the standard calculation. In addition, death benefits under this standard calculation are secondary to disability benefits under the PSOB Program. If a disability benefit was paid under the PSOB Program, the amount of that disability benefit would be deducted from benefits payable under the standard calculation.

(c) The alternative calculation, described in § 110.82(c), is based on the injured countermeasure recipient's employment income at the time of the covered injury. Payment under this calculation is only available to surviving dependents who are younger than the age of 18 at the time of payment. The legal guardian(s) of such surviving dependents must select the death benefit as calculated under this alternative calculation before it will be paid. Annual and lifetime caps may apply. The payment of a death benefit as calculated under this alternative calculation is secondary to other benefits paid or payable with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient, namely:

(1) Compensation for loss of employment income (except for lost employment income under this Program);
