
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 2 - CONFIDENTIALITY OF SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER PATIENT RECORDS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 2.12 Applicability.
####### Federal assistance to program required.

(2)If a patient's substance use disorder diagnosis, treatment, or referral for treatment is not provided by a part 2 program, that patient's record is not covered by the regulations in this part. Thus, it is possible for an individual patient to benefit from federal support and not be covered by the confidentiality regulations because the program in which the patient is enrolled is not federally assisted as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. For example, if a federal court placed an individual in a private for-profit program and made a payment to the program on behalf of that individual, that patient's record would not be covered by the regulations in this part unless the program itself received federal assistance as defined by paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Information to which restrictions are applicable. Whether a restriction applies to the use or disclosure of a record affects the type of records which may be disclosed. The restrictions on disclosure apply to any part 2-covered records which would identify a specified patient as having or having had a substance use disorder. The restriction on use of part 2 records to bring criminal charges against a patient for a crime applies to any records obtained by the part 2 program for the purpose of diagnosis, treatment, or referral for treatment of patients with substance use disorders. (Restrictions on use and disclosure apply to recipients of part 2 records under paragraph (d) of this section.)
