
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Calculation and Payment of Benefits
###### ยง 110.81 Calculation of benefits for lost employment income.
####### Primary calculation.

(a)Benefits under this section may be paid for days of work lost as a result of a covered injury or its health complications if the injured countermeasure recipient lost employment income for the lost work days as reasonable based on the degree of injury or disability. As stated in ยง 110.32(c), days for which an individual used paid leave will be considered days of work for which employment income was received and, therefore, would not qualify for lost employment income benefits. However, if the injured countermeasure recipient reimburses the employer for the paid leave taken and the employer restores the leave that was used, the individual may be eligible for lost employment income benefits for those days;

(1) The Secretary will calculate the rate of benefits to be paid for the lost work days based on the injured countermeasure recipient's gross employment income, which includes income from self-employment, at the time he or she sustained the covered injury. The Secretary may not, except with respect to injured individuals who are minors, consider projected future earnings in this calculation.

(i) For an injured countermeasure recipient with no dependents at the time the covered injury was sustained, the benefits are 66percent of the individual's gross employment income at the time of injury.

(ii) For an injured countermeasure recipient with one or more dependents at the time the covered injury was sustained, the benefits are 75 percent of the individual's gross employment income at the time of injury; and

(iii) In the case of an injured countermeasure recipient who is a minor, the Secretary may consider the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8113 (authorizing the FECA Program), and any implementing regulations, in determining the amount of payments under this section and the circumstances under which such payments are reasonable and necessary.
