
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Calculation and Payment of Benefits
###### ยง 110.82 Calculation of death benefits.
####### Standard calculation of death benefits.

(b)(1) The maximum death benefit available under the standard calculation of death benefits (described in this paragraph) is the amount of the comparable death benefit calculated under the PSOB Program in the same fiscal year in which the injured countermeasure recipient died (regardless of whether the PSOB Program reduces the amount of its death benefits because of a limit in appropriations).

(2) No death benefit will be paid under the standard calculation if a death benefit is paid, or if survivors are eligible to receive a death benefit, under the PSOB Program with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient.

(3) The death benefit will not be reduced under the standard calculation if a total and permanent disability benefit has been, or will be paid under the PSOB Program with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient. However, the death benefit will be reduced if a temporary and partial disability benefit has been, or will be paid under the PSOB Program with respect to that individual. If the PSOB Program disability benefit paid was reduced because of a limitation on appropriations, a death benefit will be available under the standard calculation to the extent necessary to ensure that the total amount of disability benefits paid under the PSOB Program, together with the amount of death benefits paid under the standard calculation, equals the amount of the death benefit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) Under the standard calculation, death benefits will be paid in a lump sum.
