
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Calculation and Payment of Benefits
###### ยง 110.83 Payment of all benefits.
####### e.g.,

(c) The Secretary has the discretion to make interim payments of benefits under this Program, even before a final determination as to the type(s) and total amount of benefits that will be paid. Interim payments will be made only in exceptional cases. The Secretary may, for example, make an interim payment of medical benefits that have been calculated before a final determination on benefits for lost employment income is completed, or of past medical benefits that have been calculated before a final calculation of future medical benefits is completed. The Secretary may make an interim payment even before a final eligibility or benefits determination is made (if a piece of documentation has not been obtained because a person with a severe countermeasure-related injury is hospitalized, but all other documentation is consistent with the requester meeting the eligibility requirements). If such a requester's documentation is incomplete, the requester must submit the required documentation within the time-frame determined by the Secretary. The requester must agree that he or she will be obligated to repay the Secretary such benefits in the event that a Program payment is later determined to be incorrect. Any payments made on an interim basis will not entitle a requester to seek reconsideration of the Secretary's decision on these benefits until the Secretary makes a final benefits determination.
