
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Covered Countermeasures Injury Tables
###### ยง 110.100 Injury Tables.
####### Post-vaccinial encephalopathy, encephalitis, and encephalomyelitis (PVEM).,vaccinial,vaccinia,sequelae

(9)PVEM is a spectrum of overlapping conditions that includes post-encephalopathy, encephalitis, and encephalomyelitis, and, for the purposes of Table 2, is treated as one injury. For the purposes of Table 2, PVEM is an autoimmune central nervous system injury that occurs after the use or administration of a replication-competent smallpox vaccine. In rare cases, thevirus is isolated from the central nervous system. Manifestations usually occur abruptly and may include fever, vomiting, loss of appetite (anorexia), headache, general malaise, impaired consciousness, confusion, disorientation, delirium, drowsiness, seizures, language difficulties (aphasia), coma, muscular incoordination (ataxia), urinary incontinence, urinary retention, and clinical signs consistent with inflammation of the spinal cord (myelitis), such as paralysis or meningismus (meningeal irritation). Long-term central nervous system impairments, such as paralysis, seizure disorders, or developmental delays are known to occur asof the acute PVEM. No clinical criteria, radiographic findings, or laboratory tests are specific for the diagnosis of PVEM. Symptoms that occur before 5 days or more than 14 days after receiving the smallpox vaccine should not be attributed to it. In addition, encephalopathy caused by an infection, a toxin, a metabolic disturbance, a structural lesion, a genetic disorder, or trauma would not meet the Table 2 definition.
