
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Covered Countermeasures Injury Tables
###### ยง 110.100 Injury Tables.
####### Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI).

(11)TRALI is defined as the onset of respiratory distress within 6 hours in non-critically ill patients, and 72 hours in critically ill patients, after receipt of blood products containing plasma, in this case, VIGIV. The relative level of illness will be determined on a case-by-case basis after reviewing the medical records and the medical history. The respiratory distress is the result of receiving a plasma containing transfusion (VIGIV) and subsequently developing pulmonary edema, respiratory distress, and hypoxia. TRALI occurs as the result of an antibody response in the host to the donor antibodies within the plasma product. Pulmonary edema is non-cardiac in nature and does not occur more than 72 hours after receiving VIGIV. Pulmonary edema occurring more than 72 hours after receiving a blood product containing plasma (VIGIV) or associated with cardiac dysfunction is not TRALI and is excluded as a countermeasure-related injury. TRALI has been identified as a major cause of mortality in those individual receiving plasma-containing transfusions. A Table 2 injury for TRALI has occurred in a recipient if there is sufficient evidence in the medical record of an occurrence of TRALI and the pulmonary edema is not caused by cardiac dysfunction or other causes and occurs within 72 of receiving a blood product containing plasma, in this case VIGIV.
