
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Covered Countermeasures Injury Tables
###### ยง 110.100 Injury Tables.
####### Drug-induced aseptic meningitis (DIAM).

(13)(i) DIAM is an inflammation of the meninges (linings of the brain) that is not caused by a bacteria or virus, but is caused by a drug or medication. The symptoms of meningitis include severe headache, nuchal (neck) rigidity, drowsiness, fever, photophobia (light sensitivity), painful eye movements, nausea, and vomiting. Discontinuation of the medication leads to a resolution of the symptoms. DIAM is thought to occur because of an immunological hypersensitivity reaction to a specific medication. In the case of immunoglobulins, DIAM may be precipitated by the immunologically active components within the plasma or because of the stabilizers used within the product. The symptoms of DIAM may reoccur with another exposure to the offending agent.

(ii) A Table 2 injury for DIAM has occurred in a recipient if there is sufficient evidence in the medical record of an occurrence of DIAM within the identified timeframe and the individual received the associated countermeasure (VIGIV). DIAM occurring in the absence of the use of VIGIV, or DIAM occurring with the use of VIGIV outside the established timeframe of onset, which is any time after the first dose and up to 48 hours after the last dose of this medication, is not a Table 2 injury.
