
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Vaccines
#### PART 110 - COUNTERMEASURES INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Covered Countermeasures Injury Tables
###### ยง 110.100 Injury Tables.
####### Hemolysis.

(14)Hemolysis is the physical breakdown of red blood cells (RBCs) either through natural attrition or as caused by external factors. The RBC's function is to transport oxygen throughout the body in the hemoglobin contained within the RBC. Additionally, the RBCs contain the majority of the body's potassium stores. With hemolysis, the body is unable to transport oxygen effectively, and the person develops hypoxia. Additionally, the rapid breakdown of the cell releases large amounts of potassium into the blood stream, which can cause abnormal heart rhythms and cardiac arrest. In severe cases of hemolysis, a blood transfusion may be required to correct the resulting anemia. A Table 2 injury for hemolysis has occurred if there is sufficient evidence in the medical record of an occurrence of hemolysis, and the patient received the associated countermeasure (VIGIV). Hemolysis occurring in the absence of the use of VIGIV and outside of the timeframe of 12 hours to 14 days after receiving VIGIV is not a Table 2 injury. Hemolysis occurring from a more likely alternative diagnosis, such as infections, toxins, poisons, hemodialysis, or medications, is not a Table 2 injury. This list of conditions that can cause hemolysis, not associated with VIGIV, is not exhaustive, and all additional diagnoses within the medical documentation will be evaluated.
