
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 5 - DESIGNATION OF HEALTH PROFESSIONAL(S) SHORTAGE AREAS
##### Appendix C to Part 5 - Criteria for Designation of Areas Having Shortages of Mental Health Professionals
###### Marriage and family therapist

(vi)means an individual (normally with a master's or doctoral degree in marital and family therapy and at least two years of supervised clinical experience) who is practicing as a marital and family therapist and is licensed or certified to do so by the State of practice; or, if licensure or certification is not required by the State of practice, is eligible for clinical membership in the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy.

(c) Practitioners who provide patient care to the population of an area only on a part-time basis (whether because they maintain another office elsewhere, spend some of their time providing services in a facility, are semi-retired, or operate a reduced practice for other reasons), will be counted on a partial basis through the use of full-time-equivalency calculations based on a 40-hour week. Every 4 hours (orday) spent providing patient care services in ambulatory or inpatient settings will be counted as 0.1 FTE, and each practitioner providing patient care for 40 or more hours per week as 1.0 FTE. Hours spent on research, teaching, vocational or educational counseling, and social services unrelated to mental health will be excluded; if a practitioner is located wholly or partially outside the service area, only those services actually provided within the area are to be counted.

(d) In some cases, practitioners located within an area may not be accessible to the general population of the area under consideration. Practitioners working in restricted facilities will be included on an FTE basis based on time spent outside the facility. Examples of restricted facilities include correctional institutions, youth detention facilities, residential treatment centers for emotionally disturbed or mentally retarded children, school systems, and inpatient units of State or county mental hospitals.

(e) In cases where there are mental health facilities or institutions providing both inpatient and outpatient services, only those FTEs providing mental health services in outpatient units or other short-term care units will be counted.

(f) Adjustments for the following factors will also be made in computing the number of FTE providers:

(i) Practitioners in residency programs will be counted as 0.5 FTE.

(ii) Graduates of foreign schools who are not citizens or lawful permanent residents of the United States will be excluded from counts.

(iii) Those graduates of foreign schools who are citizens or lawful permanent residents of the United States, and practice in certain settings, but do not have unrestricted licenses to practice, will be counted on a full-time-equivalency basis up to a maximum of 0.5 FTE.

(g) Practitioners suspended for a period of 18 months or more under provisions of the Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act will not be counted.
