
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 121 - ORGAN PROCUREMENT AND TRANSPLANTATION NETWORK
##### ยง 121.3 The OPTN.
###### Organization of the OPTN.

(a)(1) The OPTN shall establish a Board of Directors of whatever size the OPTN determines appropriate. The Board of Directors shall include:

(i) Approximately 50 percent transplant surgeons or transplant physicians;

(ii) At least 25 percent transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors and family members. These members should represent the diversity of the population of transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors and family members served by the OPTN including, to the extent practicable, the minority and gender diversity of this population. These members shall not be employees of, or have a similar relationship with OPOs, transplant centers, voluntary health organizations, transplant coordinators, histocompatibility experts, or other non-physician transplant professionals; however, the Board may waive this requirement for not more than 50 percent of these members; and

(iii) Representatives of OPOs, transplant hospitals, voluntary health associations, transplant coordinators, histocompatibility experts, non-physician transplant professionals, and the general public.

(2) The Board of Directors shall elect an Executive Committee from the membership of the Board. The Executive Committee shall include at least one general public member, one OPO representative, approximately 50 percent transplant surgeons and transplant physicians, and at least 25 percent transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors, and family members.

(3) The Board of Directors shall appoint an Executive Director of the OPTN. The Executive Director may be reappointed upon the Board's determination that the responsibilities of this position have been accomplished successfully.

(4) The Board of Directors shall establish such other committees as are necessary to perform the duties of the OPTN. Committees established by the Board of Directors shall include:

(i) Representation by transplant coordinators, organ procurement organizations, and transplant hospitals, and at least one transplant candidate, transplant recipient, organ donor or family member; and

(ii) To the extent practicable, minority and gender representation reflecting the diversity of the population of transplant candidates, transplant recipients, organ donors and family members served by the OPTN.
