
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 121 - ORGAN PROCUREMENT AND TRANSPLANTATION NETWORK
##### ยง 121.3 The OPTN.
###### Membership of the OPTN.

(b)(1) The OPTN shall admit and retain as members the following:

(i) All organ procurement organizations;

(ii) Transplant hospitals participating in the Medicare or Medicaid programs; and

(iii) Other organizations, institutions, and individuals that have an interest in the fields of organ donation or transplantation.

(2) To apply for membership in the OPTN:

(i) An OPO shall provide to the OPTN the name and address of the OPO, and the latest year of designation under section 1138(b) of the Social Security Act;

(ii) A transplant hospital shall provide to the OPTN the name and address of the hospital, a list of its transplant programs by type of organ; and

(iii) Any other organization, institution, or individual eligible under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section shall demonstrate to the OPTN an interest in the fields of organ donation or transplantation.

(3) The OPTN shall accept or reject as members entities or individuals described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section within 90 days.

(4) Applicants rejected for membership in the OPTN may appeal to the Secretary. Appeals shall be submitted in writing within 30 days of rejection of the application. The Secretary may:

(i) Deny the appeal; or

(ii) Direct the OPTN to take action consistent with the Secretary's response to the appeal.
