
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 121 - ORGAN PROCUREMENT AND TRANSPLANTATION NETWORK
##### ยง 121.5 Listing requirements.

(a) A transplant hospital which is an OPTN member may list individuals, consistent with the OPTN's criteria under ยง 121.8(b)(1), only for a designated transplant program.

(b) Transplant hospitals shall assure that individuals are placed on the waiting list as soon as they are determined to be candidates for transplantation. The OPTN shall advise transplant hospitals of the information needed for such listing.

(c) An OPTN member shall pay a registration fee to the OPTN for each transplant candidate it places on the waiting list. The amount of such fee shall be calculated to cover (together with contract funds awarded by the Secretary) the reasonable costs of operating the OPTN and shall be determined by the OPTN with the approval of the Secretary. No less often than annually, and whether or not a change is proposed, the OPTN shall submit to the Secretary a statement of its proposed registration fee, together with such supporting information as the Secretary finds necessary to determine the reasonableness or adequacy of the fee schedule and projected revenues. This submission is due at least three months before the beginning of the OPTN's fiscal year. The Secretary will approve, modify, or disapprove the amount of the fee within a reasonable time of receiving the OPTN's submission.
