
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart A - Project Grants for Public Medical Facility Construction and Modernization
###### ยง 124.4 Application.

An application for a grant under this subpart must be submitted directly to the Secretary at such time and in such form and manner as the Secretary may prescribe. The application must be executed by an individual authorized to act for the applicant and assume on behalf of the applicant the obligations imposed by the Act, this subpart, and the terms and conditions of the grant. The application must contain the following:

(a) A description of the site of the project.

(b) A full description, with all appropriate documentation, of:

(1) The imminent safety hazards, licensure and/or accreditation problems of the facility;

(2) The type and amount of assistance sought under this subpart;

(3) The construction of modernization project for which funds are sought, describing how it will remedy the problems described pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, with a complete schedule for the proposed construction or modernization; and

(4) How failure to remedy the problems described pursuant to paragraph (b) (1) of this section will affect the population served by the facility.

(c) In the case of a modernization project for continuation of existing health services, a finding by the State Agency of the continued need for such services. In the case of a construction or modernization project for new health services, a finding by the State Agency of the need for such services. The finding of need shall be based on the following criteria:

(1) In a State which has a program approved by the Secretary under section 1523(a)(4)(B) of the Act, a State certificate of need program, or a program under section 1122 of the Social Security Act, the State Agency shall use the criteria used in conducting reviews under such program. In a State which has more than one such program, the State Agency shall use the criteria of one of the programs and notify the Secretary of the program criteria used.

(2) In a State which does not have a program approved by the Secretary under section 1523(a)(4)(B) of the Act, a State certificate of need program or a program under section 1122 of the Social Security Act, the State Agency shall base its finding of need on the following criteria:
