
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart A - Project Grants for Public Medical Facility Construction and Modernization
###### ยง 124.5 Grant evaluation and award.

(a)(1) Within the limits of funds available for such purpose, the Secretary may award grants under this subpart for project costs to applicants with approvable applications therefor which will, in his judgment, best promote the purposes of section 1625 of the Act, taking into consideration:

(i) The severity and seriousness of the safety hazard, licensure or accreditation problem or problems.

(ii) The relative need of the population to be served for the services to be provided, including the availability of alternatives for meeting the need.

(iii) The financial need of the applicant.

(iv) The extent to which the facility will serve persons below the poverty level, as determined by the Secretary of Commerce.

(v) The extent to which the project will foster cost containment or improve the quality of care through enhanced efficiency and productivity.

(2) Priority for funding shall be based on the extent to which services will be made available relative to the cost of the project.

(b) The amount of any grant under this subpart may not exceed 75 percent of the cost of the project for which the grant is made unless the project is located in an area determined by the Secretary to be an urban or rural poverty area, in which case the grant may, as determined by the Secretary, cover up to 100 percent of such costs.

(c) If an applicant has not entered into a legally enforceable fixed price contract for the project for which funds are awarded under this subpart within 180 days of the date of the grant award, the grant award will automatically become null and void.

(d) Where a grant has been awarded to an applicant under this subpart on the condition that any applicable certificates of need and section 1122 finding required under ยง 124.4(f) will be provided, if such certificates and finding have not been received by the Secretary within 180 days of the grant award, the grant award will automatically become null and void.
