
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart A - Project Grants for Public Medical Facility Construction and Modernization
###### ยง 124.9 Nondiscrimination.
####### et seq.

(a) Attention is called to the requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 252, 42 U.S.C. 2000d) and in that particular section 601 of such Act which provides that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance. A regulation implementing such title VI, which is applicable to grants made under this subpart, has been issued by the Secretary with the approval of the President (45 CFR part 80).

(b) Attention is called to the requirements of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, which provides that no otherwise qualified handicapped individual in the United States shall, solely by reason of the handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance. A regulation implementing section 504 has been issued (45 CFR part 84 (42 FR 22676, May 4, 1977)).

(c) All portions and services of the entire facility for the construction or modernization of which, or in connection with which aid under the Act is sought must be made available without discrimination on account of creed and the applicant may not discriminate against any qualified person on account of creed with respect to the privilege of professional practice in the facility.

(d) Attention is also called to the requirements of title IX of the Education amendments of 1972 and in particular to section 901 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1681) which provides that no person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance (45 CFR part 86).

(e) Each construction contract is subject to the condition that the applicant shall comply with the requirements of section 321 of the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970, as amended, which provides that alcohol abusers and alcoholics who are suffering from medical conditions shall not be discriminated against in admission or treatment, solely because of their alcohol abuse or alcoholism by any private or public general hospital that receives support in any form from any federally funded program.

(f) Each construction contract is subject to the condition that the applicant shall comply with the requirements of section 407 of the Drug Abuse Office and Treatment Act of 1972, as amended, which provides that drug abusers who are suffering from medical conditions shall not be discriminated against because of their drug abuse or drug dependence, by any private or public general hospital that receives support in any form from any federally funded program.
