
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart F - Reasonable Volume of Uncompensated Services to Persons Unable To Pay
###### § 124.511 Investigation and determination of compliance.
####### Complaints.

(a)A complaint that a facility is out of compliance with the requirements of this subpart may be filed with the Secretary by any person.

(1) A complaint is considered to be filed with the Secretary on the date the following information is received in the Office of the HHS Regional Health Administrator for the Region in which the facility is located:

(i) The name and address of the person making the complaint or on whose behalf the complaint is made;

(ii) The name and location of the facility;

(iii) The date or approximate date on which the event occurred; and

(iv) A statement of what actions the complainant considers to violate the requirements of this subpart.

(2) The Secretary promptly provides a copy of the complaint to the facility named in the complaint.

(3) When the Secretary investigates a facility, the facility, including a facility certified under § 124.513, § 124.514, § 124.515, § 124.516, or § 124.517, shall provide to the Secretary on request any documents, records and other information concerning its operation that relate to the requirements of this subpart. A facility will be presumed to be out of compliance with its assurance unless it supplies documentation sufficient to show compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart.

(4) Section 1627 of the Act provides that if the Secretary dimisses a complaint or the Attorney General has not brought an action for compliance within six months from the date on which the compliant is filed, the person filing it may bring a private action to effectuate compliance with the assurance. If the Secretary determines that he/she will be unable to issue a decision on a complaint or otherwise take appropriate action within the six month period, the Secretary may, based on priorities for the disposition of complaints that are established to promote the most effective use of enforcement resources, or on the request of the applicant, dismiss the complaint without a finding as to compliance prior to the end of the six month period, but no earlier than 45 days after the complaint is filed.
