
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart F - Reasonable Volume of Uncompensated Services to Persons Unable To Pay
###### ยง 124.515 Compliance alternative for community health centers, migrant health centers and certain National Health Service Corps sites.
####### Title XVI-assisted facilities.

(3)(i) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act which has an assessed deficit which was not made up prior to certification under this section shall make up that deficit in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. If it cannot make the showing required by that paragraph, it shall make up the deficit when it is no longer certified under this section.

(ii) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act whose compliance with this subpart has not been completely assessed will be presumed to have no allowable credit for the unassessed period. The facility may make up the deficit by-

(A) Following the procedure of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section; or

(B) Submitting an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to ยง 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
