
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart G - Community Service
###### ยง 124.606 Investigation and enforcement.
####### Investigations.

(a)(1) The Secretary periodically investigates the compliance of facilities with the requirements of this subpart, and investigates complaints.

(2)(i) A complaint is filed with the Secretary on the date on which the following information is received in the Office of the Regional Health Administrator for the Region of HHS in which the facility is located:

(A) The name and address of the person making the complaint or on whose behalf the complaint is made;

(B) The name and location of the facility;

(C) The date or approximate date on which the event complained of occurred, and

(D) A statement of what actions the complainant considers to violate the requirements of this subpart.

(ii) The Secretary promptly provides a copy of the complaint to each facility named in the complaint.

(3) When the Secretary investigates a facility, the facility shall provide to the Secretary on request any documents, records and other information concerning its operations that relate to the requirements of this subpart.

(4) The Act provides that if the Secretary dismisses a complaint or the Attorney General has not brought an action for compliance within six months from the date on which the complaint is filed, the person filing it may bring a private action to effectuate compliance with the assurance. If the Secretary determines that he will be unable to issue a decision on a complaint or otherwise take appropriate action within the six month period, he may, based on priorities for the disposition of complaints that are established to promote the most effective use of enforcement resources, or on the request of the complainant, dismiss the complaint without a finding as to compliance prior to the end of the six month period, but no earlier than 45 days after the complaint is filed.
