
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Health Resources Development
#### PART 124 - MEDICAL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION
##### Subpart H - Recovery of Grant Funds
###### ยง 124.707 Waiver of recovery where facility is sold or transferred to a proprietary entity.
####### Computation of recovery amount.

(ii)The Secretary will determine the recovery amount as provided in ยง 124.705.

(2) Within 60 days following the date of the Secretary's letter provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner of the facility shall notify the Secretary in writing that it either:

(i) Accepts the trust fund amount for the waiver as offered by the Secretary;

(ii) Provides a detailed statement of an alternative determination of the recovery amount or an independent audit of the remaining uncompensated services obligation as described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; or

(iii) Does not seek a waiver under ยง 124.707. Failure to provide a timely response to the Secretary under this subparagraph will be considered an election not to seek the waiver.

(3) Within 30 days following the receipt of the owner's views concerning the calculation, and after considering those views, the Secretary will send a final letter providing the Secretary's determination of twice the remaining uncompensated care obligation and the recovery amount under ยง 124.705. The amount to be placed in the irrevocable trust will be the higher of those two figures. (See paragraph (a)(2) of this section.)

(4) Within 30 days of the date of the final letter, the owner of the facility shall notify the Secretary in writing whether or not it accepts the terms of the waiver. Failure to provide timely notice to the Secretary under this subparagraph will be considered an election not to accept the waiver.
