
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 136 - INDIAN HEALTH
##### Subpart H - Grants for Development, Construction, and Operation of Facilities and Services
###### ยง 136.105 Project elements.

A project supported under this subpart must:

(a) Have sufficient, adequately trained staff in relation to the scope of the project.

(b) Maintain a mechanism for dealing with complaints regarding the delivery of health services or performance of project activities.

(c) Hold confidential all information obtained by the personnel of the project from participants in the project related to their examination, care, and treatment, and shall not release such information without the individuals' consent except as may be required by law, as may be necessary to provide service to the individual, or as may be necessary to monitor the operations of this program or otherwise protect the public health. Information may be disclosed in a form which does not identify particular individuals.

(d) Operate with the approval, support, and involvement of the tribe, tribes, or Indian communities in the area served by the local facility and program.

(e) Keep in force adequate liability insurance in accordance with the approved application unless the Secretary, for good cause shown, has determined that such insurance was not obtainable or appropriate or has determined that such insurance may be permitted to expire or lapse. The insurance shall provide that prior to cancellation the Secretary must be notified and must further provide that for each such policy of insurance the carrier shall waive any right it may have to raise as a defense the tribe's sovereign immunity from suit but such waiver shall extend only to claims the amount and nature of which are within the coverage and limits of the policy and shall not authorize or empower the insurance carrier to waive or otherwise limit the tribe's sovereign immunity outside or beyond the coverage and limits of the policy of insurance.

(f) Provide services at a level and range which is not less than that provided by the Indian Health Service or that identified by the Service as an appropriate level, range, and standard of care.
