
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 136 - INDIAN HEALTH
##### Subpart H - Grants for Development, Construction, and Operation of Facilities and Services
###### ยง 136.106 Grant award and evaluation.

(a) Within the limits of funds determined by the Secretary to be available for such purpose, the Secretary may award grants under this subpart to applicants whose project will, in the judgment of the Secretary, best promote the purposes of the Act, and the regulations of this subpart, taking into account:

(1) The apparent capability of the applicant to organize and manage the proposed project successfully considering, among other things the adequacy of staff, management systems, equipment and facilities.

(2) The soundness of the applicant's plan for conducting the project and for assuring effective utilization of grant funds.

(3) The adequacy of the budget in relation to the scope of the project and available funds.

(4) The relative effectiveness of the applicant's plan, as set forth in the application, to carry out each of the requirements ยง 136.105.

(5) The compatibility of the proposed project with the published goals and responsibilities of the IHS in carrying out its statutory mission.

(b) The Notice of Grant Awards specifies how long the Secretary intends to support the project period without requiring the project to re-compete for funds. This period, called the project period, will usually be for one to two years. The total project period comprises the original project period and any extension. Generally the grant will be for a one-year budget period, any subsequent award will also be a one-year budget period. A grantee must submit a separate application for each subsequent year. Decisions regarding continuation awards and the funding level of such awards will be made after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices, and the availability of funds. In all cases, awards require a determination by the Secretary that funding is in the best interest of the Federal Government.

(c) Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any grant commits or obligates the Federal Government in any way to make any additional, supplemental, continuation or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application.
