
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 136 - INDIAN HEALTH
##### Subpart K - Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention
###### ยง 136.415 What rights does an individual have during this process?

(a) The individual must be provided an opportunity to explain, deny, or refute unfavorable and incorrect information gathered in an investigation, before the adjudication is final. He/she should receive a written summary of all derogatory information and be informed of the process for explaining, denying, or refuting unfavorable information.

(b) The adjudicating officials must not release the actual background investigative report to an individual. However, they may issue a written summary of the derogatory information.

(c) The individual who is the subject of a background investigation may request, to the extent permissible by law, a copy of the reports from the originating (Federal, State, or other Tribal) agency and challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information maintained by that agency.

(d) The results of an investigation cannot be used for any purpose other than to determine eligibility for employment in a position that involves regular contact with or control over Indian children.

(e) Investigative reports contain information of a highly personal nature and must be maintained confidentially and secured in locked files. Investigative reports must be seen only by those officials who, in performing their official duties, need to know the information contained in the report.
