
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 136a - INDIAN HEALTH
##### Subpart B - What Services Are Available and Who Is Eligible To Receive Care?
###### ยง 136a.14 Reconsideration and appeals.

(a) Any person who has applied for and been denied health services or eligibility by the Indian Health Service or by any contractor contracting to administer an Indian Health Service program or portion of a program, including tribes and tribal organizations contracting under the Indian Self-Determination Act, shall be notified of the denial in writing together with a statement of all the reasons for the denial. The notice shall advise the applicant that within 30 days from the receipt of the notice the applicant.

(b) If the original decision is affirmed on reconsideration, the applicant shall be so notified in writing and advised that an appeal may be taken to the area or program director within 30 days of receipt of the notice of the reconsidered decision. The appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth the grounds supporting the appeal.

(c) If the original or reconsidered decision is affirmed on appeal by the area or program director, the applicant shall be so notified in writing and advised that a further appeal may be taken to the Director, Indian Health Service, within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth the grounds supporting the appeal. The decision of the Director, Indian Health Service, shall constitute final administrative action.
