
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 136a - INDIAN HEALTH
##### Subpart B - What Services Are Available and Who Is Eligible To Receive Care?
###### ยง 136a.15 Health Service Delivery Areas.

(a) The Indian Health Service will designate and publish as a notice in thespecific geographic areas within the United States including Federal Indian reservations and areas surrounding those reservations as Health Service Delivery Areas.

(b) The Indian Health Service may, after consultation with all the Indian tribes affected, redesignate the boundaries of any Health Service Delivery Area followed by publication of a notice in theAny redesignation of a Health Service Delivery area will include the reservation, and those areas close to the reservation boundaries which can reasonably be considered part of the reservation service area based on consideration of the following factors:

(1) The number of persons residing in the off-reservation area who would be eligible under ยง 36a.12(a) (1) and (3).

(2) The number of persons residing in the off-reservation area who have traditionally received health services from the Indian Health Service and whose eligibility for services would be affected;

(3) The geographic proximity of the off-reservation area to the reservation; and

(4) Whether the Indians residing in the off-reservation area can be expected to need and to use health services provided by the Indian Health Service given the alternate resources (health facilities and payment sources) available and accessible to them.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Indian Health Service may designate States, subdivisions of States such as counties or towns, or other identifiable geographic areas such as census divisions or zip code areas, as Health Service Delivery Areas where reservations are nonexistent, or so small and scattered and the eligible Indian population so widely dispersed that it is inappropriate to use reservations as the basis for defining the Health Service Delivery Area.

(d) Any Indian tribal government may request a change in the boundaries of the Health Service Delivery Area. Such a request should be supported by documentation related to the factors for consideration set out in paragraph (b) of this section and shall include documentation of any consultation with or notification of other affected or nearby tribes. The request shall be submitted to the appropriate Area Director(s) who shall afford all Indian tribes affected the opportunity to express their views orally and in writing. The Area Director(s) shall then submit the request, including all comments, together with the Area's recommendation and independent findings or verification of the factors set out in paragraph (b) of this section, to the Indian Health Service Director or to the Director's designee for the Indian Health Service decision. The decision of the Indian Health Service Director or the Director's designee shall constitute final agency action on the tribe's request. Changes in the boundaries of Health Service Delivery Areas will be published in the
