
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 137 - TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE
##### Subpart I - Operational Provisions
###### Access to Government Furnished Property
####### ยง 137.215 How does a Self-Governance Tribe obtain title to real and personal property furnished by the Federal Government for use in the performance of a compact, funding agreement, construction project agreement, or grant agreement pursuant to section 512(c) of the Act [25 U.S.C. 458aaa-11(c)]?

(a) For government-furnished real and personal property made available to a Self-Governance Tribe, the Self-Governance Tribe must take title to all real or personal property unless the Self-Governance Tribe requests that the United States retain the title.

(b) For government-furnished personal property made available to a Self-Governance Tribe:

(1) The Secretary, in consultation with each Self-Governance Tribe, must develop a list of the property used in a compact, funding agreement, or construction project agreement.

(2) The Self-Governance Tribe must indicate any items on the list to which the Self-Governance Tribe wants the Secretary to retain title.

(3) The Secretary must provide the Self-Governance Tribe with any documentation needed to transfer title to the remaining listed property to the Self-Governance Tribe.

(c) For government-furnished real property made available to a Self-Governance Tribe:

(1) The Secretary, in consultation with the Self-Governance Tribe, must develop a list of the property furnished for use in a compact, funding agreement, or construction project agreement.

(2) The Secretary must inspect any real property on the list to determine the presence of any hazardous substance activity, as defined in 41 CFR 101-47.202-2(b)(10).

(3) The Self-Governance Tribe must indicate on the list to the Secretary any items of real property to which the Self-Governance Tribe wants the Secretary to retain title and those items of property to which the Self-Governance Tribe wishes to obtain title. The Secretary must take such steps as necessary to transfer title to the Self-Governance Tribe those items of real property which the Self-Governance Tribe wishes to acquire.
