
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 137 - TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE
##### Subpart N - Construction
###### Construction Definitions
####### ยง 137.280 Construction Definitions.

ALJ means administrative law judge.

APA means Administrative Procedures Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706.

Budget means a statement of the funds required to complete the scope of work in a construction project agreement. For cost reimbursement agreements, budgets may be stated using broad categories such as planning, design, construction, project administration, and contingency. For fixed price agreements, budgets may be stated as lump sums, unit cost pricing, or a combination thereof.

Categorical exclusion means a category of actions that do not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and that have been found to have no such effect in procedures adopted by a Federal agency in implementation of these regulations and for which, therefore, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required. Any procedures under this section shall provide for extraordinary circumstances in which a normally excluded action may have a significant environmental effect.

CEQ means Council on Environmental Quality in the Office of the President.

Construction management services (CMS) means activities limited to administrative support services; coordination; and monitoring oversight of the planning, design, and construction process. CMS activities typically include:

(1) Coordination and information exchange between the Self-Governance Tribe and the Federal Government;

(2) Preparation of a Self-Governance Tribe's project agreement; and

(3) A Self-Governance Tribe's subcontract scope of work identification and subcontract preparation, and competitive selection of construction contract subcontractors.

Construction phase is the phase of a construction project agreement during which the project is constructed, and includes labor, materials, equipment and services necessary to complete the work, in accordance with the construction project agreement.

Construction project means:

(1) An organized noncontinuous undertaking to complete a specific set of predetermined objectives for the planning, environmental determination, design, construction, repair, improvement, or expansion of buildings or facilities described in a project agreement, and

(2) Does not include construction program administration and activities described in sections 4(m)(1) through (3) of the Act [25 U.S.C. 4b(m)(1) through (3)], that may otherwise be included in a funding agreement under section 505 of the Act [25 U.S.C. 458aaa-4].

Construction project agreement means a negotiated agreement between the Secretary and a Self-Governance Tribe, that at a minimum:

(1) Establishes project phase start and completion dates;

(2) Defines a specific scope of work and standards by which it will be accomplished;

(3) Identifies the responsibilities of the Self-Governance Tribe and the Secretary;

(4) Addresses environmental considerations;

(5) Identifies the owner and operations and maintenance entity of the proposed work;

(6) Provides a budget;

(7) Provides a payment process; and

(8) Establishes the duration of the agreement based on the time necessary to complete the specified scope of work, which may be 1 or more years.

Design phase is the phase of a construction project agreement during which project plans, specifications, and other documents are prepared that are used to build the project. Site investigation, final site selection activities and environmental review and determination activities are completed in this phase if not conducted as a part of the planning phase.

Maintenance and improvement program:

(1) As used in this subpart means the program that provides funds for eligible facilities for the purpose of:

(i) Performing routine maintenance;

(ii) Achieving compliance with accreditation standards;

(iii) Improving and renovating facilities;

(iv) Ensuring that Indian health care facilities meet existing building codes and standards; and

(v) Ensuring compliance with public law building requirements.

(2) The maintenance and improvement program is comprised of routine maintenance and repair funding and project funding. Typical maintenance and improvement projects have historically been funded out of regional or national project pools and may include, but are not limited to, total replacement of a heating or cooling system, remodel of a medical laboratory, removal of lead based paint, abatement of asbestos and abatement of underground fuel storage tanks. Maintenance and repair program funding provided under a funding agreement is not covered under this subpart.
