
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 137 - TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE
##### Subpart N - Construction
###### Roles of the Secretary in Establishing and Implementing Construction Project Agreements
####### ยง 137.365 What is the procedure for the Secretary's review and approval of project planning and design documents submitted by the Self-Governance Tribe?

(a) The Secretary shall review and approve planning documents to ensure compliance with planning standards identified in the construction project agreement. The Secretary shall review and approve design documents for general compliance with requirements of the construction project agreement.

(b) The Secretary shall promptly notify the Self-Governance Tribe in writing of any concerns or issues that may lead to disapproval. The Secretary shall share relevant information and documents, and make a good faith effort to resolve all issues and concerns of the Self-Governance Tribe. If, after consultation with the Self-Governance Tribe, the Secretary intends to disapprove the documents, then the Secretary shall follow the procedures set forth in ยง 137.333.

(c) The time allowed for Secretarial review, comment, and approval of planning and design documents is 21 days, unless otherwise agreed to by the Self-Governance Tribe in writing. Absence of a written response by the Secretary within 21 days shall be deemed approved.
