
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 6 - FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT COVERAGE OF CERTAIN GRANTEES AND INDIVIDUALS
##### ยง 6.6 Covered acts and omissions.
###### Examples.

(e)The following are examples of situations within the scope of paragraph (d) of this section:

(1) A community health center deemed to be a covered entity establishes a school-based or school-linked health program as part of its grant supported activity. Even though the students treated are not necessarily registered patients of the center, the center and its health care practitioners will be covered for services provided, if the Secretary makes the determination in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(2) A migrant health center requires its physicians to obtain staff privileges at a community hospital. As a condition of obtaining such privileges, and thus being able to admit the center's patients to the hospital, the physicians must agree to provide occasional coverage of the hospital's emergency room. The Secretary would be authorized to determine that this coverage is necessary to facilitate the provision of services to the grantee's patients, and that it would therefore be covered by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(3) A homeless health services grantee makes arrangements with local community providers for after-hours coverage of its patients. The grantee's physicians are required by their employment contracts to provide periodic cross-coverage for patients of these providers, in order to make this arrangement feasible. The Secretary may determine that the arrangement is within the scope of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(4) For the specific activities described in this paragraph (e)(4), when carried out by an entity (and its eligible personnel) that has been covered under paragraph (c) of this section, the Department has determined that coverage is provided under paragraph (d) of this section, without the need for specific application for an additional coverage determination under paragraph (d) of this section, if the activity or arrangement in question fits squarely within these descriptions; otherwise, the health center should seek a particularized determination of coverage.
