
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 6 - FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT COVERAGE OF CERTAIN GRANTEES AND INDIVIDUALS
##### ยง 6.6 Covered acts and omissions.
###### Community-Wide Interventions.

(i)(A) School-Based Clinics: Health center staff provide primary and preventive health care services at a facility located in a school or on school grounds. The health center has a written affiliation agreement with the school.

(B) School-Linked Clinics: Health center staff provide primary and preventive health care services, at a site not located on school grounds, to students of one or more schools. The health center has a written affiliation agreement with each school.

(C) Health Fairs: On behalf of the health center, health center staff conduct or participate in an event to attract community members for purposes of performing health assessments. Such events may be held in the health center, outside on its grounds, or elsewhere in the community.

(D) Immunization Campaigns: On behalf of the health center, health center staff conduct or participate in an event to immunize individuals against infectious illnesses. The event may be held at the health center, schools, or elsewhere in the community.

(E) Migrant Camp Outreach: Health center staff travel to a migrant farmworker residence camp to conduct intake screening to determine those in need of clinic services (which may mean health care is provided at the time of such intake activity or during subsequent clinic staff visits to the camp).

(F) Homeless Outreach: Health center staff travel to a shelter for homeless persons, or a street location where homeless persons congregate, to conduct intake screening to determine those in need of clinic services (which may mean health care is provided at the time of such intake activity or during subsequent clinic staff visits to that location).
