
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter M - Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 137 - TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE
##### Subpart P - Appeals
###### Pre-Award Disputes
####### ยง 137.425 How does an Indian Tribe appeal the initial decision if it does not request an informal conference or if it does not agree with the recommended decision resulting from the informal conference?

(a) If the Indian Tribe decides to appeal, it must file a notice of appeal with the IBIA within 30 days of receiving either the initial decision or the recommended decision from the informal conference.

(b) The Indian Tribe may either hand-deliver the notice of appeal to the IBIA, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Indian Tribe mails the Notice of Appeal, it will be considered filed on the date the Indian Tribe mailed it by certified mail. The Indian Tribe should mail the notice of appeal to: Board of Indian Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior,801 North Quincy St., Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203.

(c) The Notice of Appeal must:

(1) Briefly state why the Indian Tribe thinks the initial decision is wrong;

(2) Briefly identify the issues involved in the appeal; and

(3) State whether the Indian Tribe wants a hearing on the record, or whether the Indian Tribe wants to waive its right to a hearing.

(d) The Indian Tribe must serve a copy of the notice of appeal upon the official whose decision it is appealing. The Indian Tribe must certify to the IBIA that it has done so.

(e) The authorized representative of the Secretary will be considered a party to all appeals filed with the IBIA under the Act.

(f) In lieu of filing an administrative appeal an Indian Tribe may proceed directly to Federal court pursuant to section 110 of the Act [25 U.S.C. 450m-1].
