
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality and Disclosure
###### § 401.130 Materials available at social security district offices and branch offices.
####### Materials available for inspection and copying.

(b)The following materials are available or will be made available for inspection and copying at the social security district offices and branch offices:

(1) Claims Manual of the Social Security Administration.

(2) Department Staff Manual on Organization, Department of Health and Human Services, Part F, CMS.

(3) Parts 2 and 3 of the Part A

(4) Parts 2 and 3 of the Part B Intermediary Manual (Physician and Supplier Services).

(5) Intermediary Letters Related to Parts 2 and 3 of the Part A and Part B Intermediary Manuals.

(6) State Buy-In Handbook (State Enrollment of Eligible Individuals under the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program) and Letters.

(7) Group Practice Prepayment Plan Manual (HIM-8) and Letters.

(8) State Operations Manual (HIM-7).

(9) CMS Letters to State Agencies on Medicare.

(10) Skilled Nursing Facility Manual (CMS Pub. 12).

(11) Hearing Officers Handbook (Supplementary Medical Insurance Program-HIM-21).

(12) Hospital Manual (HIM-10).

(13) Home Health Agency Manual (HIM-11).

(14) Outpatient Physical Therapy Provider Manual (HIM-9).

(15) Provider Reimbursement Manual (HIM-15).

(16) Audit Program Manuals for Hospital (HIM-16), Home Health Agency (HIM-17), and Extended Care Facilities (HIM-18).

(17) Statements of deficiencies based upon survey reports of health care institutions or facilities prepared after January 31, 1973, by a State agency, and such reports (including pertinent written statements furnished by such institution or facility on such statements of deficiencies), as set forth in § 401.133(a). Except as otherwise provided for at §§ 401.133 and 488.325 of this chapter for SNFs, such statements of deficiencies, reports, and pertinent written statements shall be available or made available only at the social security district office and regional office servicing the area in which the institution or facility is located, except that such statements of deficiencies and pertinent written statements shall also be available at the local public assistance offices servicing such area.

(18) Indexes to the materials listed in paragraph (a) of this section and in this paragraph (b) and an index to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals Handbook.
