
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Confidentiality and Disclosure
###### ยง 401.148 Administrative review.
####### Review by the Administrator.

(a)A person whose request has been denied may initiate a review by filing a request for review with the Administrator of CMS, 700 East High Rise Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235, within 30 days of receipt of the determination to deny or within 30 days of receipt of records which are in partial response to his request if a portion of a request is granted and a portion denied, whichever is later. Upon receipt of a timely request for review, the Administrator will review the decision in question and the findings upon which it was based. Upon the basis of the data considered in connection with the decision and whatever other evidence and written argument is submitted by the person requesting the review or which is otherwise obtained, the Administrator or his designee will affirm or revise in whole or in part the findings and decision in question. A decision to affirm the denial will be made only upon concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, or his designee, after consultation with the General Counsel or his or her designee, and the appropriate program policy official. Written notice of the decision of the Administrator will be mailed to the person who requested the review. A written decision will be made within 20 working days from receipt of the request for review. Extension of the time limit may be granted under the circumstances listed in ยง 401.136(b) to the extent that the maximum 10 days limit on extensions has not been exhausted on the initial determination. The decision will include the basis for it and will advise the requester of his right to judicial review.
