
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Availability of Medicare Data for Performance Measurement
###### ยง 401.711 Updates to plans submitted as part of the application process.

(a) If a qualified entity wishes to make changes to the following parts of its previously-approved application:

(1) Its list of proposed measures-the qualified entity must send all the information referenced in ยง 401.707(a) for the new measures to CMS at least 30 days before its intended confidential release to providers and suppliers.

(2) Its proposed prototype report-the qualified entity must send the new prototype report to CMS at least 30 days before its intended confidential release to providers and suppliers.

(3) Its plans for sharing the reports with the public-the qualified entity must send the new plans to CMS at least 30 days before its intended confidential release to providers and suppliers.

(b) CMS will notify the qualified entity when the entity's proposed changes are approved or denied for use, generally within 30 days of the qualified entity submitting the changes to CMS. If a CMS decision on approval or disapproval for a change is not forthcoming within 30 days and CMS does not request an additional 30 days for review, the change or modification shall be deemed to be approved.

(c) If the amount of claims data from other sources available to a qualified entity decreases, the qualified entity must immediately inform CMS and submit documentation that the remaining claims data from other sources is sufficient to address the methodological concerns regarding sample size and reliability. Under no circumstances may a qualified entity use Medicare data to create a report, use a measure, or share a report after the amount of claims data from other sources available to a qualified entity decreases until CMS determines either that the remaining claims data is sufficient or that the qualified entity has collected adequate additional data to address any deficiencies.

(1) If the qualified entity cannot submit the documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section, or if CMS determines that the remaining claims data is not sufficient, CMS will afford the qualified entity up to 120 days to obtain additional claims to address any deficiencies. If the qualified entity does not have access to sufficient new data after that time, CMS will terminate its relationship with the qualified entity.

(2) If CMS determines that the remaining claims data is sufficient, the qualified entity may continue issuing reports, using measures, and sharing reports.
