
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Availability of Medicare Data for Performance Measurement
###### ยง 401.713 Ensuring the privacy and security of data.
####### Data use agreement between CMS and a qualified entity.

(a)A qualified entity must comply with the data requirements in its data use agreement with CMS (hereinafter the CMS DUA). Contractors (including, where applicable, business associates) of qualified entities that are anticipated to have access to the Medicare claims data or beneficiary identifiable data in the context of this program are also required to execute and comply with the CMS DUA. The CMS DUA will require the qualified entity to maintain privacy and security protocols throughout the duration of the agreement with CMS, and will ban the use or disclosure of Medicare data or any derivative data for purposes other than those set out in this subpart. The CMS DUA will also prohibit the use of unsecured telecommunications to transmit such data, and will specify the circumstances under which such data must be stored and may be transmitted.

(b) A qualified entity must inform each beneficiary whose beneficiary identifiable data has been (or is reasonably believed to have been) inappropriately accessed, acquired, or disclosed in accordance with the DUA.

(c) Contractor(s) must report to the qualified entity whenever there is an incident where beneficiary identifiable data has been (or is reasonably believed to have been) inappropriately accessed, acquired, or disclosed.
