
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Availability of Medicare Data for Performance Measurement
###### ยง 401.715 Selection and use of performance measures.
####### Standard measures.

(a)A standard measure is a measure that can be calculated in full or in part from claims data from other sources and the standardized extracts of Medicare Parts A and B claims, and Part D prescription drug event data and meets the following requirements:

(1) Meets one of the following criteria:

(i) Is endorsed by the entity with a contract under section 1890(a) of the Social Security Act.

(ii) Is time-limited endorsed by the entity with a contract under section 1890(a) of the Social Security Act until such time as the full endorsement status is determined.

(iii) Is developed under section 931 of the Public Health Service Act.

(iv) Can be calculated from standardized extracts of Medicare Parts A or B claims or Part D prescription drug event data, was adopted through notice-and-comment rulemaking, and is currently being used in CMS programs that include quality measurement.

(v) Is endorsed by a CMS-approved consensus-based entity. CMS will approve organizations as consensus-based entities based on review of documentation of the consensus-based entity's measure approval process. To receive approval as a consensus-based entity, an organization must submit information to CMS documenting its processes for stakeholder consultation and measures approval; an organization will only receive approval as a consensus-based entity if all measure specifications are publically available. An organization will retain CMS acceptance as a consensus-based entity for 3 years after the approval date, at which time CMS will review new documentation of the consensus-based entity's measure approval process for a new 3-year approval.

(2) Is used in a manner that follows the measure specifications as written (or as adopted through notice-and-comment rulemaking), including all numerator and denominator inclusions and exclusions, measured time periods, and specified data sources.
