
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Availability of Medicare Data for Performance Measurement
###### ยง 401.715 Selection and use of performance measures.
####### Stakeholder consultation approval process:

(ii)Has been found by the Secretary, using documentation submitted by a qualified entity that outlines its consultation and agreement with stakeholders in its community, to be more valid, responsive to consumer preferences, cost-effective, or relevant to dimensions of quality and resource use not addressed by standard measures, and is used by a qualified entity in a manner that follows the measure specifications as submitted, including all numerator and denominator inclusions and exclusions, measured time periods, and specified data sources. If a CMS decision on approval or disapproval of alternative measures submitted using the stakeholder consultation approval process is not forthcoming within 60 days of submission of the measure by the qualified entity, the measure will be deemed approved. However, CMS retains the right to disapprove a measure if, even after 60 days, we find it to not be "more valid, reliable, responsive to consumer preferences, cost-effective, or relevant to dimensions of quality and resource" than a standard measure.

(2) An alternative measure approved under the process at paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may be used by any qualified entity. An alternative measure approved under the process at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section may only be used by the qualified entity that submitted the measure for consideration by the Secretary. A qualified entity may use an alternative measure up until the point that an equivalent standard measure for the particular clinical area or condition becomes available at which point the qualified entity must switch to the standard measure within 6 months or submit additional scientific justification and receive approval, via either paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, from the Secretary to continue using the alternative measure.

(3) To submit an alternative measure for consideration under the notice-and-comment-rulemaking process, for use in the calendar year following the submission, an entity must submit the following information by May 31st:

(i) The name of the alternative measure.

(ii) The name of the developer or owner of the alternative measure.

(iii) Detailed specifications for the alternative measure.

(iv) Evidence that use of the alternative measure would be more valid, reliable, responsive to consumer preferences, cost-effective, or relevant to dimensions of quality and resource use not addressed by standard measures.

(4) To submit an alternative measure for consideration under the documentation of stakeholder consultation approval process described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, for use once the measure is approved by the Secretary, an entity must submit the following information to CMS:

(i) The name of the alternative measure.

(ii) The name of the developer or owner of the alternative measure.

(iii) Detailed specifications for the alternative measure.

(iv) A description of the process by which the qualified entity notified stakeholders in the geographic region it serves of its intent to seek approval of an alternative measure. Stakeholders must include a valid cross representation of providers, suppliers, payers, employers, and consumers.

(v) A list of stakeholders from whom feedback was solicited, including the stakeholders' names and roles in the community.

(vi) A description of the discussion about the proposed alternative measure, including a summary of all pertinent arguments supporting and opposing the measure.

(vii) Unless CMS has already approved the same measure for use by another qualified entity, no new scientific evidence on the measure is available, and the subsequent qualified entity wishes to rely upon the scientific evidence submitted by the previously approved applicant, an explanation backed by scientific evidence that demonstrates why the measure is more valid, reliable, responsive to consumer preferences, cost-effective, or relevant to dimensions of quality and resource use not addressed by a standard measure.
