
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Availability of Medicare Data for Performance Measurement
###### § 401.716 Non-public analyses.
####### Limitations on a qualified entity.

(b)In addition to meeting the other requirements of this subpart, a qualified entity must comply with the following limitations as a pre-condition of dissemination or selling non-public analyses to an authorized user:

(1) A qualified entity may only provide or sell a non-public analysis to a health insurance issuer as defined in § 401.703(l), after the health insurance issuer or a business associate of that health insurance issuer has provided the qualified entity with claims data that represents a majority of the health insurance issuer's covered lives, using one of the four methods of calculating covered lives established at 26 CFR 46.4375-1(c)(2), for the time period and geographic region covered by the issuer-requested non-public analyses. A qualified entity may not provide or sell a non-public analysis to a health insurance issuer if the issuer does not have any covered lives in the geographic region covered by the issuer-requested non-public analysis.

(2) Analyses that contain information that individually identifies one or more beneficiaries may only be disclosed to a provider or supplier (as defined at § 401.703(b) and (c)) when both of the following conditions are met:

(i) The analyses only contain identifiable information on beneficiaries with whom the provider or supplier have a patient relationship as defined at § 401.703(r).

(ii) A QE DUA as defined at § 401.713(d) is executed between the qualified entity and the provider or supplier prior to making any individually identifiable beneficiary information available to the provider or supplier.

(3) Except as specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, all analyses must be limited to beneficiary de-identified data. Regardless of the HIPAA covered entity or business associate status of the qualified entity and/or the authorized user, de-identification must be determined based on the standards for HIPAA covered entities found at 45 CFR 164.514(b).

(4) Analyses that contain information that individually identifies a provider or supplier (regardless of the level of the provider or supplier, that is, individual clinician, group of clinicians, or integrated delivery system) may not be disclosed unless one of the following three conditions apply:

(i) The analysis only individually identifies the provider or supplier that is being supplied the analysis.

(ii) Every provider or supplier individually identified in the analysis has been afforded the opportunity to appeal or correct errors using the process at § 401.717(f).

(iii) Every provider or supplier individually identified in the analysis has notified the qualified entity, in writing, that analyses can be disclosed to the authorized user without first going through the appeal and error correction process at § 401.717(f).
