
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 401 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Availability of Medicare Data for Performance Measurement
###### § 401.716 Non-public analyses.
####### Non-public analyses agreement between a qualified entity and an authorized user for beneficiary de-identified non-public analyses disclosures.

(c)In addition to the other requirements of this subpart, a qualified entity must enter a contractually binding non-public analyses agreement with the authorized user (including any contractors or business associates described in the definition of authorized user) as a pre-condition to providing or selling de-identified analyses. Such non-public analyses agreement must contain the following provisions:

(1) The authorized user may not use the analyses or derivative data for the following purposes:

(i) Marketing, as defined at § 401.703(s).

(ii) Harming or seeking to harm patients or other individuals both within and outside the healthcare system regardless of whether their data are included in the analyses.

(iii) Effectuating or seeking opportunities to effectuate fraud and/or abuse in the healthcare system.

(2) If the authorized user is an employer as defined in § 401.703(k), the authorized user may only use the analyses or derivative data for purposes of providing health insurance to employees, retirees, or dependents of employees or retirees of that employer.

(3)(i) At the qualified entity's discretion, it may permit an authorized user that is a provider as defined in § 401.703(b) or a supplier as defined in § 401.703(c), to re-disclose the de-identified analyses or derivative data, as a covered entity will be permitted under 45 CFR 164.506(c)(4)(i), or under 45 CFR 164.502(e)(1).

(ii) All other uses and disclosures of such data and/or such non-public analyses is forbidden except to the extent a disclosure qualifies as a "required by law" disclosure.

(4) If the authorized user is not a provider or supplier, the authorized user may not re-disclose or make public any non-public analyses or derivative data except as required by law.

(5) The authorized user may not link the de-identified analyses to any other identifiable source of information and may not in any other way attempt to identify any individual whose de-identified data is included in the analyses.

(6) The authorized user must notify the qualified entity of any DUA violations, and it must fully cooperate with the qualified entity's efforts to mitigate any harm that may result from such violations.
