
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 402 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS, AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 402.1 Basis and scope.
####### Exclusions.

(e)(1) CMS or OIG may exclude any person from participation in the Medicare program on the basis of any of the following violations of the statute:

(i) Section 1833: Paragraphs (h)(5)(D) and, in repeated cases, (q)(2)(B).

(ii) Section 1834: Paragraphs (a)(11)(A), (a)(18)(B), (b)(5)(C), (c)(4)(C), (h)(3), (j)(4), (k)(6), and (l)(6).

(iii) Section 1842: Paragraphs (b)(18)(B), (k), (l)(3), (m)(3), (n)(3), and, in repeated cases, (p)(3)(B).

(iv) Section 1848: Paragraphs (g)(1)(B), (g)(3)(B), and, in repeated cases, (g)(4)(B)(ii).

(v) Section 1877: Paragraph (g)(5).

(vi) Section 1879: Paragraph (h).

(vii) Section 1882: Paragraphs (a)(2), (p)(8), (p)(9)(C), (q)(5)(C), (r)(6)(A), (s)(4), and (t)(2).

(2) CMS or OIG must exclude from participation in the Medicare program any of the following, under the identified section of the Act:

(i) Section 1834(a)(17)(C)-Any supplier of durable medical equipment and supplies that are covered under section 1834(a)(13) that knowingly contacts Medicare beneficiaries by telephone regarding the furnishing of covered services in violation of section 1834(a)(17)(A) and whose conduct establishes a pattern of prohibited contacts as described under section 1834(a)(17)(A).

(ii) Section 1834(h)(3)-Any supplier of prosthetic devices, orthotics, and prosthetics that knowingly contacts Medicare beneficiaries by telephone regarding the furnishing of prosthetic devices, orthotics, or prosthetics in the same manner as in the violation under section 1834(a)(17)(A) and whose conduct establishes a pattern of prohibited contacts in the same manner as described in section 1834(a)(17)(C).
