
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 402 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS, AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 402.7 Notice of proposed determination.

(a) If CMS or OIG proposes a penalty and, as applicable, an assessment, or proposes to exclude a respondent from participation in Medicare in accordance with this part, it sends the respondent written notice of its intent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice includes the following information:

(1) Reference to the statutory basis or bases for the penalty, assessment, exclusion, or any combination, as applicable.

(2)(i) A description of the claims, requests for payment, or incidents with respect to which the penalty, assessment, and exclusion are proposed; or

(ii) If CMS or OIG is relying upon statistical sampling to project the number and types of claims or requests for payment and the dollar amount, a description of the claims and requests for payment comprising the sample and a brief description of the statistical sampling technique CMS or OIG used.

(3) The reason why the claims, requests for payment, or incidents are subject to a penalty and assessment.

(4) The amount of the proposed penalty and of any proposed assessment.

(5) Any mitigating or aggravating circumstances that CMS or OIG considered when it determined the amount of the proposed penalty and any applicable assessment.

(6) Information concerning response to the notice, including-

(i) A specific statement of the respondent's right to a hearing; and

(ii) A statement that failure to request a hearing within 60 days renders the proposed determination final and permits the imposition of the proposed penalty and any assessment.

(iii) A statement that the debt may be collected through an administrative offset.

(7) In the case of a respondent that has an agreement under section 1866 of the Act, notice that imposition of an exclusion may result in termination of the provider's agreement in accordance with section 1866(b)(2)(C) of the Act.
