
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 402 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS, AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart B - Civil Money Penalties and Assessments
###### § 402.105 Amount of penalty.
####### $10,000.

(d)(1) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each day that reporting entity ownership arrangements is late (§ 402.1(c)(22)).

(2) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for the following violations that occur on or after January 1, 1997:

(i) Knowingly and willfully, and on a repeated basis, billing for a clinical diagnostic laboratory test, other than on an assignment-related basis (§ 402.1(c)(1)).

(ii) By any durable medical equipment supplier, knowingly and willfully charging for a covered service that is furnished on a rental basis after the rental payments may no longer be made (except for maintenance and servicing) as provided in section 1834(a)(7)(A) (§ 402.1(c)(4)).

(iii) By any durable medical equipment supplier, knowingly and willfully, in violation of section 1834(a)(18)(A), failing to make a refund to Medicare beneficiaries for a covered service for which payment is precluded due to an unsolicited telephone contact from the supplier (§ 402.1(c)(5)).

(iv) By any nonparticipating physician or supplier, knowingly and willfully charging a Medicare beneficiary more than the limiting charge, as specified in section 1834(b)(5)(B), for radiologist services (§ 402.1(c)(6)).

(v) By any nonparticipating physician or supplier, knowingly and willfully charging a Medicare beneficiary more than the limiting charge, as specified in section 1834(c)(3), for mammography screening (§ 402.1(c)(7)).

(vi) By any supplier of prosthetic devices, orthotics, and prosthetics, knowingly and willfully charging for a covered prosthetic device, orthotic, or prosthetic that is furnished on a rental basis after the rental payment may no longer be made (except for maintenance and servicing) (§ 401.2(c)(8)).

(vii) By any supplier of durable medical equipment, including a supplier of prosthetic devices, prosthetics, orthotics, or supplies, knowingly and willfully failing to make refunds in a timely manner to Medicare beneficiaries for services billed other than on an assigned-related basis if-

(A) The supplier does not possess a Medicare supplier number;

(B) The service is denied in advance; or

(C) The service is determined not to be medically necessary or reasonable (§ 402.1(c)(10)).

(viii) Knowingly and willfully billing or collecting for any services on other than an assignment-related basis for practitioners specified in section 1842(b)(18)(B) (§ 402.1(c)(11)).

(ix) By any physician, knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim or bill for an assistant at cataract surgery performed on or after March 1, 1987 for which payment may not be made because of section 1862(a)(15) (§ 402.1(c)(12)).

(x) By any nonparticipating physician who does not accept payment on an assignment-related basis, knowingly and willfully failing to refund on a timely basis any amounts collected for services that are not reasonable or medically necessary or are of poor quality, in accordance with section 1842(l)(1)(A) (§ 402.1(c)(13)).

(xi) By any nonparticipating physician, who does not accept payment for an elective surgical procedure on an assignment-related basis and whose charge is at least $500, knowingly and willfully failing to-

(A) Disclose the information required by section 1842(m)(1) concerning charges and coinsurance amounts; and

(B) Refund on a timely basis any amount collected for the procedure in excess of the charges recognized and approved by the Medicare program (§ 402.1(c)(14)).

(xii) By any physician, in repeated cases, knowingly and willfully billing one or more beneficiaries, for purchased diagnostic tests, any amount other than the payment amount specified in section 1842(n)(1)(A) or section 1842(n)(1)(B) (§ 402.1(c)(15)).

(xiii) By any nonparticipating physician, supplier, or other person that furnishes physicians' services and does not accept payment on an assignment-related basis-

(A) Knowingly and willfully billing or collecting in excess of the limiting charge (as defined in section 1843(g)(2)) on a repeated basis; or

(B) Failing to make an adjustment or refund on a timely basis as required by section 1848(g)(1)(A)(iii) or (iv) (§ 402.1(c)(17)).

(xiv) Knowingly and willfully billing for State plan approved physicians' services on other than an assignment-related basis for a Medicare beneficiary who is also eligible for Medicaid (§ 402.1(c)(18)).

(xv) By any supplier of durable medical equipment, including a supplier of prosthetic devices, prosthetics, orthotics, or supplies, knowingly and willfully failing to make refunds in a timely manner to Medicare beneficiaries for services billed on an assignment-related basis if-

(A) The supplier did not possess a Medicare supplier number;

(B) The service is denied in advance; or

(C) The service is determined not to be medically necessary or reasonable (§ 402.1(c)(23)).

(3) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each violation, if a person or entity knowingly and willfully bills or collects for outpatient therapy or comprehensive rehabilitation services other than on an assignment-related basis.

(4) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each violation, if a person or entity knowingly and willfully bills or collects for outpatient ambulance services other than on an assignment-related basis.

(5) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each failure of an applicable manufacturer or an applicable group purchasing organization to report timely, accurately, or completely a payment or other transfer of value or an ownership or investment interest (§ 402.1(c)(34)). The total penalty imposed with respect to failures to report in an annual submission of information will not exceed $150,000 as annually adjusted under 45 CFR part 102.
