
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 402 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS, AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart B - Civil Money Penalties and Assessments
###### § 402.105 Amount of penalty.
####### $25,000.

(f)CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $25,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each of the following violations:

(1) Issuance of a Medicare supplemental policy that has not been approved by an approved State regulatory program or does not meet Federal standards on and after the effective date in section 1882(p)(1)(C) of the Act (§ 402.1(c)(23)).

(2) Sale or issuance after July 30, 1992, of a Medicare supplemental policy that fails to conform with the NAIC or Federal standards established under section 1882(p) of the Act (§ 402.1(c)(25)).

(3) Failure to make the core group of basic benefits available for sale when selling other Medicare supplemental plans with additional benefits (§ 402.1(c)(26)).

(4) Failure to provide, before sale of a Medicare supplemental policy, an outline of coverage describing the benefits provided by the policy (§ 402.1(c)(26)).

(5) Failure of an issuer of a policy to suspend or reinstate a policy, based on the policy holder's request, during entitlement to or upon loss of eligibility for medical assistance (§ 402.1(c)(27)).

(6) Failure to provide refunds or credits for Medicare supplemental policies as required by section 1882(r)(1)(B) (§ 402.1(c)(28)).

(7) By an issuer of a Medicare supplemental policy-

(i) Substantial failure to provide medically necessary services to enrollees seeking the services through the issuer's network of entities;

(ii) Imposition of premiums on enrollees in excess of the premiums approved by the State;

(iii) Action to expel an enrollee for reasons other than nonpayment of premiums; or

(iv) Failure to provide each enrollee, at the time of enrollment, with the specific information provided in section 1882(t)(1)(E)(i) or failure to obtain a written acknowledgment from the enrollee of receipt of the information (as required by section 1882(t)(1)(E)(ii)) (section 1882(t)(2)).
