
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 402 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS, AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart B - Civil Money Penalties and Assessments
###### § 402.113 When a penalty and assessment are collectible.

A civil money penalty and assessment become collectible after the earliest of the following:

(a) Sixty days after the respondent receives CMS's or OIG's notice of proposed determination under § 402.7, if the respondent has not requested a hearing before an ALJ.

(b) Immediately after the respondent abandons or waives his or her appeal right at any administrative level.

(c) Thirty days after the respondent receives the ALJ's decision imposing a civil money penalty or assessment under § 1005.20(d) of this title, if the respondent has not requested a review before the DAB.

(d) If the DAB grants an extension of the period for requesting the DAB's review, the day after the extension expires if the respondent has not requested the review.

(e) Immediately after the ALJ's decision denying a request for a stay of the effective date under § 1005.22(b) of this title.

(f) If the ALJ grants a stay under § 1005.22(b) of this title, immediately after the judicial ruling is completed.

(g) Sixty days after the respondent receives the DAB's decision imposing a civil money penalty if the respondent has not requested a stay of the decision under § 1005.22(b) of this title.
