
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 402 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS, AND EXCLUSIONS
##### Subpart C - Exclusions
###### ยง 402.210 Notices.
####### Notice of proposed determination to exclude.

(a)When the initiating agency proposes to exclude a person from participation in a Federal health care program in accordance with this part, notice of the proposed determination to exclude must be given in writing, and delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The written notice must include, at a minimum-

(1) Reference to the statutory basis for the exclusion.

(2) A description of the claims, requests for payment, or incidents for which the exclusion is proposed.

(3) The reason why those claims, requests for payments, or incidents subject the person to an exclusion.

(4) The length of the proposed exclusion.

(5) A description of the circumstances that were considered when determining the period of exclusion.

(6) Instructions for responding to the notice, including a specific statement of the person's right to submit documentary evidence and a written response concerning whether the exclusion is warranted, and any related issues such as potential mitigating circumstances. The notice must specify that-

(i) The person has the right to request an opportunity to meet with an official of the initiating agency to make an oral presentation; and

(ii) The request to make an oral presentation must be submitted within 30 days of the receipt of the notice of intent to exclude.

(7) If a person fails, within the time permitted under ยง 402.212, to exercise the right to respond to the notice of proposed determination to exclude, the initiating agency may initiate actions for the imposition of the exclusion.
