
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Medicare Supplemental Policies
###### Voluntary Certification Program: General Provisions
####### § 403.231 Emblem.

(a) The emblem is a graphic symbol, approved by HHS, that indicates that CMS has certified a policy as meeting the requirements of the voluntary certification program, specified in § 403.232.

(b) Unless prohibited by the State in which the policy is marketed, the insuring organization may display the emblem on policies certified under the voluntary certification program.

(c) The manner in which the emblem may be displayed and the conditions and restrictions relating to its use will be stated in the letter with which CMS notifies the insuring organization that a policy has been certified. The insuring organization must comply with these conditions and restrictions.

(d) If a certified policy is issued in a State that later has an approved regulatory program, as provided for in § 403.222, the insuring organization may display the emblem on the policy until the earliest of the following-

(1) When prohibited by State law or regulation.

(2) When the policy no longer meets the requirements for Medicare supplemental policies specified in § 403.206.

(3) The date the insuring organization would be required to submit material to CMS for annual review in order to retain certification, if the State did not have an approved program (see § 403.239).
