
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Medicare Supplemental Policies
###### Voluntary Certification Program: General Provisions
####### § 403.232 Requirements and procedures for obtaining certification.

(a) To be certified by CMS, a policy must meet-

(1) The NAIC model standards specified in § 403.210;

(2) The loss ratio standards specified in § 403.215; and

(3) Any State requirements applicable to a policy-

(i) Issued in that State; or

(ii) Marketed in that State.

(b) An insuring organization requesting certification of a policy must submit the following to CMS for review-

(1) A copy of the policy form (including all the documents that would constitute the contract of insurance that is proposed to be marketed as a certified policy).

(2) A copy of the application form including all attachments.

(3) A copy of the uniform certificate issued under a group policy.

(4) A copy of the outline of coverage, in the form prescribed by the NAIC model standards.

(5) A copy of the Medicare supplement buyers' guide to be provided to all applicants if the buyers' guide is not the CMS/NAIC buyers' guide.

(6) A statement of when and how the outline of coverage and the buyers' guide will be delivered and copies of applicable receipt forms.

(7) A copy of the notice of replacement and statement as to when and how that notice will be delivered.

(8) A list of States in which the policy is authorized for sale. If the policy was approved under a deemer provision in any State, the conditions involved must be specified.

(9) A copy of the loss ratio calculations, as specified in § 403.250.

(10) Loss ratio supporting data, as specified in § 403.256.

(11) A statement of actuarial opinion, as specified in § 403.258.

(12) A statement that the insuring organization will notify the policyholders in writing, within the period of time specified in § 403.245(c), if the policy is identified as a certified policy at the time of sale and later loses certification.

(13) A signed statement in which the president of the insuring organization, or a designee, attests that-

(i) The policy meets the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section; and

(ii) The information submitted to CMS for review is accurate and complete and does not misrepresent any material fact.
