
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Medicare Supplemental Policies
###### Voluntary Certification Program: General Provisions
####### ยง 403.248 Administrative review of CMS determinations.

(a) This section provides for administrative review if CMS determines-

(1) Not to certify a policy; or

(2) That a policy no longer meets the standards for certification.

(b) If CMS makes a determination specified in paragraph (a) of this section, it will send a notice to the insuring organization containing the following information:

(1) That CMS has made such a determination.

(2) The reasons for the determination.

(3) That the insuring organization has 30 days from the date of the notice to-

(i) Request, in writing, an administrative review of the CMS determination; and

(ii) Submit additional information to CMS for review.

(4) That, if the insuring organization requests an administrative review, CMS will conduct the review, as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) That, in a case involving loss of certification, the CMS determination will go into effect 30 days from the date of the notice, unless the insuring organization requests an administrative review. If the insuring organization requests an administrative review, the policy retains its certification until CMS makes a final determination.

(c) If the insuring organization requests an administrative review, CMS will conduct the review as follows-

(1) A CMS official, not involved in the initial CMS determination, will initiate and complete an administrative review within 90 days of the date of the notice provided for in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The official will consider-

(i) The original material submitted to CMS for review, as specified in ยง 403.232(b) or ยง 403.239(a); and

(ii) Any additional information, that the insuring organization submits to CMS.

(3) Within 15 days after the administrative review is completed, CMS will inform the insuring organization in writing of the final decision, with an explanation of the final decision.

(4) If the final decision is that a policy lose its certification, the loss of certification will go into effect 15 days after the date of CMS's notice informing the insuring organization of the final decision.
