
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Medicare Supplemental Policies
###### Voluntary Certification Program: Loss Ratio Provisions
####### ยง 403.256 Loss ratio supporting data.

(a) For purposes of requesting CMS certification under ยง 403.232, the insuring organization must submit the following loss ratio data to CMS for review-

(1) A statement of why the policy is to be considered, for purposes of the loss ratio standards, an individual or a group policy.

(2) The earliest age at which policyholders can purchase the policy.

(3) The general marketing method and the underwriting criteria used for the selection of applicants to whom coverage is offered.

(4) What policies are to be included under the one policy form, by the dates the policies are issued.

(5) The loss ratio calculation period.

(6) The scale of premiums for the loss ratio calculation period.

(7) The expected level of earned premiums in the loss ratio calculation period.

(8) The expected level of incurred claims in the loss ratio calculation period.

(9) A description of how the following assumptions were used in calculating the loss ratio.

(i) Morbidity.

(ii) Mortality.

(iii) Lapse.

(iv) Assumed increases in the Medicare deductible.

(v) Impact of inflation on reimbursement per service.

(vi) Interest.

(vii) Expected distribution, by age and sex, of persons who will purchase the policy in the coming year.

(viii) Expected impact on morbidity by policy duration of-

(A) The process used to select insureds from among those that apply for a policy; and

(B) Pre-existing condition clauses in the policy.

(b) For purposes of requesting continued CMS certification under ยง 403.239(a), the insuring organization must submit the following to CMS-

(1) A description of all changes in the loss ratio data, specified in paragraph (a) of this section, that occurred since CMS last reviewed the policy.

(2) The past loss ratio experience for the policy, including the experience of all riders and endorsements issued under the policy. The loss ratio experience data must include earned premiums, incurred claims, and total policy reserves that the insuring organization calculates-

(i) For all years of issue combined; and

(ii) Separately for each calendar year since CMS first certified the policy.
