
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart C - Recognition of State Reimbursement Control Systems
###### ยง 403.304 Minimum requirements for State systems - discretionary approval.
####### Requirements for State system.

(b)(1) An application for approval of the system must be submitted to CMS by the Chief Executive Officer of the State.

(2) The State system must apply to substantially all non-Federal acute care hospitals in the State.

(3) All hospitals covered by the system must have and maintain a utilization and quality control review agreement with a Quality Improvement Organization, as required under section 1866(a)(1)(F) of the Act and ยง 466.78(a) of this chapter.

(4) Federal hospitals must be excluded from the State system.

(5) Nonacute care or specialty hospital (such as rehabilitation, psychiatric, or children's hospitals) may, at the option of the State, be excluded from the State system.

(6) The State system must apply to at least 75 percent of all revenues or expenses-

(i) For inpatient hospital services in the State; and

(ii) For inpatient hospital services under the State's Medicaid plan.

(7) Under the system, HMOs and competitive medical plans (CMPs), as defined by section 1876(b) of the Act and part 417 of this chapter, must be allowed to negotiate payment rates with hospitals.

(8) The system must limit hospital charges for Medicare beneficiaries to deductibles, coinsurance or non-covered services.

(9) Unless a waiver is granted by CMS under ยง 489.23 of this chapter, the system must prohibit payment, as required under section 1862(a)(14) of the Act and ยง 405.310(m) of this chapter, for nonphysician services provided to hospital inpatients under Part B of Medicare.

(10) The system must require hospitals to submit Medicare cost reports or approved reports in lieu of Medicare cost reports as required.

(11) The system must require-

(i) Preparation, collection, or retention by the State of reports (such as financial, administrative, or statistical reports) that may be necessary, as determined by CMS, to review and monitor the State's assurances; and

(ii) Submission of the reports to CMS upon request.

(12) The system must provide hospitals an opportunity to appeal errors that they believe have been made in the determination of their payment rates. The system, if it is prospective may not permit providers to file administrative appeals that would result in a retroactive revision of prospectively determined payment rates.
