
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart C - Recognition of State Reimbursement Control Systems
###### ยง 403.304 Minimum requirements for State systems - discretionary approval.
####### Satisfactory assurances.

(c)The State must provide to CMS satisfactory assurance as to the following:

(1) The system provides for equitable treatment of hospital patients and hospital employees.

(2) The system provides for equitable treatment of all entities that pay hospitals for inpatient hospital services, including Federal and State programs. Under the requirement, the following conditions must be met:

(i) Both the Medicare and Medicaid programs must participate under the system.

(ii) The State must assure equitable and uniform treatment under the system of third-party payors of inpatient hospital services in terms of opportunity. Equitable opportunity must include, but need not be limited to, participation in the system and availability of discounts. Criteria under which discounts are made available must be equitably and uniformly applied to all payors, except for discounts negotiated by HMOs and CMPs. Discounts available to HMOs and CMPs as result of their statutory right to negotiate payment rates independently of a State system, as described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, need not be available to other payors.

(iii) The State must assure that all third-party payors that participate under the system share in the system's risks and benefits.

(3) The amount of Medicare payments made under the system over 36-month periods may not exceed the amount of Medicare payment that would otherwise have been made under the Medicare principles of reimbursement for Medicare items and services had the State system not been in effect. States must submit the assurance and supporting data as required by ยง 403.320 to document that the payment limit is not exceeded. States that have an existing Medicare demonstration project in effect on April 20, 1983, and that have requested approval of a State system under section 1886(c)(4) of the Act, may elect to have the effectiveness of the State system under this paragraph judged on the basis of the State system's rate of increase or inflation in Medicare inpatient hospital payments as compared to the national rate of increase or inflation for such payments during the three cost reporting periods of the hospitals in the State beginning on or after October 1, 1983.
