
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart C - Recognition of State Reimbursement Control Systems
###### ยง 403.318 Approval of State systems.
####### Approval agreement.

(a)If CMS approves a State system, a written agreement will be executed between CMS and the Chief Executive Officer of the State. The agreement must incorporate any terms of the State's application for approval of the system as agreed to by the parties and, as a minimum, must contain provisions that require the following:

(1) The system is operated directly by the State or an entity designated by State law.

(2) For purposes of the Medicare program, the State's system applies only to Medicare payments for inpatient, and if applicable, outpatient hospital services.

(3) The system conforms to applicable Medicare law and regulations other than those relating to the amount of reimbursement for inpatient hospital services, or for inpatient and outpatient services, whichever the State system covers. Applicable regulations include, for example, those describing Medicare benefits and entitlement requirements for program beneficiaries, as explained in parts 406 and 409 of this chapter; the requirements at part 405, subpart J of this chapter specifying conditions of participation for hospitals; the requirements at part 405, subparts A, G, and S of this chapter on Medicare program administration; and all applicable fraud and abuse regulations contained in titles 42 and 45 of the CFR.

(4) The State must obtain CMS's approval of the State's reporting forms and of provider cost reporting forms or other forms that have not been approved by CMS but that are necessary for the collection of required information.
