
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### § 403.720 Conditions for coverage.

Medicare covers services furnished in an RNHCI if the following conditions are met:

(a) The provider meets the definition of an RNHCI as defined in section 1861(ss)(1) of the Act. That is, it is an institution that:

(1) Is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxes under section 501(a).

(2) Is lawfully operated under all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.

(3) Furnishes only nonmedical nursing items and services to beneficiaries who choose to rely solely upon a religious method of healing and for whom the acceptance of medical services would be inconsistent with their religious beliefs.

(4) Furnishes nonmedical items and services exclusively through nonmedical nursing personnel who are experienced in caring for the physical needs of nonmedical patients.

(5) Furnishes nonmedical items and services to inpatients on a 24-hour basis.

(6) Does not furnish, on the basis of religious beliefs, through its personnel or otherwise medical items and services (including any medical screening, examination, diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, or the administration of drugs) for its patients.

(7) Is not owned by, is not under common ownership with, or does not have an ownership interest of 5 percent or more in, a provider of medical treatment or services and is not affiliated with a provider of medical treatment or services or with an individual who has an ownership interest of 5 percent or more in, a provider of medical treatment or services. (Permissible affiliations are described at § 403.738(c).)

(8) Has in effect a utilization review plan that sets forth the following:

(i) Provides for review of the admissions to the institution, the duration of stays, and the need for continuous extended duration of stays in the institution, and the items and services furnished by the institution.

(ii) Requires that reviews be made by an appropriate committee of the institution that included the individuals responsible for overall administration and for supervision of nursing personnel at the institution.

(iii) Provides that records be maintained of the meetings, decisions, and actions of the review committee.

(iv) Meets other requirements as the Secretary finds necessary to establish an effective utilization review plan.

(9) Provides information CMS may require to implement section 1821 of the Act, including information relating to quality of care and coverage decisions.

(10) Meets other requirements CMS finds necessary in the interest of the health and safety of the patients who receive services in the institution. These requirements are the conditions of participation in this subpart.

(b) The provider meets the conditions of participation cited in §§ 403.730 through 403.746. (A provider may be deemed to meet conditions of participation in accordance with part 488 of this chapter.)

(c) The provider has a valid provider agreement as a hospital with CMS in accordance with part 489 of this chapter and for payment purposes is classified as an extended care hospital.

(d) The beneficiary has a condition that would make him or her eligible to receive services covered under Medicare Part A as an inpatient in a hospital or SNF.

(e) The beneficiary has a valid election as described in § 403.724 in effect for Medicare covered services furnished in an RNHCI.
