
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### ยง 403.724 Valid election requirements.
####### General requirements.

(a)An election statement must be made by the Medicare beneficiary or his or her legal representative.

(1) The election must be a written statement that must include the following statements:

(i) The beneficiary is conscientiously opposed to acceptance of nonexcepted medical treatment.

(ii) The beneficiary acknowledges that the acceptance of nonexcepted medical treatment is inconsistent with his or her sincere religious beliefs.

(iii) The beneficiary acknowledges that the receipt of nonexcepted medical treatment constitutes a revocation of the election and may limit further receipt of services in an RNHCI.

(iv) The beneficiary acknowledges that the election may be revoked by submitting a written statement to CMS.

(v) The beneficiary acknowledges that revocation of the election will not prevent or delay access to medical services available under Medicare Part A in facilities other than RNHCIs.

(2) The election must be signed and dated by the beneficiary or his or her legal representative.

(3) The election must be notarized.

(4) The RNHCI must keep a copy of the election statement on file and submit the original to CMS with any information obtained regarding prior elections or revocations.

(5) The election becomes effective on the date it is signed.

(6) The election remains in effect until revoked.
