
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### § 403.738 Condition of participation: Administration.
####### Standard: Affiliations and disclosure.

(c)(1) An affiliation is permissible if it is between one of the following:

(i) An individual serving as an uncompensated director, trustee, officer, or other member of the governing body of an RNHCI and a provider of medical treatment or services.

(ii) An individual who is a director, trustee, officer, employee, or staff member of an RNHCI and another individual, with whom he or she has a family relationship, who is affiliated with (or has an ownership interest in) a provider of medical treatment or services.

(iii) The RNHCI and an individual or entity furnishing goods or services as a vendor to both providers of medical treatment or services and RNHCIs.

(2) The RNHCI complies with the disclosure requirements of §§ 420.206 and 455.104 of this chapter.

(3) The RNHCI furnishes written notice, including the identity of each new individual or company, to CMS at the time of a change, if a change occurs in any of the following:

(i) Persons with an ownership or control interest, as defined in §§ 420.201 and 455.101 of this chapter.

(ii) The officers, directors, agents, or managing employees.

(iii) The religious entity, corporation, association, or other company responsible for the management of the RNHCI.

(iv) The RNHCI's administrator or director of nonmedical nursing services.
