
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### ยง 403.742 Condition of participation: Physical environment.
####### Standard: Patient rooms.

(b)Patient rooms must be designed and equipped for adequate care, comfort, and privacy of the patient.

(1) Patient rooms must meet the following conditions:

(i) Accommodate no more than four patients.

(ii) Measure at least 80 square feet per patient in multiple patient rooms and at least 100 square feet in single patient rooms.

(iii) Have direct access to an exit corridor.

(iv) Be designed or equipped to assure full visual privacy for each patient.

(v) Have at least one window to the outside.

(vi) Have a floor at or above grade level.

(2) The RNHCI must furnish each patient with the following:

(i) A separate bed of proper size and height for the convenience of the patient.

(ii) A clean, comfortable mattress.

(iii) Bedding appropriate to the weather and climate.

(iv) Functional furniture appropriate to the patient's needs and individual closet space with clothes racks and shelves accessible to the patient.

(3) CMS may permit variances in requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section relating to rooms on an individual basis when the RNHCI adequately demonstrates in writing that the variances meet the following:

(i) Are in accordance with the special needs of the patients.

(ii) Will not adversely affect patients' health and safety.
