
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### ยง 403.744 Condition of participation: Life safety from fire.
####### General.

(a)An RNHCI must meet the following conditions:

(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section-

(i) The RNHCI must meet the applicable provisions and must proceed in accordance with the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101 and Tentative Interim Amendments TIA 12-1, TIA 12-2, TIA 12-3, and TIA 12-4).

(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, corridor doors and doors to rooms containing flammable or combustible materials must be provided with positive latching hardware. Roller latches are prohibited on such doors.

(2) The RNHCI must have written fire control plans that contain provisions for prompt reporting of fires; extinguishing fires; protection of patients, staff, and the public; evacuation; and cooperation with fire fighting authorities.

(3) The RNHCI must maintain written evidence of regular inspection and approval by State or local fire control agencies.

(4) The RNHCI may place alcohol-based hand rub dispensers in its facility if the dispensers are installed in a manner that adequately protects against inappropriate access.

(5) When a sprinkler system is shut down for more than 10 hours the RHNCI must:

(i) Evacuate the building or portion of the building affected by the system outage until the system is back in service, or

(ii) Establish a fire watch until the system is back in service.

(6) Building must have an outside window or outside door in every sleeping room, and for any building constructed after July 5, 2016 the sill height must not exceed 36 inches above the floor. Windows in atrium walls are considered outside windows for the purposes of this requirement.
