
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### ยง 403.748 Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness.
####### Policies and procedures.

(b)The RNHCI must develop and implement emergency preparedness policies and procedures, based on the emergency plan set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, risk assessment at paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the communication plan at paragraph (c) of this section. The policies and procedures must be reviewed and updated at least every 2 years. At a minimum, the policies and procedures must address the following:

(1) The provision of subsistence needs for staff and patients, whether they evacuate or shelter in place, include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Food, water, and supplies.

(ii) Alternate sources of energy to maintain the following:

(A) Temperatures to protect patient health and safety and for the safe and sanitary storage of provisions.

(B) Emergency lighting.

(C) Fire detection, extinguishing, and alarm systems.

(D) Sewage and waste disposal.

(2) A system to track the location of on-duty staff and sheltered patients in the RNHCI's care during an emergency. If on-duty staff and sheltered patients are relocated during the emergency, the RNCHI must document the specific name and location of the receiving facility or other location.

(3) Safe evacuation from the RNHCI, which includes the following:

(i) Consideration of care needs of evacuees.

(ii) Staff responsibilities.

(iii) Transportation.

(iv) Identification of evacuation location(s).

(v) Primary and alternate means of communication with external sources of assistance.

(4) A means to shelter in place for patients, staff, and volunteers who remain in the facility.

(5) A system of care documentation that does the following:

(i) Preserves patient information.

(ii) Protects confidentiality of patient information.

(iii) Secures and maintains the availability of records.

(6) The use of volunteers in an emergency and other emergency staffing strategies to address surge needs during an emergency.

(7) The development of arrangements with other RNHCIs and other providers to receive patients in the event of limitations or cessation of operations to maintain the continuity of nonmedical services to RNHCI patients.

(8) The role of the RNHCI under a waiver declared by the Secretary, in accordance with section 1135 of Act, in the provision of care at an alternate care site identified by emergency management officials.
