
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart G - Religious Nonmedical Health Care Institutions - Benefits, Conditions of Participation, and Payment
###### ยง 403.766 Requirements for coverage and payment of RNHCI home services.

(a) Medicare Part A pays for RNHCI home services if the RNHCI provider does the following:

(1) Submit a notice of intent to CMS to exercise the option of providing home service.

(2) Provide RNHCI services to eligible beneficiaries,

(3) Arrange with suppliers to furnish appropriate DME items as required to meet documented eligible beneficiary needs.

(4) Arrange for RNHCI nurse home visits to eligible beneficiaries.

(5) Have a utilization committee that assumes the additional responsibility for the oversight and monitoring of the items and RNHCI nursing services provided under the home benefit.

(6) Meet all applicable requirements set forth in subpart G of this part.

(b) To be an eligible beneficiary to RNHCI home services the beneficiary must:

(1) Have an effective election in place.

(2) Be confined to the home, as specified in ยง 409.42(a) of this chapter.

(3) Have a condition that makes him or her eligible to receive services covered under Medicare home health.

(4) Receive home services and DME items from a RNHCI.

(5) Be responsible for deductible and coinsurance for DME, as specified in ยง 409.50 of this chapter.
