
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart H - Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program
###### ยง 403.806 Sponsor requirements for eligibility for endorsement.
####### Prescription drug offering.

(d)An endorsed sponsor must comply with the following discount, rebate, and formulary requirements:

(1) Offer all of its discount card enrollees negotiated prices on covered discount card drugs, which may be limited to those covered discount card drugs included on the endorsed sponsor's formulary.

(2) If the endorsed sponsor uses a formulary, offer a negotiated price on at least one covered discount card drug in each of the lowest level categories for each of the therapeutic groups representing the drugs most commonly needed by Medicare beneficiaries as determined by CMS. A specific covered discount card drug may not be used to fulfill this requirement for more than one category.

(3) Offer a negotiated price on a generic drug in at least 55 percent of the lowest level categories in each of the therapeutic groups representing the drugs most commonly needed by Medicare beneficiaries as determined by CMS.

(4) In setting negotiated prices under this section, an endorsed sponsor may vary its prices and the drugs included on the formulary by pharmacy contract and enrollee characteristics, such as transitional assistance eligibility status.

(5) Synchronize changes in the list of, and negotiated prices for, covered discount card drugs included in the endorsed sponsor's formulary with formulary and negotiated prices published on a price comparison Web site, as described in paragraph (i)(4)(v) of this section.

(6) Obtain rebates, discounts, or other price concessions from manufacturers on covered discount card drugs and pass a share of such concessions to enrollees through negotiated prices.

(7) Guarantee that network and mail order pharmacies provide the lower of the negotiated price or usual and customary price when a covered discount card drug for a negotiated price is available at the point of sale.

(8) Guarantee that a network pharmacy, at the point of sale, inform a discount card enrollee of any differential between the price of a prescribed drug (if it is a covered discount card drug) and the price of the lowest priced generic covered discount card drug that is therapeutically equivalent and bioequivalent and available at such pharmacy. Mail order pharmacies are to provide this information at the time of delivery of the drug.

(9) Except during the week of November 15, 2004 (which coincides with the beginning of the annual coordinated election period), ensure that any increase in the negotiated price for a covered discount card drug does not exceed an amount proportionate to the change in the drug's average wholesale price (AWP), and/or an amount proportionate to the changes in the endorsed sponsor's cost structure, including material changes to any discounts, rebates, or other price concessions the endorsed sponsor receives from a pharmaceutical manufacturer or pharmacy.
