
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart H - Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program
###### ยง 403.806 Sponsor requirements for eligibility for endorsement.
####### Transitional assistance administration.

(e)An endorsed sponsor must administer transitional assistance funds, including any roll-over funds as described in ยง 403.808(f), for transitional assistance enrollees, through the following procedures:

(1) Establish accounting procedures to manage the transitional assistance funds for each transitional assistance enrollee.

(2) Ensure that transitional assistance funds are applicable to, and only to, all covered discount card drugs available at the endorsed sponsors' network and mail order pharmacies, regardless of formulary.

(3) Ensure that, at network and mail order pharmacies, transitional assistance funds are applied at the lower of negotiated price (if any) and the pharmacy's usual and customary price.

(4) Ensure that network pharmacies make available to the transitional assistance enrollee, electronically or by telephone, at the point-of-sale of covered discount card drugs, the amount of transitional assistance remaining available to the transitional assistance enrollee. Mail order pharmacies are to make this information available by telephone.

(5) Maintain a toll-free telephone number that discount card enrollees may use to determine their transitional assistance balances.

(6) Enforce coinsurance requirements described in ยง 403.808(e) and ensure that the portion of the price paid through coinsurance is not deducted from the total transitional assistance funds available to the discount card enrollee.
