
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart H - Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program
###### ยง 403.806 Sponsor requirements for eligibility for endorsement.
####### Information and outreach and customer service.

(g)(1) An endorsed sponsor must provide through the Internet and some other tangible medium (such as a mailing) to Medicare beneficiaries information and outreach materials describing its endorsed drug card program, including the following information-

(i) The enrollment fee;

(ii) Negotiated prices offered for covered discount card drugs;

(iii) If offered, discounts on over-the-counter drugs;

(iv) Any other products or services offered under the endorsement; and

(v) Any other information that CMS determines is necessary for a full description of the endorsed discount drug card program.

(2) An endorsed sponsor must include on a Web site the following:

(i) Information regarding when the Web site was last updated; and

(ii) A disclaimer that the information on the Web site may not be current.

(3) An endorsed sponsor must use the following forms which incorporate standard elements provided by CMS:

(i) An enrollment form (except as may be modified for an exclusive card sponsor as discussed in ยง 403.814(b)(5)(iii); and

(ii) An eligibility determination notice.

(4) An endorsed sponsor must provide to each enrollee a card that complies with National Council for Prescription Drug Programs standards.

(5) An endorsed sponsor must meet the following requirements for the review and approval of information and outreach materials:

(i) Comply with the Information and Outreach Guidelines published by CMS except as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(vi) of this section.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, not distribute any information and outreach materials until or unless they are approved by CMS.

(iii) If CMS does not disapprove the initial submission of information and outreach materials within 30 days of receipt of these materials, the materials are deemed approved under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section.

(iv) Information and outreach materials may discuss only products or services inside the scope of endorsement, as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(v) Information and outreach materials include the same kinds of materials described in 42 CFR 422.80(b), as well as the enrollment form, eligibility determination form, and membership card described in paragraphs (g)(3) and (g)(4) of this section, Web site content, and information regarding discounts for over-the-counter drugs.

(vi) All materials related to products and services that are Part D plans must comply with the requirements specified in ยง 423.50 of this chapter.

(6) An endorsed sponsor must maintain a toll-free customer call center that is open during usual business hours and that provides customer telephone service, including to pharmacists, in accordance with standard business practices. The endorsed sponsor must inform enrollees that the toll-free telephone number provides information on the amount of remaining transitional assistance, in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(7) An endorsed sponsor must provide a system to reduce the likelihood of medical errors and adverse drug interactions and to improve medication use.
