
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart H - Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program
###### ยง 403.811 Enrollment and disenrollment and associated endorsed sponsor requirements.
####### Enrollment process.

(a)(1) An individual (or an individual's authorized representative) applying to enroll in an endorsed discount card program must complete a standard enrollment form or other method allowed by CMS and provide such information to the endorsed discount card program in which the individual wishes to enroll.

(2) An individual electing to join an endorsed discount card program that charges an annual enrollment fee, and who is not applying for transitional assistance, must agree to pay the annual enrollment fee, if any, in a form and manner determined by the endorsed card sponsor.

(3) An individual applying for transitional assistance at the time that they apply for enrollment in an endorsed discount card program may only enroll in the endorsed discount card program at that time if CMS determines that the individual is eligible for transitional assistance. Individuals not found eligible for transitional assistance may enroll in an endorsed discount card program without applying for transitional assistance after being notified of their ineligibility for transitional assistance.

(4) An individual applying for transitional assistance must complete a standard enrollment form and sign and date the form, certifying, under penalty of perjury or similar sanction for false statements, as to the accuracy of the information provided on the standard enrollment form.

(5) Except as provided in ยง 403.811(b)(4), an individual who is not currently enrolled in an endorsed card program seeking to enroll in the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card and Transitional Assistance Program may do so at any time during the enrollment period.

(6) An individual may not be enrolled in more than one endorsed discount card program at a time.

(7) An individual may enroll in only one endorsed discount card program per year during the enrollment period. An individual enrolling during the initial enrollment year, with the exception of the circumstances under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, may change election for the second enrollment year during the annual coordinated election period. During the second enrollment year, an individual may enroll in only one endorsed discount card program, unless the individual meets the circumstances described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(8) An individual remains enrolled in an endorsed discount card program elected unless-

(i) The individual is disenrolled under paragraph (b) of this section;

(ii) The individual elects a new program during the Annual Coordinated Election Period; or

(iii) The endorsed sponsor terminates its endorsed discount card program, or is terminated.

(9) No new enrollment in an endorsed discount card program or changing election of an endorsed discount card program is allowed during the transition period.

(10) Except as specified in ยง 403.814(b)(6)(i), an individual may enroll in any endorsed discount card program, and only those endorsed discount card programs, offered in the individual's State of residence.

(11) In order to access negotiated prices or transitional assistance, if applicable, an individual must be enrolled in an endorsed discount card program. Access to negotiated prices begins with the effective date of enrollment and ends with disenrollment. Access to transitional assistance begins with the transitional assistance effective date and ends for claims finalized on the date of disenrollment.

(12) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, an individual may apply for transitional assistance at any time during the enrollment period.
