
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart I - Transparency Reports and Reporting of Physician Ownership or Investment Interests
###### ยง 403.902 Definitions.
####### Exceptions.

(3)The following are not ownership or investment interests for the purposes of this section:

(i) An ownership or investment interest in a publicly traded security or mutual fund, as described in section 1877(c) of the Act.

(ii) An interest in an applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization that arises from a retirement plan offered by the applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization to the physician (or a member of his or her immediate family) through the physician's (or immediate family member's) employment with that applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization.

(iii) Stock options and convertible securities received as compensation, until the stock options are exercised or the convertible securities are converted to equity.

(iv) An unsecured loan subordinated to a credit facility.

(v) An ownership or investment interest if an applicable manufacturer or applicable group purchasing organization did not know, as defined in this section, about such ownership or investment interest.

(vi) A titular ownership or investment interest that excludes the ability or right to receive the financial benefits of ownership or investment, including, but not limited to, the distribution of profits, dividends, proceeds of sale, or similar returns on investment; or

(vii) An interest in an entity that arises from an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) that is qualified under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
