
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart I - Transparency Reports and Reporting of Physician Ownership or Investment Interests
###### ยง 403.904 Reports of payments or other transfers of value to covered recipients.
####### Rules for categorizing natures of payment.

(2)An applicable manufacturer must categorize each payment or other transfer of value, or separable part of that payment or transfer of value, with one of the categories listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (xviii) of this section, using the designation that best describes the nature of the payment or other transfer of value, or separable part of that payment or other transfer of value. If a payment or other transfer of value could reasonably be considered as falling within more than one category, the applicable manufacturer should select one category that it deems to most accurately describe the nature of the payment or transfer of value.

(i) Consulting fee.

(ii) Compensation for services other than consulting, including serving as faculty or as a speaker at an event other than a continuing education program.

(iii) Honoraria.

(iv) Gift.

(v) Entertainment.

(vi) Food and beverage.

(vii) Travel and lodging (including the specified destinations).

(viii) Education.

(ix) Research.

(x) Charitable contribution.

(xi) Debt forgiveness.

(xii) Royalty or license.

(xiii) Current or prospective ownership or investment interest.

(xiv) Compensation for serving as faculty or as a speaker for a medical education program.

(xv) Long term medical supply or device loan.

(xvi) Grant.

(xvii) Space rental or facility fees (teaching hospital only).

(xviii) Acquisitions.
