
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart I - Transparency Reports and Reporting of Physician Ownership or Investment Interests
###### ยง 403.904 Reports of payments or other transfers of value to covered recipients.
####### 5

() Primary business address of the non-teaching hospital covered recipient(s).

(B) If paid to a teaching hospital covered recipient, list the name and primary business address of teaching hospital.

(C) If paid to a non-covered recipient (such as a non-teaching hospital or clinic), list the name and primary business address of the entity.

(ii) Total amount of the research payment, including all research-related costs for activities outlined in a written agreement, research protocol, or both.

(iii) Name of the research study.

(iv) Name(s) of any related covered drugs, devices, biologicals, or medical supplies (subject to the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(8) of this section); for drugs and biologicals, the relevant National Drug Code(s), if any; and for devices and medical supplies, the relevant device identifier, if any, and the therapeutic area or product category if a marketed name is not available.

(v) Information about each non-teaching hospital covered recipient principal investigator (if applicable) set forth in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section.

(vi) Contextual information for research (optional).

(vii) ClinicalTrials.gov identifier (optional).

(2) For pre-clinical studies (before any human studies have begun), only report the following information:

(i) Research entity name (as required in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section).

(ii) Total amount of payment (as required in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section).

(ii) Principal investigator(s) (as required in paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section).
