
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart I - Transparency Reports and Reporting of Physician Ownership or Investment Interests
###### ยง 403.904 Reports of payments or other transfers of value to covered recipients.
####### Exclusions from reporting.

(h)The following are excluded from the reporting requirements specified in this section:

(1) Indirect payments or other transfers of value (as defined in ยง 403.902), where the applicable manufacturer is unaware of the identity of the covered recipient. An applicable manufacturer is unaware of the identity of a covered recipient if the applicable manufacturer does not know (as defined in ยง 403.902) the identity of the covered recipient during the reporting year or by the end of the second quarter of the following reporting year.

(2)(i) For CY 2013, payments or other transfers of value less than $10, unless the aggregate amount transferred to, requested by, or designated on behalf of the covered recipient exceeds $100 in a calendar year.

(ii) For CY 2014 and subsequent calendar years, to determine if transfers of value are excluded under this section, the dollar amounts specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section must be increased by the same percentage as the percentage increase in the consumer price index for all urban consumers (all items; U.S. city average) for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year. CMS will publish the values for the next reporting year 90 days before the beginning of the reporting year.

(iii) Payments or other transfers of value of less than $10 in CY 2013 (or less than the amount described in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section for CY 2014 and subsequent calendar years) provided at large-scale conferences and similar large-scale events, as well as events open to the public, do not need to be reported nor included for purposes of the $100 aggregate threshold in CY 2013 (or the aggregate threshold calculated in accordance paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section for CY 2014 and subsequent calendar years), even if the aggregate total for a covered recipient exceeds the aggregate threshold for the calendar year.

(iv) When reporting payments or other transfers of value under the $10 threshold for CY 2013 (or under the amount described in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section for CY 2014 and subsequent calendar years) for covered recipients that exceed the aggregate threshold for the reporting year, applicable manufacturers may (but are not required to) report all small payments to a particular covered recipient that fall within the same nature of payment category as a single payment or other transfer of value.

(3) Product samples, including coupons and vouchers that can be used by a patient to obtain samples, which are not intended to be sold and are intended for patient use.

(4) Educational materials and items that directly benefit patients or are intended to be used by or with patients, including the value of an applicable manufacturer's services to educate patients regarding a covered drug, device, biological, or medical supply.

(5) Short term medical supply or device loan.

(6) Items or services provided under a contractual warranty (including service or maintenance agreements), whether or not the warranty period has expired, including the replacement of a covered device, where the terms of the warranty are set forth in the purchase or lease agreement for the covered device.

(7) A transfer of anything of value to a non-teaching hospital covered recipient when the covered recipient is a patient, research subject or participant in data collection for research, and not acting in the professional capacity of a covered recipient.

(8) Discounts, including rebates.

(9) In-kind items used for the provision of charity care.

(10) A dividend or other profit distribution from, or ownership or investment interest in, a publicly traded security or mutual fund.

(11) In the case of an applicable manufacturer who offers a self-insured plan or directly reimburses for healthcare expenses, payments for the provision of health care to employees and their families.

(12) In the case of a covered recipient who is a licensed non-medical professional, a transfer of anything of value to the covered recipient if the transfer is payment solely for the non-medical professional services of the licensed non-medical professional.

(13) In the case of a non-teaching hospital covered recipient, a transfer of anything of value to the covered recipient if the transfer is payment solely for the services of the covered recipient with respect to an administrative proceeding, legal defense, prosecution, or settlement or judgment of a civil or criminal action and arbitration.

(14) A payment or transfer of value to a covered recipient if the payment or transfer of value is made solely in the context of a personal, non-business-related relationship.
