
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 403 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
##### Subpart I - Transparency Reports and Reporting of Physician Ownership or Investment Interests
###### ยง 403.910 Delayed publication for payments made under product research or development agreements and clinical investigations.
####### Notification of delayed publication.

(d)(1) An applicable manufacturer must indicate on its research report to CMS whether a payment or other transfer of value is eligible for a delay in publication. The absence of this indication in the report will result in CMS posting all payments publicly in the first year of public reporting.

(2) An applicable manufacturer must continue to indicate annually in its report that FDA approval, licensure, or clearance of the new drug, device, biological or medical supply to which the payment or other transfer of value is related, is pending.

(3) An applicable manufacturer must notify CMS during subsequent annual submissions, if the new drug, device, biological or medical supply, to which the payment is related (or the new application of the existing drug, device, biological, or medical supply), is approved by the FDA.

(4) Failure to notify CMS when FDA approval occurs may be considered failure to report, and the applicable manufacturer may be subject to civil monetary penalties.

(5) If, after 4 years from the date of a payment first appearing in a report to CMS, there is an indication in a report that the payment is subject to delayed reporting, it is reported regardless of the indication.
