
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 8 - MEDICATION ASSISTED TREATMENT FOR OPIOID USE DISORDERS
##### Subpart C - Certification and Treatment Standards for Opioid Treatment Programs
###### ยง 8.11 Opioid treatment program certification.
####### et seq.

(3) Disclosure of patient records maintained by an OTP is governed by the provisions of 42 CFR part 2, and every program must comply with that part. Records on the receipt, storage, and distribution of opioid agonist treatment medications are also subject to inspection under Federal controlled substances laws and under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321). Federally-sponsored treatment programs are subject to applicable Federal confidentiality statutes.

(4) A treatment program or medication unit or any part thereof, including any facility or any individual, shall permit a duly authorized employee of SAMHSA to have access to and to copy all records on the use of opioid drugs in accordance with the provisions of 42 CFR part 2.

(5) OTPs shall notify SAMHSA within 3 weeks of any replacement or other change in the status of the program sponsor or medical director.

(6) OTPs shall comply with all regulations enforced by the DEA under 21 CFR chapter II, and must be registered by the DEA before administering or dispensing opioid agonist treatment medications.

(7) OTPs must operate in accordance with Federal opioid treatment standards and approved accreditation elements.
