
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart C - Suspension of Payment, Recovery of Overpayments, and Repayment of Scholarships and Loans
###### Suspension and Recoupment of Payment to Providers and Suppliers and Collection and Compromise of Overpayments
####### § 405.378 Interest charges on overpayment and underpayments to providers, suppliers, and other entities.
######## Definition of final determination.

(c)(1) For purposes of this section, any of the following constitutes a final determination:

(i) A Notice of Amount of Program Reimbursement (NPR) is issued, as discussed in §§ 405.1803, 417.576, and 417.810, and either-

(A) A written demand for payment is made; or

(B) A written determination of an underpayment is made by the intermediary after a cost report is filed.

(ii) In cases in which an NPR is not used as a notice of determination (that is, primarily under part B), one of the following constitutes a final determination-

(A) A written determination that an overpayment exists and a written demand for payment; or

(B) A written determination of an underpayment.

(iii) Other examples of cases in which an NPR is not used are carrier reasonable charge determinations under subpart E of this part, interim cost settlements made for HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs under §§ 417.574 and 417.810(e) of this chapter, and initial retroactive adjustment determinations under § 413.64(f)(2) of this chapter. In the case of interim cost settlements and initial retroactive adjustment determinations, if the debtor does not dispute the adjustment determination within the timeframe designated in the notice of the determination (generally at least 15 days), a final determination is deemed to have been made. If the provider or supplier does dispute portions of the determination, a final determination is deemed to have been made on those portions when the intermediary issues a new determination in response to the dispute.

(iv) The due date of a timely-filed cost report that indicates an amount is due CMS, and is not accompanied by payment in full. (If an additional overpayment or underpayment is determined by the carrier or intermediary, a final determination on the additional amount is made in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii), of this section.)

(v) With respect to a cost report that is not filed on time, the day following the date the cost report was due (plus a single extension of time not to exceed 30 days if granted for good cause), until the time as a cost report is filed. (When the cost report is subsequently filed, there is an additional determination as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.)

(2) Except as required by any subsequent administrative or judicial reversal and specifically as provided in paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section, interest accrues from the date of final determination as specified in this section.
