
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart C - Suspension of Payment, Recovery of Overpayments, and Repayment of Scholarships and Loans
###### Suspension and Recoupment of Payment to Providers and Suppliers and Collection and Compromise of Overpayments
####### ยง 405.378 Interest charges on overpayment and underpayments to providers, suppliers, and other entities.
######## Accrual of interest.

(e)(1) If a cost report is filed that does not indicate an amount is due CMS but the intermediary makes a final determination that an overpayment exists, or if a carrier makes a final determination that an overpayment to a physician or supplier exists, interest will accrue beginning with the date of such final determination. Interest will continue to accrue during periods of administrative and judicial appeal and until final disposition of the claim.

(2)(i) If a cost report is filed and indicates that an amount is due CMS, interest on the amount due will accrue from the due date of the cost report unless-

(A) Full payment on the amount due accompanies the cost report; or

(B) The provider and the intermediary agree in advance to liquidate the overpayment through a reduction in interim payments over the next 30-day period.

(ii) If the intermediary determines an additional overpayment during the cost settlement process, interest will accrue from the date of each determination.

(iii) The interest rate on each of the final determinations of an overpayment will be the rate of interest in effect on the date the determination is made.

(3) In the case of a cost report that is not filed on time, interest also will accrue on a determined overpayment from the day following the due date of the report (plus a single extension of time not to exceed 30 days if granted for good cause, as specified in ยง 413.24(f)) of this chapter, to the time the cost report is filed.

(4) If an intermediary or a carrier makes a final determination that an underpayment exists, interest to the provider or the supplier will accrue from the date of notification of the underpayment.
