
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart C - Suspension of Payment, Recovery of Overpayments, and Repayment of Scholarships and Loans
###### Suspension and Recoupment of Payment to Providers and Suppliers and Collection and Compromise of Overpayments
####### ยง 405.378 Interest charges on overpayment and underpayments to providers, suppliers, and other entities.
######## Special rule for provider or supplier overpayments subject to ยง 405.379.

(j)If an overpayment determination subject to the limitation on recoupment under ยง 405.379 is reversed in whole or in part by an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) or at subsequent administrative or judicial levels of appeal and if funds have been recouped and retained by the Medicare contractor, interest will be paid to the provider or supplier as follows:

(1) The applicable rate of interest is that provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) The interest rate in effect on the date the ALJ, the Medicare Appeals Council, the Federal district court or subsequent appellate court issues a decision reversing the overpayment determination in whole or in part is the rate used to calculate the interest due the provider or supplier.

(3) Interest will be calculated as follows:

(i) Interest will be paid on the principal amount recouped only.

(ii) Interest will be calculated on a simple rather than a compound basis.

(iii) Interest will be calculated in full 30-day periods and will not be payable on amounts recouped for any periods of less than 30 days in which the Medicare contractor had possession of the funds.

(iv) In calculating the period in which the amount was recouped, days in which the ALJ's adjudication period to conduct a hearing are tolled under 42 CFR 405.1014 shall not be counted.

(v) In calculating the period in which the amount was recouped, days in which the Medicare Appeals Council's adjudication period to conduct a review are tolled under 42 CFR 405.1106 shall not be counted.

(4) If the decision by the ALJ, Medicare Appeals Council, Federal district court or a subsequent Federal reviewing court, reverses the overpayment determination, as modified by prior levels of administrative or judicial review, in part, the Medicare contractor in effectuating the decision may allocate recouped monies to that part of the overpayment determination affirmed by the decision. Interest will be paid to the provider or supplier on recouped amounts that remain after this allocation in accordance with this paragraph (j) of this section.
