
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart C - Suspension of Payment, Recovery of Overpayments, and Repayment of Scholarships and Loans
###### Suspension and Recoupment of Payment to Providers and Suppliers and Collection and Compromise of Overpayments
####### ยง 405.379 Limitation on recoupment of provider and supplier overpayments.
######## General rules.

(d)(1) Medicare contractors can begin recoupment no earlier than 41 days from the date of the initial overpayment demand but shall cease recoupment of the overpayment in question, upon receipt of a timely and valid request for a redetermination of an overpayment. If the recoupment has not yet gone into effect, the contractor shall not initiate recoupment.

(2) If the redetermination decision is an affirmation in whole or in part of the overpayment determination, recoupment may be initiated or resumed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) Upon receipt of a timely and valid request for a reconsideration of an overpayment, the Medicare contractor shall cease recoupment of the overpayment in question. If the recoupment has not yet gone into effect, the contractor must not initiate recoupment.

(4) The contractor may initiate or resume recoupment following action by the QIC in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(5) If the provider or supplier subsequently appeals the overpayment to the ALJ, the Medicare Appeals Council, or Federal court, recoupment remains in effect as provided in ยง 405.373(e).

(6) If an overpayment determination is appealed and recoupment stopped, the contractor may continue to recoup other overpayments owed by the provider or supplier in accordance with this section.

(7) Amounts recouped prior to a reconsideration decision may be retained by the Medicare contractor in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(8) If either the redetermination or reconsideration decision is a full reversal of the overpayment determination or if the overpayment determination is reversed in whole or in part at subsequent levels of administrative or judicial appeal, adjustments shall be made with respect to the overpayment and the amount of interest charged.

(9) Interest accrues and is payable in accordance with the provisions of ยง 405.378.
