
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart D - Private Contracts
###### § 405.435 Failure to maintain opt-out.

(a) A physician or practitioner fails to maintain opt-out under this subpart if, during the opt-out period-

(1) He or she knowingly and willfully-

(i) Submits a claim for Medicare payment (except as provided in § 405.440); or

(ii) Receives Medicare payment directly or indirectly for Medicare-covered services furnished to a Medicare beneficiary (except as provided in § 405.440).

(2) He or she fails to enter into private contracts with Medicare beneficiaries for the purpose of furnishing items and services that would otherwise be covered by Medicare, or enters into contracts that fail to meet the specifications of § 405.415; or

(3) He or she fails to comply with the provisions of § 405.440 regarding billing for emergency care services or urgent care services; or

(4) He or she fails to retain a copy of each private contract that he or she has entered into for the duration of the current 2-year period for which the contracts are applicable or fails to permit CMS to inspect them upon request.

(b) If a physician or practitioner fails to maintain opt-out in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, then, for the remainder of the opt-out period, except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section-

(1) All of the private contracts between the physician or practitioner and Medicare beneficiaries are deemed null and void.

(2) The physician's or practitioner's opt-out of Medicare is nullified.

(3) The physician or practitioner must submit claims to Medicare for all Medicare-covered items and services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries.

(4) The physician or practitioner or beneficiary will not receive Medicare payment on Medicare claims for the remainder of the opt-out period, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) The physician is subject to the limiting charge provisions of § 414.48 of this chapter.

(6) The practitioner may not reassign any claim except as provided in § 424.80 of this chapter.

(7) The practitioner may neither bill nor collect any amount from the beneficiary except for applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts.

(8) The physician or practitioner may not attempt to once more meet the criteria for properly opting-out until the current 2-year period expires.

(c) Medicare payment may be made for the claims submitted by a beneficiary for the services of an opt-out physician or practitioner when the physician or practitioner did not privately contract with the beneficiary for services that were not emergency care services or urgent care services and that were furnished no later than 15 days after the date of a notice by the carrier that the physician or practitioner has opted-out of Medicare.

(d) If a physician or practitioner demonstrates that he or she has taken good faith efforts to maintain opt-out (including by refunding amounts in excess of the charge limits to beneficiaries with whom he or she did not sign a private contract) within 45 days of a notice from the Medicare Administrative Contractor of a violation of paragraph (a) of this section, then the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section are not applicable. In situations where a violation of paragraph (a) of this section is not discovered by the Medicare Administrative Contractor during the current 2-year period when the violation actually occurred, then the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section are applicable from the date that the first violation of paragraph (a) of this section occurred until the end of the 2-year period during which the violation occurred unless the physician or practitioner takes good faith efforts, within 45 days of any notice from the Medicare Administrative Contractor that the physician or practitioner failed to maintain opt-out, or within 45 days of the physician's or practitioner's discovery of the failure to maintain opt-out, whichever is earlier, to correct his or her violations of paragraph (a) of this section. Good faith efforts include, but are not limited to, refunding any amounts collected in excess of the charge limits to beneficiaries with whom he or she did not sign a private contract.
