
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Initial Determinations
####### ยง 405.921 Notice of initial determination.
######## Notice of initial determination sent to providers and suppliers.

(b)(1) An electronic or paper remittance advice (RA) notice is the notice of initial determination sent to providers and suppliers that accept assignment.

(i) The electronic RA must comply with the format and content requirements of the standard adopted for national use by covered entities under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and related CMS manual instructions.

(ii) When a paper RA is mailed, it must comply with CMS manual instructions that parallel the HIPAA data content and coding requirements.

(2) The notice of initial determination must contain all of the following:

(i) The basis for any full or partial denial determination of services or items on the claim.

(ii) Information on the right to a redetermination if the provider or supplier is dissatisfied with the outcome of the initial determination.

(iii) All applicable claim adjustment reason and remark codes to explain the determination.

(iv) The source of the RA and who may be contacted if the provider or supplier requires further information.

(v) All content requirements of the standard adopted for national use by covered entities under HIPAA.

(vi) Any other requirements specified by CMS.
