
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Initial Determinations
####### § 405.924 Actions that are initial determinations.
######## Applications and entitlement of individuals.

(a)SSA makes initial determinations and processes reconsiderations with respect to an individual on the following:

(1) A determination with respect to entitlement to hospital insurance or supplementary medical insurance under Medicare.

(2) A disallowance of an individual's application for entitlement to hospital or supplementary medical insurance, if the individual fails to submit evidence requested by SSA to support the application. (SSA specifies in the initial determination the conditions of entitlement that the applicant failed to establish by not submitting the requested evidence).

(3) A denial of a request for withdrawal of an application for hospital or supplementary medical insurance, or a denial of a request for cancellation of a request for withdrawal.

(4) A determination as to whether an individual, previously determined as entitled to hospital or supplementary medical insurance, is no longer entitled to those benefits, including a determination based on nonpayment of premiums.

(5) An adjustment of premium for hospital or supplementary medical insurance as outlined in §§ 406.32(d), 408.20(e), and 408.22 of this chapter, and 20 CFR 418.1301.
