
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Initial Determinations
####### ยง 405.929 Post-payment review.

(a) A contractor may select a claim(s) for post-payment review, which is conducted under the reopening authority in ยง 405.980.

(b) In conducting a post-payment review, a contractor may issue an additional documentation request to a provider or supplier.

(1) A provider or supplier will be provided 45 calendar days to submit additional documentation in response to a contractor's request, except as stated in paragraph (b)(2) and (c) of this section.

(2) A contractor may accept documentation received after 45 calendar days for good cause. Good cause means situations such as natural disasters, interruptions in business practices, or other extenuating circumstances that the contractor deems good cause in accepting the documentation.

(c) A provider or supplier will be provided 30 calendar days to submit additional documentation in response to a UPIC's request for additional documentation. A UPIC may accept documentation received after 30 calendar days for good cause. Good cause means situations such as natural disasters, interruptions in business practices, or other extenuating circumstances that the UPIC deems good cause in accepting the documentation.

(d) The outcome of a contractor's review will result in either no change to the initial determination or a revised determination under ยง 405.984.
