
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 8 - MEDICATION ASSISTED TREATMENT FOR OPIOID USE DISORDERS
##### Subpart C - Certification and Treatment Standards for Opioid Treatment Programs
###### ยง 8.12 Federal opioid treatment standards.
####### Interim maintenance treatment.

(j)(1) The program sponsor of a public or nonprofit private OTP may place an individual, who is eligible for admission to comprehensive maintenance treatment, in interim maintenance treatment if the individual cannot be placed in a public or nonprofit private comprehensive program within a reasonable geographic area and within 14 days of the individual's application for admission to comprehensive maintenance treatment. An initial and at least two other urine screens shall be taken from interim patients during the maximum of 120 days permitted for such treatment. A program shall establish and follow reasonable criteria for establishing priorities for transferring patients from interim maintenance to comprehensive maintenance treatment. These transfer criteria shall be in writing and shall include, at a minimum, a preference for pregnant women in admitting patients to interim maintenance and in transferring patients from interim maintenance to comprehensive maintenance treatment. Interim maintenance shall be provided in a manner consistent with all applicable Federal and State laws, including sections 1923, 1927(a), and 1976 of the Public Health Service Act (21 U.S.C. 300x-23, 300x-27(a), and 300y-11).

(2) The program shall notify the State health officer when a patient begins interim maintenance treatment, when a patient leaves interim maintenance treatment, and before the date of mandatory transfer to a comprehensive program, and shall document such notifications.

(3) SAMHSA may revoke the interim maintenance authorization for programs that fail to comply with the provisions of this paragraph (j). Likewise, SAMHSA will consider revoking the interim maintenance authorization of a program if the State in which the program operates is not in compliance with the provisions of ยง 8.11(g).

(4) All requirements for comprehensive maintenance treatment apply to interim maintenance treatment with the following exceptions:

(i) The opioid agonist treatment medication is required to be administered daily under observation;

(ii) Unsupervised or "take-home" use is not allowed;

(iii) An initial treatment plan and periodic treatment plan evaluations are not required;

(iv) A primary counselor is not required to be assigned to the patient;

(v) Interim maintenance cannot be provided for longer than 120 days in any 12-month period; and

(vi) Rehabilitative, education, and other counseling services described in paragraphs (f)(4), (f)(5)(i), and (f)(5)(iii) of this section are not required to be provided to the patient.
