
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Reopenings
####### ยง 405.980 Reopening of initial determinations, redeterminations, reconsiderations, decisions, and reviews.
######## Time frame and requirements for reopening initial determinations and redeterminations requested by a party.

(c)(1) A party may request that a contractor reopen its initial determination or redetermination within 1 year from the date of the initial determination or redetermination for any reason.

(2) A party may request that a contractor reopen its initial determination or redetermination within 4 years from the date of the initial determination or redetermination for good cause in accordance with ยง 405.986.

(3) A party may request that a contractor reopen its initial determination at any time if the initial determination is unfavorable, in whole or in part, to the party thereto, but only for the purpose of correcting a clerical error on which that determination was based. Third party payer error does not constitute clerical error. See ยง 405.986(c).

(4) A party may request that a contractor reopen an initial determination for the purpose of reporting and returning an overpayment under ยง 401.305 of this chapter.
