
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Reopenings
####### ยง 405.980 Reopening of initial determinations, redeterminations, reconsiderations, decisions, and reviews.
######## Time frame and requirements for reopening reconsiderations, decisions and reviews initiated by a QIC, ALJ or attorney adjudicator, or the Council.

(d)(1) A QIC may reopen its reconsideration on its own motion within 180 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration for good cause in accordance with ยง 405.986. If the QIC's reconsideration was procured by fraud or similar fault, then the QIC may reopen at any time.

(2) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may reopen his or her decision, or the Council may reopen an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision on its own motion within 180 calendar days from the date of the decision for good cause in accordance with ยง 405.986. If the decision was procured by fraud or similar fault, then the ALJ or attorney adjudicator may reopen his or her decision, or the Council may reopen an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision, at any time.

(3) The Council may reopen its review decision on its own motion within 180 calendar days from the date of the review decision for good cause in accordance with ยง 405.986. If the Council's decision was procured by fraud or similar fault, then the Council may reopen at any time.
