
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### § 405.1004 Right to a review of QIC notice of dismissal.

(a) A party to a QIC's dismissal of a request for reconsideration has a right to have the dismissal reviewed by an ALJ or attorney adjudicator if-

(1) The party files a written request for review within 60 calendar days after receipt of the notice of the QIC's dismissal.

(2) The party meets the amount in controversy requirements of § 405.1006.

(3) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the QIC's dismissal is presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the dismissal notice, unless there is evidence to the contrary.

(4) For purposes of meeting the 60 calendar day filing deadline, the request is considered as filed on the date it is received by the office specified in the QIC's dismissal.

(b) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator determines that the QIC's dismissal was in error, he or she vacates the dismissal and remands the case to the QIC for a reconsideration in accordance with § 405.1056.

(c) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator affirms the QIC's dismissal of a reconsideration request, he or she issues a notice of decision affirming the QIC dismissal in accordance with § 405.1046(b).

(d) The ALJ or attorney adjudicator may dismiss the request for review of a QIC's dismissal in accordance with § 405.1052(b).
