
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1014 Request for an ALJ hearing or a review of a QIC dismissal.
######## Content of the request.

(a)(1) The request for an ALJ hearing or a review of a QIC dismissal must be made in writing. The request must include all of the following-

(i) The name, address, and Medicare health number of the beneficiary whose claim is being appealed, and the beneficiary's telephone number if the beneficiary is the appealing party and not represented.

(ii) The name, address, and telephone number, of the appellant, when the appellant is not the beneficiary.

(iii) The name, address, and telephone number, of the designated representative, if any.

(iv) The Medicare appeal number or document control number, if any, assigned to the QIC reconsideration or dismissal notice being appealed.

(v) The dates of service of the claim(s) being appealed, if applicable.

(vi) The reasons the appellant disagrees with the QIC's reconsideration or other determination being appealed.

(2) The appellant must submit a statement of any additional evidence to be submitted and the date it will be submitted.

(3) Special rule for appealing statistical sample and/or extrapolation. If the appellant disagrees with how a statistical sample and/or extrapolation was conducted, the appellant must-

(i) Include the information in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section for each sample claim that the appellant wishes to appeal;

(ii) File the request for hearing for all sampled claims that the appellant wishes to appeal within 60 calendar days of the date the party receives the last reconsideration for the sample claims, if they were not all addressed in a single reconsideration; and

(iii) Assert the reasons the appellant disagrees with how the statistical sample and/or extrapolation was conducted in the request for hearing.
