
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1014 Request for an ALJ hearing or a review of a QIC dismissal.
######## Extension of time to request a hearing or review.

(e)(1) If the request for hearing or review of a QIC dismissal is not filed within 60 calendar days of receipt of the QIC's reconsideration or dismissal, an appellant may request an extension for good cause (See ยง 405.942(b)(2) and (3)).

(2) Any request for an extension of time must be in writing, give the reasons why the request for a hearing or review was not filed within the stated time period, and must be filed with the request for hearing or request for review of a QIC dismissal, or upon notice that the request may be dismissed because it was not timely filed, with the office specified in the notice of reconsideration or dismissal.

(3) An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may find there is good cause for missing the deadline to file a request for an ALJ hearing or request for review of a QIC dismissal, or there is no good cause for missing the deadline to file a request for a review of a QIC dismissal, but only an ALJ may find there is no good cause for missing the deadline to file a request for an ALJ hearing. If good cause is found for missing the deadline, the time period for filing the request for hearing or request for review of a QIC dismissal will be extended. To determine whether good cause for late filing exists, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator uses the standards set forth in ยง 405.942(b)(2) and (3).

(4) If a request for hearing is not timely filed, any applicable adjudication period in ยง 405.1016 begins the date the ALJ or attorney adjudicator grants the request to extend the filing deadline.

(5) A determination granting a request to extend the filing deadline is not subject to further review.
