
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1020 Time and place for a hearing before an ALJ.
######## A party's request for an in-person or VTC hearing.

(i)(1) If an unrepresented beneficiary who filed the request for hearing objects to a VTC hearing or to the ALJ's offer to conduct a hearing by telephone, or if a party other than an unrepresented beneficiary who filed the request for hearing objects to a telephone or VTC hearing, the party must notify the ALJ at the earliest possible opportunity before the time set for the hearing and request a VTC or an in-person hearing.

(2) The party must state the reason for the objection and state the time and/or place he or she wants an in-person or VTC hearing to be held.

(3) The request must be in writing.

(4) When a party's request for an in-person or VTC hearing as specified under paragraph (i)(1) of this section is granted and an adjudication time frame applies in accordance with ยง 405.1016, the ALJ issues a decision, dismissal, or remand to the QIC within the adjudication time frame specified in ยง 405.1016 (including any applicable extensions provided in this subpart) unless the party requesting the hearing agrees to waive such adjudication time frame in writing.

(5) The ALJ may grant the request, with the concurrence of the Chief ALJ or designee if the request was for an in-person hearing, upon a finding of good cause and will reschedule the hearing for a time and place when the party may appear in person or by VTC before the ALJ. Good cause is not required for a request for VTC hearing made by an unrepresented beneficiary who filed the request for hearing and objects to an ALJ's offer to conduct a hearing by telephone.
