
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1022 Notice of a hearing before an ALJ.
######## Notice information.

(b)(1) The notice of hearing contains-

(i) A statement that the issues before the ALJ include all of the issues brought out in the initial determination, redetermination, or reconsideration that were not decided entirely in a party's favor, for the claims specified in the request for hearing; and

(ii) A statement of any specific new issues the ALJ will consider in accordance with ยง 405.1032.

(2) The notice will inform the parties that they may designate a person to represent them during the proceedings.

(3) The notice must include an explanation of the procedures for requesting a change in the time or place of the hearing, a reminder that the ALJ may dismiss the hearing request if the appellant fails to appear at the scheduled hearing without good cause, and other information about the scheduling and conduct of the hearing.

(4) The appellant will also be told if his or her appearance or that of any other party or witness is scheduled by VTC, telephone, or in person. If the ALJ has scheduled the appellant or other party to appear at the hearing by VTC, the notice of hearing will advise that the scheduled place for the hearing is a VTC site and explain what it means to appear at the hearing by VTC.

(5) The notice advises the appellant or other parties that if they object to appearing by VTC or telephone, and wish instead to have their hearing at a time and place where they may appear in person before the ALJ, they must follow the procedures set forth at ยง 405.1020(i) for notifying the ALJ of their objections and for requesting an in-person hearing.
