
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### § 405.1030 ALJ hearing procedures.
######## At the hearing.

(b)(1) At the hearing, the ALJ fully examines the issues, questions the parties and other witnesses, and may accept evidence that is material to the issues consistent with §§ 405.1018 and 405.1028.

(2) The ALJ may limit testimony and/or argument at the hearing that are not relevant to an issue before the ALJ, that are repetitive of evidence or testimony already in the record, or that relate to an issue that has been sufficiently developed or on which the ALJ has already ruled. The ALJ may, but is not required to, provide the party or representative with an opportunity to submit additional written statements and affidavits on the matter, in lieu of testimony and/or argument at the hearing. The written statements and affidavits must be submitted within the time frame designated by the ALJ.

(3) If the ALJ determines that a party or party's representative is uncooperative, disruptive to the hearing, or abusive during the course of the hearing after the ALJ has warned the party or representative to stop such behavior, the ALJ may excuse the party or representative from the hearing and continue with the hearing to provide the other parties and participants with an opportunity to offer testimony and/or argument. If a party or representative was excused from the hearing, the ALJ will provide the party or representative with an opportunity to submit written statements and affidavits in lieu of testimony and/or argument at the hearing, and the party or representative may request a recording of the hearing in accordance with § 405.1042 and respond in writing to any statements made by other parties or participants and/or testimony of the witnesses at the hearing. The written statements and affidavits must be submitted within the time frame designated by the ALJ.
