
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1036 Description of an ALJ hearing process.
######## General rule.,Exception.

(i)An ALJ ruling on a subpoena request is not subject to immediate review by the Council. The ruling may be reviewed solely during the course of the Council's review specified in ยง 405.1016(e) and (f), ยง 405.1102, or ยง 405.1110, as applicable.To the extent a subpoena compels disclosure of a matter for which an objection based on privilege, or other protection from disclosure such as case preparation, confidentiality, or undue burden, was made before an ALJ, the Council may review immediately the subpoena or that portion of the subpoena as applicable.

(ii) Where CMS objects to a subpoena ruling, the Council must take review and the subpoena ruling at issue is automatically stayed pending the Council's order.

(iii) Upon notice to the ALJ that a party or non-party, as applicable, intends to seek Council review of the subpoena, the ALJ must stay all proceedings affected by the subpoena.

(iv) The ALJ determines the length of the stay under the circumstances of a given case, but in no event is the stay less than 15 calendar days beginning after the day on which the ALJ received notice of the party or non-party's intent to seek Council review.

(v) If the Council grants a request for review of the subpoena, the subpoena or portion of the subpoena, as applicable, is stayed until the Council issues a written decision that affirms, reverses, or modifies the ALJ's action on the subpoena.

(vi) If the Council does not grant review or take own motion review within the time allotted for the stay, the stay is lifted and the ALJ's action stands.
