
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1037 Discovery.
######## Motions to compel or for protective order.

(d)(1) Each party is required to make a good faith effort to resolve or narrow any discovery dispute.

(2) A party may submit to the ALJ a motion to compel discovery that is permitted under this section or any ALJ order, and a party may submit a motion for a protective order regarding any discovery request to the ALJ.

(3) Any motion to compel or for protective order must include a self-sworn declaration describing the movant's efforts to resolve or narrow the discovery dispute. The declaration must also be included with any response to a motion to compel or for protective order.

(4) The ALJ must decide any motion in accordance with this section and any prior discovery ruling in the appeal.

(5) The ALJ must issue and mail to each party a discovery ruling that grants or denies the motion to compel or for protective order in whole or in part; if applicable, the discovery ruling must specifically identify any part of the disputed discovery request upheld and any part rejected, and impose any limits on discovery the ALJ finds necessary and appropriate.
