
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1037 Discovery.
######## Exception.

(2)To the extent a ruling authorizes discovery or disclosure of a matter for which an objection based on privilege, or other protection from disclosure such as case preparation, confidentiality, or undue burden, was made before the ALJ, the Council may review that portion of the discovery or disclosure ruling immediately.

(i) Where CMS objects to a discovery ruling, the Council must take review and the discovery ruling at issue is automatically stayed pending the Council's order.

(ii) Upon notice to the ALJ that a party intends to seek Council review of the ruling, the ALJ must stay all proceedings affected by the ruling.

(iii) The ALJ determines the length of the stay under the circumstances of a given case, but in no event must the length of the stay be less than 15 calendar days beginning after the day on which the ALJ received notice of the party or non-party's intent to seek Council review.

(iv) Where CMS requests the Council to take review of a discovery ruling or where the Council grants a request, made by a party other than CMS, to review a discovery ruling, the ruling is stayed until the time the Council issues a written decision that affirms, reverses, modifies, or remands the ALJ's ruling.

(v) With respect to a request from a party, other than CMS, for review of a discovery ruling, if the Council does not grant review or take own motion review within the time allotted for the stay, the stay is lifted and the ruling stands.
