
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### ยง 405.1042 The administrative record.
######## Creating the record.

(a)(1) OMHA makes a complete record of the evidence and administrative proceedings on the appealed matter, including any prehearing and posthearing conferences, and hearing proceedings that were conducted.

(2) The record will include marked as exhibits, the appealed determinations, and documents and other evidence used in making the appealed determinations and the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision, including, but not limited to, claims, medical records, written statements, certificates, reports, affidavits, and any other evidence the ALJ or attorney adjudicator admits. The record will also include any evidence excluded or not considered by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, including, but not limited to, new evidence submitted by a provider or supplier, or beneficiary represented by a provider or supplier, for which no good cause was established, and duplicative evidence submitted by a party.

(3) A party may request and review a copy of the record prior to or at the hearing, or, if a hearing is not held, at any time before the notice of decision is issued.

(4) If a request for review is filed or the case is escalated to the Council, the complete record, including any prehearing and posthearing conference and hearing recordings, is forwarded to the Council.

(5) A typed transcription of the hearing is prepared if a party seeks judicial review of the case in a Federal district court within the stated time period and all other jurisdictional criteria are met, unless, upon the Secretary's motion prior to the filing of an answer, the court remands the case.
