
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### § 405.1044 Consolidated proceedings.
######## Consolidated hearing.

(a)(1) A consolidated hearing may be held if one or more of the issues to be considered at the hearing are the same issues that are involved in one or more other appeals pending before the same ALJ.

(2) It is within the discretion of the ALJ to grant or deny an appellant's request for consolidation. In considering an appellant's request, the ALJ may consider factors such as whether the claims at issue may be more efficiently decided if the appeals are consolidated for hearing. In considering the appellant's request for consolidation, the ALJ must take into account any adjudication deadlines for each appeal and may require an appellant to waive the adjudication deadline associated with one or more appeals if consolidation otherwise prevents the ALJ from deciding all of the appeals at issue within their respective deadlines.

(3) The ALJ may also propose on his or her own motion to consolidate two or more appeals in one hearing for administrative efficiency, but may not require an appellant to waive the adjudication deadline for any of the consolidated cases.

(4) Notice of a consolidated hearing must be included in the notice of hearing issued in accordance with §§ 405.1020 and 405.1022.
