
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ALJ Hearings
####### § 405.1052 Dismissal of a request for a hearing before an ALJ or request for review of a QIC dismissal.
######## Dismissal of request for review of a QIC dismissal.

(b)An ALJ or attorney adjudicator dismisses a request for review of a QIC dismissal under any of the following conditions:

(1) The person or entity requesting a review of a dismissal has no right to it under § 405.1004.

(2) The party did not request a review within the stated time period and the ALJ or attorney adjudicator has not found good cause for extending the deadline, as provided in § 405.1014(e).

(3) The beneficiary whose claim is being appealed died while the request for review is pending and all of the following criteria apply:

(i) The request for review was filed by the beneficiary or the beneficiary's representative, and the beneficiary's surviving spouse or estate has no remaining financial interest in the case. In deciding this issue, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator considers if the surviving spouse or estate remains liable for the services that were denied or a Medicare contractor held the beneficiary liable for subsequent similar services under the limitation on liability provisions based on the denial of the services at issue.

(ii) No other individuals or entities that have a financial interest in the case wish to pursue an appeal under § 405.1004.

(iii) No other individual or entity filed a valid and timely request for a review of the QIC dismissal in accordance to § 405.1014.

(4) The appellant's request is not complete in accordance with § 405.1014(a)(1) or the appellant, other than an unrepresented beneficiary, did not send a copy of its request to the other parties in accordance with § 405.1014(d), after the appellant is provided with an opportunity to complete the request and/or send a copy of the request to the other parties.
