
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Medicare Appeals Council Review
####### § 405.1102 Request for Council review when ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues decision or dismissal.

(a)(1) A party to a decision or dismissal issued by an ALJ or attorney adjudicator may request a Council review if the party files a written request for a Council review within 60 calendar days after receipt of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or dismissal.

(2) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or dismissal is presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the notice of the decision or dismissal, unless there is evidence to the contrary.

(3) The request is considered as filed on the date it is received by the entity specified in the notice of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action.

(b) A party requesting a review may ask that the time for filing a request for Council review be extended if-

(1) The request for an extension of time is in writing;

(2) It is filed with the Council; and

(3) It explains why the request for review was not filed within the stated time period. If the Council finds that there is good cause for missing the deadline, the time period will be extended. To determine whether good cause exists, the Council uses the standards outlined at § 405.942(b)(2) and (3).

(c) A party does not have the right to seek Council review of an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's remand to a QIC, affirmation of a QIC's dismissal of a request for reconsideration, or dismissal of a request for review of a QIC dismissal.

(d) For purposes of requesting Council review (§§ 405.1100 through 405.1140), unless specifically excepted, the term "party", includes CMS where CMS has entered into a case as a party according to § 405.1012. The term, "appellant," does not include CMS, where CMS has entered into a case as a party according to § 405.1012.
