
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Medicare Appeals Council Review
####### § 405.1110 Council reviews on its own motion.
######## Referral of cases.

(b)(1) CMS or any of its contractors may refer a case to the Council if, in their view, the decision or dismissal contains an error of law material to the outcome of the claim or presents a broad policy or procedural issue that may affect the public interest. CMS may also request that the Council take own motion review of a case if-

(i) CMS or its contractor participated in the appeal at the OMHA level; and

(ii) In CMS' view, the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or dismissal is not supported by the preponderance of evidence in the record or the ALJ or attorney adjudicator abused his or her discretion.

(2) CMS' referral to the Council is made in writing and must be filed with the Council no later than 60 calendar days after the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or dismissal is received. The written referral will state the reasons why CMS believes the Council must review the case on its own motion. CMS will send a copy of its referral to all parties to the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action who received a copy of the decision under § 405.1046(a) or the notice of dismissal under § 405.1052(d), and to the OMHA Chief ALJ. Parties to the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action may file exceptions to the referral by submitting written comments to the Council within 20 calendar days of the referral notice. A party submitting comments to the Council must send such comments to CMS and all other parties to the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action who received a copy of the decision under § 405.1046(a) or the notice of dismissal under § 405.1052(d).
