
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### Medicare Appeals Council Review
####### ยง 405.1112 Content of request for review.

(a) The request for Council review must be filed with the entity specified in the notice of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action. The request for review must be in writing and may be made on a standard form. A written request that is not made on a standard form is accepted if it contains the beneficiary's name; Medicare number; the specific service(s) or item(s) for which the review is requested; the specific date(s) of service; the date of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision or dismissal order, if any; and the name of the party or the representative of the party; and any other information CMS may decide.

(b) The request for review must identify the parts of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action with which the party requesting review disagrees and explain why he or she disagrees with the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision, dismissal, or other determination being appealed. For example, if the party requesting review believes that the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's action is inconsistent with a statute, regulation, CMS Ruling, or other authority, the request for review should explain why the appellant believes the action is inconsistent with that authority.

(c) The Council will limit its review of an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's actions to those exceptions raised by the party in the request for review, unless the appellant is an unrepresented beneficiary. For purposes of this section only, we define a representative as anyone who has accepted an appointment as the beneficiary's representative, except a member of the beneficiary's family, a legal guardian, or an individual who routinely acts on behalf of the beneficiary, such as a family member or friend who has a power of attorney.
