
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart I - Determinations, Redeterminations, Reconsiderations, and Appeals Under Original Medicare (Part A and Part B)
###### ยง 405.906 Parties to the initial determinations, redeterminations, reconsiderations, hearings, and reviews.
####### Parties to the initial determination.

(a)The parties to the initial determination are the following individuals and entities:

(1) A beneficiary who files a claim for payment under Medicare Part A or Part B or has had a claim for payment filed on his or her behalf, or in the case of a deceased beneficiary, when there is no estate, any person obligated to make or entitled to receive payment in accordance with part 424, subpart E of this chapter. Payment by a third party payer does not entitle that entity to party status.

(2) A supplier who has accepted assignment for items or services furnished to a beneficiary that are at issue in the claim.

(3) A provider of services who files a claim for items or services furnished to a beneficiary.

(4) An applicable plan for an initial determination under ยง 405.924(b)(16) where Medicare is pursuing recovery directly from the applicable plan. The applicable plan is the sole party to an initial determination under ยง 405.924(b)(16) (that is, where Medicare is pursuing recovery directly from the applicable plan).
