
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart J - Expedited Determinations and Reconsiderations of Provider Service Terminations, and Procedures for Inpatient Hospital Discharges
###### ยง 405.1202 Expedited determination procedures.
####### Procedures the QIO must follow.

(e)(1) On the day the QIO receives the request for an expedited determination under paragraph (b) of this section, it must immediately notify the provider of those services that a request for an expedited determination has been made.

(2) The QIO determines whether the provider delivered valid notice of the termination decision consistent with ยง 405.1200(b) and paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) The QIO examines the medical and other records that pertain to the services in dispute. If applicable, the QIO determines whether a physician has certified that failure to continue the provision of services may place the beneficiary's health at significant risk.

(4) The QIO must solicit the views of the beneficiary who requested the expedited determination.

(5) The QIO must provide an opportunity for the provider/practitioner to explain why the termination or discharge is appropriate.

(6) No later than 72 hours after receipt of the request for an expedited determination, the QIO must notify the beneficiary, beneficiary's physician, and the provider of services of its determination whether termination of Medicare coverage is the correct decision, either on the basis of medical necessity or based on other Medicare coverage policies.

(7) If the QIO does not receive the information needed to sustain a provider's decision to terminate services, it may make its determination based on the evidence at hand, or it may defer a decision until it receives the necessary information. If this delay results in extended Medicare coverage of an individual's provider services, the provider may be held financially liable for these services, as determined by the QIO.

(8) The QIO's initial notification may be by telephone, followed by a written notice including the following information:

(i) The rationale for the determination;

(ii) An explanation of the Medicare payment consequences of the determination and the date a beneficiary becomes fully liable for the services; and

(iii) Information about the beneficiary's right to a reconsideration of the QIO's determination, including how to request a reconsideration and the time period for doing so.
