
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart J - Expedited Determinations and Reconsiderations of Provider Service Terminations, and Procedures for Inpatient Hospital Discharges
###### ยง 405.1204 Expedited reconsiderations.
####### Procedures the QIC must follow.

(c)(1) On the day the QIC receives the request for an expedited determination under paragraph (b) of this section, the QIC must immediately notify the QIO that made the expedited determination and the provider of services of the request for an expedited reconsideration.

(2) The QIC must offer the beneficiary and the provider an opportunity to provide further information.

(3) Unless the beneficiary requests an extension in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of this section, no later than 72 hours after receipt of the request for an expedited reconsideration, and any medical or other records needed for such reconsideration, the QIC must notify the QIO, the beneficiary, the beneficiary's physician, and the provider of services, of its decision on the reconsideration request.

(4) The QIC's initial notification may be done by telephone, followed by a written notice including:

(i) The rationale for the reconsideration decision;

(ii) An explanation of the Medicare payment consequences of the determination and the beneficiary's date of liability; and

(iii) Information about the beneficiary's right to appeal the QIC's reconsideration decision to OMHA for an ALJ hearing in accordance with subpart I of this part, including how to request an appeal and the time period for doing so.

(5) Unless the beneficiary requests an extension in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of this section, if the QIC does not issue a decision within 72 hours of receipt of the request, the QIC must notify the beneficiary of his or her right to have the case escalated to OMHA for an ALJ hearing in accordance with subpart I of this part, if the amount remaining in controversy after the QIO determination meets the requirements for an ALJ hearing under ยง 405.1006.

(6) A beneficiary requesting an expedited reconsideration under this section may request (either in writing or orally) that the QIC grant such additional time as the beneficiary specifies (not to exceed 14 days) for the reconsideration. If an extension is granted, the deadlines in paragraph (c)(3) of this section do not apply.
