
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart J - Expedited Determinations and Reconsiderations of Provider Service Terminations, and Procedures for Inpatient Hospital Discharges
###### ยง 405.1206 Expedited determination procedures for inpatient hospital care.
####### Requesting an expedited determination.

(b)(1) A beneficiary who wishes to exercise the right to an expedited determination must submit a request to the QIO that has an agreement with the hospital as specified in ยง 476.78 of this chapter. The request must be made no later than the day of discharge and may be in writing or by telephone.

(2) The beneficiary, or his or her representative, upon request by the QIO, must be available to discuss the case.

(3) The beneficiary may, but is not required to, submit written evidence to be considered by a QIO in making its decision.

(4) A beneficiary who makes a timely request for an expedited QIO review in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subject to the financial liability protections under paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section, as applicable.

(5) A beneficiary who fails to make a timely request for an expedited determination by a QIO, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and remains in the hospital without coverage, still may request an expedited QIO determination at any time during the hospitalization. The QIO will issue a decision in accordance with paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, however, the financial liability protection under paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section does not apply.

(6) A beneficiary who fails to make a timely request for an expedited determination in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and who is no longer an inpatient in the hospital, may request QIO review within 30 calendar days after the date of discharge, or at any time for good cause. The QIO will issue a decision in accordance with paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section; however, the financial liability protection under paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section does not apply.
