
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart J - Expedited Determinations and Reconsiderations of Provider Service Terminations, and Procedures for Inpatient Hospital Discharges
###### ยง 405.1206 Expedited determination procedures for inpatient hospital care.
####### Procedures the QIO must follow.

(d)(1) When the QIO receives the request for an expedited determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it must immediately notify the hospital that a request for an expedited determination has been made.

(2) The QIO determines whether the hospital delivered valid notice consistent with ยง 405.1205(b)(3).

(3) The QIO examines the medical and other records that pertain to the services in dispute.

(4) The QIO must solicit the views of the beneficiary (or the beneficiary's representative) who requested the expedited determination.

(5) The QIO must provide an opportunity for the hospital to explain why the discharge is appropriate.

(6)(i) When the beneficiary requests an expedited determination in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the QIO must make a determination and notify the beneficiary, the hospital, and physician of its determination within one calendar day after it receives all requested pertinent information.

(ii) When the beneficiary makes an untimely request for an expedited determination, and remains in the hospital, consistent with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the QIO will make a determination and notify the beneficiary, the hospital, and the physician of its determination within 2 calendar days following receipt of the request and pertinent information.

(iii) When the beneficiary makes an untimely request for an expedited determination, and is no longer an inpatient in the hospital, consistent with paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the QIO will make a determination and notify the beneficiary, the hospital, and physician of its determination within 30 calendar days after receipt of the request and pertinent information.

(7) If the QIO does not receive the information needed to sustain a hospital's decision to discharge, it may make its determination based on the evidence at hand, or it may defer a decision until it receives the necessary information. If this delay results in extended Medicare coverage of an individual's hospital services, the hospital may be held financially liable for these services, as determined by the QIO.

(8) When the QIO issues an expedited determination, the QIO must notify the beneficiary, the physician, and hospital of its decision by telephone, followed by a written notice that must include the following information:

(i) The basis for the determination.

(ii) A detailed rationale for the determination.

(iii) An explanation of the Medicare payment consequences of the determination and the date a beneficiary becomes fully liable for the services.

(iv) Information about the beneficiary's right to a reconsideration of the QIO's determination as set forth in ยง 405.1204, including how to request a reconsideration and the time period for doing so.
