
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart J - Expedited Determinations and Reconsiderations of Provider Service Terminations, and Procedures for Inpatient Hospital Discharges
###### ยง 405.1206 Expedited determination procedures for inpatient hospital care.
####### Responsibilities of hospitals.

(e)(1) When a QIO notifies a hospital that a beneficiary has requested an expedited determination, the hospital must deliver a detailed notice to the beneficiary as soon as possible but no later than noon of the day after the QIO's notification. The detailed notice must include the following information:

(i) A detailed explanation why services are either no longer reasonable and necessary or are otherwise no longer covered.

(ii) A description of any applicable Medicare coverage rule, instruction, or other Medicare policy, including information about how the beneficiary may obtain a copy of the Medicare policy.

(iii) Facts specific to the beneficiary and relevant to the coverage determination that are sufficient to advise the beneficiary of the applicability of the coverage rule or policy to the beneficiary's case.

(iv) Any other information required by CMS.

(2) Upon notification by the QIO of the request for an expedited determination, the hospital must supply all information that the QIO needs to make its expedited determination, including a copy of the notices required as specified in ยง 405.1205 (b) and (c) and paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The hospital must furnish this information as soon as possible, but no later than by noon of the day after the QIO notifies the hospital of the request for an expedited determination. At the discretion of the QIO, the hospital must make the information available by phone or in writing (with a written record of any information not transmitted initially in writing).

(3) At a beneficiary's (or representative's) request, the hospital must furnish the beneficiary with a copy of, or access to, any documentation that it sends to the QIO, including written records of any information provided by telephone. The hospital may charge the beneficiary a reasonable amount to cover the costs of duplicating the documentation and/or delivering it to the beneficiary. The hospital must accommodate such a request by no later than close of business of the first day after the material is requested.
