
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1801 Introduction.
####### Method for submissions and calculating time periods and deadlines.

(d)Except for subpoena requests being sent to a nonparty under § 405.1857(c), the reviewing entity may prescribe the method(s) by which a party must make a submission, including the requirement to use an electronic filing system for submission of documents. Such methods or instructions apply to any period of time or deadline prescribed or allowed under this subpart (for example, requests for appeal under §§ 405.1811(b), 405.1835(b), and 405.1837(c) and (e)) or authorized by a reviewing entity. In computing any period of time or deadline prescribed or allowed under this subpart or authorized by a reviewing entity the following principles are applicable:

(1) The day of the act, event, or default from which the designated time period begins to run is not included.

(2) Each succeeding calendar day, including the last day, is included in the designated time period, except that, in calculating a designated period of time for an act by a reviewing entity, a day is not included where the reviewing entity is unable to conduct business in the usual manner due to extraordinary circumstances beyond its control such as natural or other catastrophe, weather conditions, fire, or furlough. In that case, the designated time period resumes when the reviewing entity is again able to conduct business in the usual manner.

(3) If the last day of the designated time period is a Saturday, a Sunday, a Federal legal holiday (as enumerated in Rule 6(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure), or a day on which the reviewing entity is unable to conduct business in the usual manner, the deadline becomes the next day that is not one of the aforementioned days.

(4) For purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, the reviewing entity is deemed to also include-

(i) The contractor, if the contractor hearing officer(s) is not yet appointed (or none is currently presiding); and

(ii) The Office of the Attorney Advisor.
