
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1803 Contractor determination and notice of amount of program reimbursement.
####### Effect of certain final agency decisions and final court judgments; audits of self-disallowed and other items.

(d)(1) This paragraph applies to the following administrative decisions and court judgments:

(i) A final hearing decision by the contractor (as described in § 405.1833 of this subpart) or the Board (as described in § 405.1871(b) of this subpart).

(ii) A final decision by a CMS reviewing official (as described in § 405.1834(f)(1) of this subpart) or the Administrator (as described in § 405.1875(e)(4) of this subpart) following review of a hearing decision by the contractor or the Board, respectively.

(iii) A final, non-appealable judgment by a court on a Medicare reimbursement issue that the court rendered in accordance with jurisdiction under section 1878 of the Act (as described in §§ 405.1842 and 405.1877 of this subpart).

(2) For any final agency decision or final court judgment specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the contractor must promptly, upon notification from CMS-

(i) Determine the effect of the final decision or judgment on the contractor determination for the cost reporting period at issue in the decision or judgment; and

(ii) Issue any revised contractor determination, and make any additional program payment, or recoup or offset any program payment (as described in § 405.371 of this subpart), for the period that may be necessary to implement the final decision or judgment on the specific matters at issue in the decision or judgment.

(3) CMS may require the contractor to audit any item, including any self-disallowed item, at issue in an appeal or a civil action, before any revised contractor determination or additional Medicare payment, recoupment, or offset may be determined for an item under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(4) For any final settlement agreement, whether for an appeal to the contractor hearing officer(s) or the Board or for a civil action before a court, the contractor must implement the settlement agreement in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, unless a particular administrative or judicial settlement agreement provides otherwise.
