
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1811 Right to contractor hearing; contents of, and adding issues to, hearing request.
####### Contents of request for a contractor hearing based on untimely contractor determination.

(d)The provider's request for a contractor hearing under paragraph (c) of this section must be submitted in writing to the contractor, and the request must include the elements described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section. If the provider submits a hearing request that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1), (d)(2), or (d)(3) of this section, the contractor hearing officer may dismiss with prejudice the appeal or take any other remedial action he or she considers appropriate.

(1) A demonstration that the provider satisfies the requirements for a contractor hearing as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) An explanation (for each specific item at issue) of the following:

(i) Why the provider believes Medicare payment is incorrect for each disputed item (or, where applicable, why the provider is unable to determine whether Medicare payment is correct because it does not have access to underlying information concerning the calculation of Medicare payment).

(ii) How and why the provider believes Medicare payment must be determined differently for each disputed item.

(iii) If the provider self-disallows a specific item, a description of the nature and amount of each self-disallowed item and the reimbursement or payment sought for the item.

(3) A copy of any documentary evidence the provider considers necessary to satisfy the hearing request requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
