
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1814 Contractor hearing officer jurisdiction.
####### Final jurisdictional findings, and jurisdictional dismissal decisions by contractor hearing officer(s).

(c)(1) In issuing a hearing decision under § 405.1831 of this subpart, the contractor hearing officer(s) must make a final determination of its jurisdiction, or lack thereof, for each specific matter at issue in the hearing decision. Each contractor hearing decision must include specific findings of fact and conclusions of law as to the jurisdiction of the hearing officer(s), or lack thereof, to grant a hearing on each matter at issue in the appeal.

(2) If the hearing officer(s) finally determines it lacks jurisdiction to grant a hearing for every specific matter at issue in an appeal, it must issue a jurisdictional dismissal decision. Each jurisdictional dismissal decision by the hearing officer(s) must include specific findings of fact and conclusions of law explaining the determination that there is no jurisdiction to grant a hearing on each matter at issue in the appeal. A copy of the jurisdictional dismissal decision must be sent promptly to each party to the appeal.

(3) A jurisdictional dismissal decision by the contractor hearing officer(s) under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is final and binding on the parties, unless the decision is reviewed by a CMS reviewing official in accordance with § 405.1834 of this subpart or reopened and revised by the contractor hearing officer(s) in accordance with § 405.1885 through § 405.1889 of this subpart.
