
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1821 Prehearing discovery and other proceedings prior to the contractor hearing.
####### Discovery procedures. Rights of nonparties: Motions to compel or for protective order.

(c)(1) A party may request discovery of another party to the proceedings before the contractor hearing officer(s) or of a nonparty other than CMS, HHS or other Federal agency. Any discovery request filed with the contractor hearing officer(s) must be sent promptly to the party or nonparty from which the discovery is requested, and to any other party to the contractor hearing (as described in ยง 405.1815 of this subpart).

(2) If a discovery request is made of a nonparty to the contractor hearing, the nonparty has the rights any party has in responding to a discovery request. The rights of the nonparty include, but are not limited to, the right to select and use any attorney or other representative, and to submit discovery responses, objections, or motions to the hearing officer(s).

(3) Each party and nonparty is required to make a good faith effort to resolve or narrow any discovery dispute, regardless of whether the dispute is with another party or a nonparty.

(i) A party may submit to the contractor hearing officer(s) a motion to compel discovery that is permitted under this section, and a motion for a protective order regarding any discovery request may be submitted to the hearing officer(s) by a party or nonparty.

(ii) Any motion to compel or for protective order must include a self-sworn declaration describing the movant's efforts to resolve or narrow the discovery dispute. A self-sworn declaration describing efforts to resolve or narrow a discovery dispute also must be included with any response to a motion to compel or for a protective order.

(iii) The hearing officer(s) must-

(A) Decide the motion in accordance with this section and any prior discovery ruling; and

(B) Issue and send to each party and any affected nonparty a discovery ruling that grants or denies the motion to compel or for protective order in whole or in part; if applicable the discovery ruling must specifically identify any part of the disputed discovery request upheld and any part rejected, and impose any limits on discovery the hearing officer(s) finds necessary and appropriate. Nothing in this section authorizes the contractor hearing officer to compel any action from the Secretary or CMS.
