
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1834 CMS reviewing official procedure.
####### General rules.

(b)(1) A CMS reviewing official may immediately review any final decision of the contractor hearing officer(s) as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(i) Nonfinal decisions and other nonfinal actions by the contractor hearing officer(s) are not immediately reviewable, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(ii) The CMS reviewing official exercises this review authority in response to a request from a provider party to the appeal that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section or may exercise his or her discretion to take own motion review.

(2) A CMS reviewing official may immediately review the following:

(i) Any final jurisdictional dismissal decision by the contractor hearing officer(s), including any finding that the provider failed to demonstrate good cause for extending the time in which to request a hearing (as described in §§ 405.1813(e)(1) and 405.1814(c)(3) of this subpart).

(ii) Any final contractor hearing decision (as described in § 405.1831 of this subpart).

(iii) If the CMS reviewing official reviews a contractor hearing decision regarding a specific item, then the CMS reviewing official's review of such a contractor hearing decision will include, and any decision issued by the CMS reviewing official (under paragraph (e) of this section) will address, the contractor hearing officer(s)'s specific findings of fact and conclusions of law in such contractor hearing decision (as specified in § 405.1832(b)(1) and (d)) on the question of whether the provider's cost report included an appropriate claim for the specific item under appeal (as specified in § 413.24(j) of this chapter).

(3) Nonfinal decisions and other nonfinal actions by the contractor hearing officer(s) are not subject to the CMS reviewing official procedure until the contractor hearing officer(s) issues a final decision as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section (as described in §§ 405.1813(e)(2), 405.1814(c) and (d), and 405.1821(d)(1) of this subpart), except that the CMS reviewing official may immediately review a ruling, authorizing discovery or disclosure of a matter, where there is a claim of privilege or other protection from disclosure such as case preparation, confidentiality, or undue burden.

(4) In order to facilitate the Administrator's exercise of this review authority, the contractor hearing officer(s) must promptly send copies of any decision specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or in § 405.1821(d)(2) of this subpart to the appropriate component of CMS (currently the Center for Medicare Management).

(i) All requests for review by a CMS reviewing official and all written submissions to a CMS reviewing official under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section also must be sent to the appropriate component of CMS.

(ii) The appropriate CMS component examines each contractor hearing officer decision that is reviewable under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or § 405.1821(d)(2) of this subpart, along with any review requests and any other submissions made by a party in accordance with the provisions of this section, in order to assist the Administrator's exercise of this review authority.
