
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1834 CMS reviewing official procedure.
####### Request for review.

(c)(1) A provider's request for review by a CMS reviewing official is granted if-

(i) The date of receipt by the appropriate CMS component of the review request is no later than 60 days after the date of receipt by the provider of the contractor hearing officer decision; or

(ii) The request seeks review of a decision listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the provider complies with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) The provider must submit its request for review in writing, attach a copy of the contractor decision for which it seeks review and include a brief description of all of the following:

(i) Those aspects of the contractor hearing officer decision with which the provider is dissatisfied.

(ii) The reasons for the provider's dissatisfaction.

(iii) Any argument or record evidence the provider believes supports its position.

(iv) Any additional, extra-record evidence relied on by the provider, along with a demonstration that such evidence was improperly excluded from the contractor hearing (as described in ยง 405.1823 of this subpart).

(3) A provider request for immediate review of a contractor hearing officer ruling authorizing discovery or disclosure in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section must-

(i) Be made as soon as practicable after the ruling is made, but in no event later than 5 business days after the date it received notice of the ruling; and

(ii) State the reason(s) why the ruling is in error and the potential harm that may be caused if immediate review is not granted.
