
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1835 Right to Board hearing; contents of, and adding issues to, hearing request.
####### Contents of request for a Board hearing on final contractor determination.

(b)The provider's request for a Board hearing under paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted in writing in the manner prescribed by the Board, and the request must include the elements described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. If the provider submits a hearing request that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, the Board may dismiss with prejudice the appeal or take any other remedial action it considers appropriate.

(1) A demonstration that the provider satisfies the requirements for a Board hearing as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, including a specific identification of the final contractor or Secretary determination under appeal.

(2) For each specific item under appeal, a separate explanation of why, and a description of how, the provider is dissatisfied with the specific aspects of the final contractor or Secretary determination under appeal, including an account of all of the following:

(i) Why the provider believes Medicare payment is incorrect for each disputed item (or, where applicable, why the provider is unable to determine whether Medicare payment is correct because it does not have access to underlying information concerning the calculation of its payment).

(ii) How and why the provider believes Medicare payment must be determined differently for each disputed item.

(iii) If the provider self-disallows a specific item (as specified in ยง 413.24(j) of this chapter), an explanation of the nature and amount of each self-disallowed item, the reimbursement sought for the item, and why the provider self-disallowed the item instead of claiming reimbursement for the item.

(3) A copy of the final contractor or Secretary determination under appeal and any other documentary evidence the provider considers necessary to satisfy the hearing request requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(4) With respect to a provider under common ownership or control, the name and address of its parent corporation, and a statement that-

(i) To the best of the provider's knowledge, no other provider to which it is related by common ownership or control, has pending a request for a Board hearing pursuant to this section or pursuant to ยง 405.1837(b)(1) on any of the same issues contained in the provider's hearing request for a cost reporting period that ends within the same calendar year as the calendar year covered by the provider's hearing request; or

(ii) Such a pending appeal(s) exist(s), and the provider name(s), provider number(s), and the case number(s) (if assigned), for such appeal(s).
