
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1836 Good cause extension of time limit for requesting a Board hearing.

(a) A request for a Board hearing that the Board receives after the applicable 180-day time limit prescribed in § 405.1835(a)(3) or § 405.1835(c)(2) must be dismissed by the Board, except that the Board may extend the time limit upon a good cause showing by the provider.

(b) The Board may find good cause to extend the time limit only if the provider demonstrates in writing it could not reasonably be expected to file timely due to extraordinary circumstances beyond its control (such as a natural or other catastrophe, fire, or strike), and the provider's written request for an extension is received by the Board within a reasonable time (as determined by the Board under the circumstances) after the expiration of the applicable 180-day limit specified in § 405.1835(a)(3) or § 405.1835(c)(2).

(c) The Board may not grant a request for an extension under this section if-

(1) The provider relies on a change in the law, regulations, CMS Rulings, or general CMS instructions (whether based on a court decision or otherwise) or a CMS administrative ruling or policy as the basis for the extension request; or

(2) The date of receipt by the Board of the provider's extension request is later than 3 years after the date of the contractor or other determination that the provider seeks to appeal.

(d) If an extension request is granted or denied under this section, the Board must give prompt written notice to the provider, and send a copy of the notice to each party to the appeal. The notice must include a detailed explanation of the reasons for the decision by the Board and the facts underlying the decision.

(e)(1) If the Board denies an extension request and determines it lacks jurisdiction to grant a hearing for every specific matter at issue in an appeal, it must issue a Board dismissal decision dismissing the appeal for lack of Board jurisdiction. This decision by the Board must be in writing and include the explanation of the extension request denial required under paragraph (d) of this section, in addition to specific findings of fact and conclusions of law explaining the Board's determination that it lacks jurisdiction to grant a hearing on each matter at issue in the appeal (as described in § 405.1840(c) ). A copy of the Board's dismissal decision must be sent promptly to each party to the appeal (as described in § 405.1843).

(2) A Board dismissal decision under paragraph (e)(1) of this section is final and binding on the parties, unless the decision is reversed, affirmed, modified, or remanded by the Administrator under §§ 405.1875(a)(2)(ii) and 405.1875(e) or § 405.1875(f) of this subpart, no later than 60 days after the date of receipt by the provider of the Board's decision.

(i) This Board decision is inoperative during the 60-day period for review of the decision by the Administrator, or in the event the Administrator reverses, affirms, modifies, or remands that decision, within the period.

(ii) A Board decision under paragraph (e)(1) of this section that is otherwise final and binding may be reopened and revised by the Board in accordance with §§ 405.1885 through 405.1889 of this subpart.

(3) The Administrator may review a Board decision granting an extension request solely during the course of an Administrator review of one of the Board decisions specified as final, or deemed final by the Administrator, under § 405.1875(a)(2) of this subpart.

(4) A finding by the Board or the Administrator that the provider did or did not demonstrate good cause for extending the time for requesting a Board hearing is not subject to judicial review.
