
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1837 Group appeals.
####### Usage and filing of group appeals,Mandatory use of group appeals.

(b)-(1)(i) Two or more providers under common ownership or control that wish to appeal to the Board a specific matter at issue that involves a question of fact or interpretation of law, regulations, or CMS Rulings that is common to the providers, and that arises in cost reporting periods that end in the same calendar year, and for which the amount in controversy is $50,000 or more in the aggregate, must bring the appeal as a group appeal.

(ii) One or more of the providers under common ownership or control may appeal more than one cost reporting period with respect to the issue that is the subject of the group appeal for purposes of meeting the $50,000 amount in controversy requirement, and, subject to the Board's discretion, may appeal more than one cost reporting period with respect to the issue that is the subject of the group appeal for other purposes, such as convenience.

(iii) A group appeal involving two or more providers under common ownership or control must consist entirely of providers under common (to all) ownership or control.

(iv)(A) Example 1: A, B, C and D are commonly owned providers that wish to appeal issue X. This issue was adjusted on A, B and C's CY 2004 cost reports, and on D's CY 2005 cost report. The amount in controversy is more than $50,000 in the aggregate for providers A, B and C, and more than $10,000 for provider D. Providers A, B and C must appeal issue X as a group appeal. Provider D may pursue an individual appeal to the Board under the procedures set forth in ยง 405.1835 of this subpart, or if the Board agrees, Provider D may join the group appeal. (If Provider D joins the group appeal, the calendar years in the group appeal would then be 2004 and 2005, and any provider related to Providers A through D by common ownership or control would be required to appeal issue X for its cost reporting period ending in 2004 or 2005 through the group appeal.)

(B) Example 2: A, B and C are commonly owned providers that wish to appeal issue X. This issue was adjusted on A, B and C's CY 2004 cost reports. The amount in controversy is less than $50,000 in the aggregate for providers A, B and C ($10,000 for A, $10,000 for B and $7,000 for C). Providers A, B and C cannot appeal issue X as a group appeal. Provider A, if it wishes, and provider B, if it wishes, may pursue an individual appeal to the Board under the procedures set forth in ยง 405.1835 of this subpart. Provider C may not pursue an individual appeal to the Board, because the amount in controversy is less than $10,000; however, it may pursue an appeal to the contractor under the procedures set forth in ยง 405.1811 of this subpart.
