
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1837 Group appeals.
####### Group appeal procedures pending full formation of the group and issuance of a Board decision.

(e)(1) A provider (or providers) may file a group appeal hearing request with the Board under this section before each provider member of the group identifies or complies with paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, or before the group satisfies the $50,000 amount in controversy requirement under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Proceedings before the Board in any partially formed group appeal are subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3), and (e)(4) of this section. The Board will determine that a group appeal brought under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is fully formed upon a notice in writing from the group that it is fully formed. Absent such a notice from the group, the Board may issue an order, requiring the group to demonstrate (within a period of not less than 15 days) that at least one commonly owned or controlled provider has preserved the issue for appeal by claiming the relevant item on its cost report or by self-disallowing the item, but has not yet received its final determination with respect to the item for a cost year that is within the same calendar year as that covered by the group appeal (or that it has received its final determination with respect to the item for that period, and is still within the time to request a hearing on the issue). The Board determines that a group appeal brought under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is fully formed upon a notice in writing from the group that it is fully formed, or following an order from the Board that in its judgment, that the group is fully formed, or through general instructions that set forth a schedule for the closing of group appeals brought under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. When the Board has determined that a group appeal brought under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is fully formed, absent an order from the Board modifying its determination, no other provider under common ownership or control may appeal to the Board the issue that is the subject of the group appeal with respect to a cost reporting period that falls within the calendar year(s) covered by the group appeal.

(2) The Board may make jurisdictional findings under § 405.1840 at any time, including, but not limited to, following a request by the providers for the jurisdictional findings. The providers may request jurisdictional findings by notifying the Board in writing that the group appeal is fully formed, or that the providers believe they have satisfied all of the requirements for a group appeal hearing request, and the Board may proceed to make jurisdictional findings. The providers must include with the notice any additional information or documentary evidence that is required for group appeal hearing requests. The Board does not dismiss a group appeal hearing request for failure to meet the $50,000 amount in controversy requirement until the Board has determined, in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, that the group is fully formed.

(3) If the Board makes a preliminary determination of jurisdiction to conduct a hearing as a group appeal under this section, the Board then takes any further actions in the appeal it finds to be appropriate under this subpart (as described in § 405.1840(a) of this subpart). The Board may take further actions, even though the providers in the appeal may wish to add other providers to the group in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section. The Board must make separate jurisdictional findings for each cost reporting period added subsequently to the group appeal (as described in §§ 405.1837(a) and 405.1839(b) of this subpart).

(4) A provider may submit a request to the Board to join a group appeal any time before the Board issues one of the decisions specified in § 405.1875(a)(2). By submitting a request, the provider agrees that, if the request is granted, the provider is bound by the Board's actions and decision in the appeal. If the Board denies a request, the Board's action is without prejudice to any separate appeal the provider may bring in accordance with § 405.1811, § 405.1835, or this section. For purposes of determining timeliness for the filing of any separate appeal and for the adding of issues to such appeal, the date of receipt of the provider's request to form or join the group appeal is considered the date of receipt for purposes of meeting the applicable 180-day period prescribed in § 405.1835(a)(3) or § 405.1835(c)(2).

(5)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, when a provider has appealed an issue through electing to form, or joining, a group appeal under the procedures set forth in this section, it may not subsequently request that the Board transfer that issue to a single provider appeal brought in accordance with § 405.1811 or § 405.1835 of this subpart.
