
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1839 Amount in controversy.
####### Limitations on change in Medicare reimbursement.

(c)(1) In order to satisfy the applicable amount in controversy requirement for a single provider appeal or a group appeal, an appeal favorable to the provider(s) on all specific matters at issue in the appeal increases program reimbursement for the provider(s) in the cost reporting period(s) at issue by an amount that equals or exceeds the applicable amount in controversy threshold.

(2) The applicable amount in controversy requirement is not satisfied if the result of a favorable appeal decreases program reimbursement for the provider(s) in the cost reporting year(s) at issue in the appeal.

(3) Any effects that a favorable appeal might have on program reimbursement for the provider(s) in cost reporting period(s) not at issue in the appeal have no bearing on whether the amount in controversy requirement is satisfied for the cost year(s) at issue in the appeal.

(4) When a provider (or group of providers) has requested a hearing before a contractor under ยง 405.1811 of this subpart, and the amount in controversy is subsequently determined to be at least $10,000 (for example, due to a reassessment of the amount in controversy by the contractor hearing office or due to adding an issue), the appeal is transferred to the Board. The Board is not bound by any jurisdictional finding of the contractor hearing officer(s).

(5) When a provider or group of providers has requested a hearing before the Board under ยง 405.1835 or ยง 405.1837 of this subpart, and the amount in controversy changes to an amount less than the minimum for a Board appeal due to-

(A) The settlement or partial settlement of an issue, transfer of an issue to a group appeal, or the abandonment of an issue in an individual appeal, the change in the amount in controversy does not deprive the Board of jurisdiction.

(B) A more accurate assessment of the amount in controversy, the Board does not retain jurisdiction.
