
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1840 Board jurisdiction.
####### General rules.

(a)(1) After a request for a Board hearing is filed under § 405.1835 or § 405.1837 of this part, the Board must determine in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, whether or not it has jurisdiction to grant a hearing on each of the specific matters at issue in the hearing request.

(2) The Board must make a preliminary determination of the scope of its jurisdiction (that is, whether the request for hearing was timely, and whether the amount in controversy requirement has been met), if any, over the matters at issue in the appeal before conducting any of the following proceedings:

(i) Determining its authority to decide a legal question relevant to a matter at issue (as described in § 405.1842 of this subpart).

(ii) Permitting discovery (as described in § 405.1853 of this subpart).

(iii) Issuing a subpoena (as described in § 405.1857 of this subpart).

(iv) Conducting a hearing (as described in § 405.1845 of this subpart).

(3) The Board may revise a preliminary determination of jurisdiction at any subsequent stage of the proceedings in a Board appeal, and must promptly notify the parties of any revised determination. Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each expedited judicial review (EJR) decision (as described in § 405.1842 of this subpart) and hearing decision (as described in § 405.1871 of this subpart) by the Board must include a jurisdictional finding for each specific matter at issue in the appeal.

(4) If the Board finally determines it lacks jurisdiction over every specific matter at issue in the appeal, the Board must issue a dismissal decision under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(5) Final jurisdictional findings and dismissal decisions by the Board under paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section are subject to Administrator and judicial review in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
