
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1840 Board jurisdiction.
####### Criteria.

(b)Except with respect to the amount in controversy requirement, the jurisdiction of the Board to grant a hearing must be determined separately for each specific matter at issue in each contractor or Secretary determination for each cost reporting period under appeal. The Board has jurisdiction to grant a hearing over a specific matter at issue in an appeal only if the provider has a right to a Board hearing as a single provider appeal under ยง 405.1835 of this subpart or as part of a group appeal under ยง 405.1837 of this subpart, as applicable. Certain matters at issue are removed from jurisdiction of the Board. These matters include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:

(1) A finding in a contractor determination that expenses incurred for certain items or services furnished by a provider to an individual are not payable under title XVIII of the Act because those items or services are excluded from coverage under section 1862 of the Act and part 411 of the regulations. Review of these findings is limited to the applicable provisions of sections 1155, 1869, and 1879(d) of the Act and of subpart I of part 405 and subpart B of part 478 of the regulations, as applicable.

(2) Certain matters affecting payments to hospitals under the prospective payment system, as provided in section 1886(d)(7) of the Act and ยง 405.1804 of this subpart.
