
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1840 Board jurisdiction.
####### Board's jurisdictional findings and jurisdictional dismissal decisions.

(c)(1) In issuing an EJR decision under § 405.1842 of this subpart or a hearing decision under § 405.1871 of this subpart, as applicable, the Board must make a separate determination of whether it has jurisdiction for each specific matter at issue in each contractor or Secretary determination under appeal. A decision by the Board must include specific findings of fact and conclusions of law as to whether the Board has jurisdiction to grant a hearing on each matter at issue in the appeal.

(2) Except as provided in §§ 405.1836(e)(1) and 405.1842(f)(2)(i), where the Board determines it lacks jurisdiction to grant a hearing for every specific matter at issue in an appeal, it must issue a dismissal decision dismissing the appeal for lack of Board jurisdiction. The decision by the Board must include specific findings of fact and conclusions of law explaining the Board's determination that it lacks jurisdiction to grant a hearing on each matter at issue in the appeal. A copy of the Board's decision must be sent promptly to each party to the appeal (as described in § 405.1843).

(3) A dismissal decision by the Board under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is final and binding on the parties unless the decision is reversed, affirmed, modified or remanded by the Administrator under § 405.1875(a)(2)(ii) and § 405.1875(e) or § 405.1875(f) of this subpart, no later than 60 days after the date of receipt by the provider of the Board's decision. The Board decision is inoperative during the 60-day period for review of the decision by the Administrator, or in the event the Administrator reverses, affirms, modifies or remands that decision within that period. A final Board decision under paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section may be reopened and revised by the Board in accordance with §§ 405.1885 through 405.1889 of this subpart.
