
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1842 Expedited judicial review.
####### Board's own motion consideration.

(c)(1) If the Board makes a finding that it has jurisdiction to conduct a hearing on a specific matter at issue in accordance with ยง 405.1840(a) of this part, it may then consider on its own motion whether it lacks the authority to decide a legal question relevant to the matter at issue.

(2) The Board must initiate its own motion consideration by issuing a written notice to each of the parties to the appeal (as described in ยง 405.1843 of this subpart). The notice must-

(i) Identify each specific matter at issue for which the Board has made a finding that it has jurisdiction under ยง 405.1840(a) of this part, and for each specific matter, identify each relevant statutory provision, regulation, or CMS Ruling; and

(ii) Specify a reasonable period of time for the parties to respond in writing.

(3) After considering any written responses made by the parties to its notice of own motion consideration, the Board must determine whether it has sufficient information to issue an EJR decision for each specific matter and legal question included in the notice. If necessary, the Board may request additional information regarding its jurisdiction or authority from a party (or parties), and the Board must give any other party a reasonable opportunity to comment on any additional submission. Once the Board determines it needs no further information from the parties (or that any information has not been rendered timely), it must issue an EJR decision in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
