
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1842 Expedited judicial review.
####### Board's decision on EJR: Criteria for granting EJR.

(f)Subject to paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the Board is required to issue an EJR decision following either the completion of the Board's own motion consideration under paragraph (c) of this section, or a notice issued by the Board in accordance with paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section.

(1) The Board's decision must grant EJR for a legal question relevant to a specific matter at issue in a Board appeal if the Board determines the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The Board has jurisdiction to conduct a hearing on the specific matter at issue in accordance with ยง 405.1840 of this subpart.

(ii) The Board lacks the authority to decide a specific legal question relevant to the specific matter at issue because the legal question is a challenge either to the constitutionality of a provision of a statute, or to the substantive or procedural validity of a regulation or CMS Ruling.

(2) The Board's decision must deny EJR for a legal question relevant to a specific matter at issue in a Board appeal if any of the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The Board determines that it does not have jurisdiction to conduct a hearing on the specific matter at issue in accordance with ยง 405.1840 of this subpart.

(ii) The Board determines it has the authority to decide a specific legal question relevant to the specific matter at issue because the legal question is neither a challenge to the constitutionality of a provision of a statute, nor a challenge to the substantive or procedural validity of a regulation or CMS Ruling.

(iii) The Board does not have sufficient information to determine whether the criteria specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (f)(1)(ii) of this section are met.

(3) A copy of the Board's decision must be sent promptly to-

(i) Each party to the Board appeal (as described in ยง 405.1843 of this subpart) and

(ii) The Office of the Attorney Advisor.
