
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1842 Expedited judicial review.
####### Further review after the Board issues an EJR decision,General rules.

(g)-(1)(i) Under § 405.1875(a)(2)(iii) of this subpart, the Administrator may review, on his or her own motion, or at the request of a party, the jurisdictional component only of the Board's EJR decision.

(ii) Any review by the Administrator is limited to the question of whether there is Board jurisdiction over the specific matter at issue; the Administrator may not review the Board's determination of its authority to decide the legal question.

(iii) An EJR decision by the Board becomes final and binding on the parties unless the decision is reversed, affirmed, modified, or remanded by the Administrator under §§ 405.1875(a)(2)(iii), 405.1875(e), and 405.1875(f) of this subpart no later than 60 days after the date of receipt by the provider of the Board's decision.

(iv) A Board decision is inoperative during the 60-day period for review by the Administrator, or in the event the Administrator reverses, affirms, modifies, or remands that decision within that period.

(v) Any right of the provider to obtain EJR from a Federal district court is specified at paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section (when the Board issues a timely EJR decision) and paragraph (g)(4) of this section (in the absence of a timely Board decision).

(vi) A final Board decision under paragraph (f) of this section, and a final Administrator decision made upon review of a final Board decision (as described in § 405.1875(a)(2) and (e) of this subpart) may be reopened and revised in accordance with §§ 405.1885 through 405.1889 of this subpart.
