
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1853 Board proceedings prior to any hearing; discovery.
####### Motions to compel or for protective order.

(5)(i) Each party is required to make a good faith effort to resolve or narrow any discovery dispute, regardless of whether the dispute is with another party or a nonparty.

(ii) A party may submit to the Board a motion to compel discovery that is permitted under this section or any Board order, and a party or nonparty may submit a motion for a protective order regarding any discovery request to the Board.

(iii) Any motion to compel or for protective order must include a self-sworn declaration describing the movant's efforts to resolve or narrow the discovery dispute.

(iv) A self-sworn declaration describing the movant's efforts to resolve or narrow the discovery dispute must be included with any response to a motion to compel or for protective order.

(v) The Board must decide any motion in accordance with this section and any prior discovery ruling.

(vi)(A) The Board must issue and send to each party and any affected nonparty a discovery ruling that grants or denies, in whole or in part, the motion to compel or the motion for a protective order, if applicable.

(B) The discovery ruling must-
