
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1865 Record of administrative proceedings.

(a)(1) The Board and, if applicable, the Administrator must maintain a complete record of all proceedings in each appeal.

(2) For proceedings before the Board, the administrative record consists of all evidence, documents and any other tangible materials submitted by the parties to the appeal and by any nonparty (as described in §§ 405.1853(e)(4) and 405.1857(c)(3) of this subpart), along with all Board correspondence, rulings, subpoenas, orders, and decisions.

(3) The term "record" is intended to encompass both the unappended record and any appendix to the record (as described in § 405.1865(b) of this subpart).

(4) The record includes a complete transcription of the proceedings at any oral hearing before the Board.

(5) A copy of any transcription must be made available to any party upon written request.

(b) Any evidence ruled inadmissible by the Board (as described in § 405.1855 of this subpart) and any other submitted matter that the Board declines to consider (whether as untimely or otherwise) must be, to the extent practicable, clearly identified and segregated in an appendix to the record for purposes of any further review (as described in §§ 405.1875 and 405.1877 of this subpart).

(c) To the extent applicable, the administrative record also includes all documents (including written submissions) and any other tangible materials submitted to the Administrator by the parties to the appeal or by any nonparty (as described in §§ 405.1853(e)(4) and 405.1857(c)(3) of this subpart), in addition to all correspondence from the Administrator or the Office of the Attorney Advisor, and all rulings, orders, and decisions by the Administrator. The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section also pertain to any proceedings before the Administrator, to the extent the Administrator finds evidence inadmissible or declines to consider a specific matter (whether as untimely or otherwise).
