
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1875 Administrator review.
####### Illustrative list of criteria for deciding whether to review.

(b)In deciding whether to review a Board decision or other matter specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, either on his or her own motion or in response to a request for review, the Administrator considers criteria such as whether it appears that-

(1) The Board made an erroneous interpretation of law, regulation, CMS Ruling, or other interpretive rules, general statements of policy, or rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice established by CMS.

(2) A Board hearing decision meets the requirements of § 405.1871(a) of this subpart.

(3) The Board erred in refusing to admit certain evidence or in not considering other submitted matter (as described in §§ 405.1855 and 405.1865(b) of this subpart), or in admitting certain evidence.

(4) The case presents a significant policy issue having a basis in law and regulations, and review is likely to lead to the issuance of a CMS Ruling or other directive needed to clarify a statutory or regulatory provision.

(5) The Board has incorrectly found, assumed, or denied jurisdiction over a specific matter at issue or extended its authority in a manner not provided for by statute, regulation, CMS Ruling, or other interpretive rules, general statements of policy, and rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice established by CMS.

(6) The decision or other action of the Board requires clarification, amplification, or an alternative legal basis.

(7) A remand to the Board may be necessary or appropriate under the criteria prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section.
