
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1875 Administrator review.
####### Administrator's decision.

(e)(1) Upon completion of any review, the Administrator may render a written decision that-

(i) For purposes of review of a Board decision specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, affirms, reverses, or modifies the Board's decision, or vacates that decision and remands the case to the Board for further proceedings in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section; or

(ii) For purposes of review of a matter described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, affirms, reverses, modifies, or remands the Board's discovery or disclosure ruling, or subpoena, as applicable, and remands the case to the Board for further proceedings in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) The date of rendering of any decision by the Administrator must be no later than 60 days after the date of receipt by the provider of the Board's decision or other reviewable action. The Administrator must promptly send a copy of his or her decision to the Board, to each party to the appeal, to CMS, and, if applicable, to any other affected nonparty.

(3) Any decision by the Administrator may rely on-

(i) Applicable provisions of the law, regulations, CMS Rulings, and other interpretive rules, general statements of policy, and rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice established by CMS.

(ii) Prior decisions of the Board, the Administrator, and the courts, and any other law that the Administrator finds applicable, whether or not cited in materials submitted to the Administrator.

(iii) The administrative record for the case (as described in § 405.1865 of this subpart).

(iv) Generally known facts that are not subject to reasonable dispute.

(4) A timely decision by the Administrator that affirms, reverses, or modifies one of the Board decisions specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is final and binding on each party to the Board appeal (as described in § 405.1877(a)(4) of this subpart).

(i) If the final Administrator decision follows review of a Board hearing decision, the Administrator's decision is subject to the provisions of § 405.1803(d) of this subpart, unless that final decision is the subject of judicial review (as described in § 405.1877 of this subpart).

(ii) The Administrator, in accordance with §§ 405.1885 through 405.1889 of this subpart, may reopen and revise a final Administrator decision.

(iii) A decision by the Administrator remanding a matter to the Board for further proceedings in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section is not a final decision for purposes of judicial review (as described in § 405.1877(a)(4) of this subpart) or the provisions of § 405.1803(d).
