
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### ยง 405.1875 Administrator review.
####### Remand.

(f)(1) A remand to the Board by the Administrator has the effect for purposes of review-

(i) With respect to a Board decision specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, vacating the Board's decision and requiring further proceedings in accordance with the Administrator's decision and this subpart; or

(ii) With respect to a matter described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, affirming, reversing, modifying, or remanding the Board's remand order, discovery ruling, or subpoena, as applicable, and returning the case to the Board for further proceedings in accordance with the Administrator's decision and this subpart.

(2) The Administrator may direct the Board to take further action for the development of additional facts or new issues, or to consider the applicability of laws or regulations other than those considered by the Board. The following are not acceptable bases for remand:

(i) Presentation of evidence existing at the time of the Board hearing that was known or reasonably may be known.

(ii) Introduction of a favorable court ruling, regardless of whether the ruling was made or was available at the time of the Board hearing or at the time the Board issued its decision.

(iii) Change in a party's representation, regardless when made.

(iv) Presentation of an alternative legal basis concerning an issue in dispute.

(v) Attempted retraction of a waiver of a right, regardless when made.

(3) After remand, the Board must take the actions required in the Administrator's remand order and issue a new decision in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, or issue under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section an initial decision or a further remand order, discovery ruling, or subpoena ruling, as applicable.

(4) Administrator review of any decision or other action by the Board after remand is, to the extent applicable, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section.

(5) In addition to ordering a remand to the Board, the Administrator may order a remand to any component of HHS or CMS or to a contractor under appropriate circumstances, including, but not limited to, for the purpose of effectuating a court order (as described in ยง 405.1877(g)(2) of this subpart). When the contractor's denial of the relief, that the provider sought before the Board and that is under review by the Administrator, was based on procedural grounds (such as the alleged failure of the provider to satisfy a time limit) or was based on the alleged failure to supply adequate documentation to support the provider's claim, and the Administrator rules that the basis of the contractor's denial is invalid, the Administrator remands to the contractor for the contractor to make a determination on the merits of the provider's claim.
