
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1877 Judicial review.
####### Basis and scope.

(a)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 704 or any other provision of law, sections 205(h) and 1872 of the Act provide that a decision or other action by a reviewing entity is subject to judicial review solely to the extent authorized by section 1878(f)(1) of the Act. This section, along with the EJR provisions of § 405.1842 of this subpart, implements section 1878(f)(1) of the Act.

(2) Section 1878(f)(1) of the Act provides that a provider has a right to obtain judicial review of a final decision of the Board, or of a timely reversal, affirmation, or modification by the Administrator of a final Board decision, by filing a civil action in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in a Federal district court with venue no later than 60 days after the date of receipt by the provider of a final Board decision or a reversal, affirmation, or modification by the Administrator. The Secretary (and not the Administrator or CMS itself, or the contractor) is the only proper defendant in a civil action brought under section 1878(f)(1) of the Act.

(3) A Board decision is final and subject to judicial review under section 1878(f)(1) of the Act only if the decision-

(i) Is one of the Board decisions specified in § 405.1875(a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this subpart or, in a particular case, is deemed to be final by the Administrator under § 405.1875(a)(2)(iv) of this subpart; and

(ii) Is not reversed, affirmed, modified, or remanded by the Administrator under §§ 405.1875(e) and 405.1875(f) of this subpart within 60 days of the date of receipt by the provider of the Board's decision. A provider is not required to seek Administrator review under § 405.1875(c) first in order to seek judicial review of a Board decision that is final and subject to judicial review under section 1878(f)(1) of the Act.

(4) If the Administrator timely reverses, affirms, or modifies one of the Board decisions specified in § 405.1875(a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this subpart or deemed to be final by the Administrator in a particular case under § 405.1875(a)(2)(iv) of this subpart, the Administrator's reversal, affirmation, or modification is the only decision subject to judicial review under section 1878(f)(1) of the Act. A remand of a Board decision by the Administrator to the Board vacates the decision. Neither the Board's decision nor the Administrator's remand is a final decision subject to judicial review under section 1878(f)(1) of the Act (as described in § 405.1875(e)(4), § 405.1875(f)(1), and § 405.1875(f)(4) of this subpart).
