
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart R - Provider Reimbursement Determinations and Appeals
###### § 405.1885 Reopening a contractor determination or reviewing entity decision.
####### General.

(a)(1) A Secretary determination, a contractor determination, or a decision by a reviewing entity (as described in § 405.1801(a)) may be reopened, with respect to specific findings on matters at issue in a determination or decision, by CMS (with respect to Secretary determinations), by the contractor (with respect to contractor determinations), or by the reviewing entity that made the decision (as described in paragraph (c) of this section).

(i) A specific finding on a matter at issue may be legal or factual in nature or a mixed matter of both law and fact.

(ii) A specific finding on a matter at issue may include a factual matter that arose in or was determined for the same cost reporting period as the period at issue in an appeal filed, or a reopening requested by a provider or initiated by a contractor, under this subpart.

(iii) A specific finding on a matter at issue may include a predicate fact, which is a finding of fact based on a factual matter that first arose in or was first determined for a cost reporting period that predates the period at issue (in an appeal filed, or a reopening requested by a provider or initiated by a contractor, under this subpart), and once determined, was used to determine an aspect of the provider's reimbursement for one or more later cost reporting periods.

(iv) Except as provided for by this section, § 405.1887, and § 405.1889, a specific finding on a matter at issue may not be reopened and, if reopened, revised.

(2) A determination or decision may be reopened either through own motion of CMS (for Secretary determinations), the contractor or reviewing entity, by notifying the parties to the determination or decision (as specified in § 405.1887), or by granting the request of the provider affected by the determination or decision.

(3) A contractor's discretion to reopen or not reopen a matter is subject to a contrary directive from CMS to reopen or not reopen that matter.

(4) If CMS directs a contractor to reopen a matter, reopening is considered an own motion reopening by the contractor. A reopening may result in a revision of any matter at issue in the determination or decision.

(5) If a matter is reopened and a revised determination or decision is made, a revised determination or decision is appealable to the extent provided in § 405.1889 of this subpart.

(6) A determination or decision to reopen or not to reopen a determination or decision is not a final determination or decision within the meaning of this subpart and is not subject to further administrative review or judicial review.
