
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart U - Conditions for Coverage of Suppliers of End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Services
###### ยง 405.2112 ESRD network organizations.

CMS will designate an administrative governing body (network organization) for each network. The functions of a network organization include but are not limited to the following:

(a) Developing network goals for placing patients in settings for self-care and transplantation.

(b) Encouraging the use of medically appropriate treatment settings most compatible with patient rehabilitation and the participation of patients, providers of services, and renal disease facilities in vocational rehabilitation programs.

(c) Developing criteria and standards relating to the quality and appropriateness of patient care and, with respect to working with patients, facilities, and providers of services, for encouraging participation in vocational rehabilitation programs.

(d) Evaluating the procedures used by facilities in the network in assessing patients for placement in appropriate treatment modalities.

(e) Making recommendations to member facilities as needed to achieve network goals.

(f) On or before July 1 of each year, submitting to CMS an annual report that contains the following information:

(1) A statement of the network goals.

(2) The comparative performance of facilities regarding the placement of patients in appropriate settings for-

(i) Self-care;

(ii) Transplants; and

(iii) Vocational rehabilitation programs.

(3) Identification of those facilities that consistently fail to cooperate with the goals specified under paragraph (f)(1) of this section or to follow the recommendations of the medical review board.

(4) Identification of facilities and providers that are not providing appropriate medical care.

(5) Recommendations with respect to the need for additional or alternative services in the network including self-dialysis training, transplantation and organ procurement.

(g) Evaluating and resolving patient grievances.

(h) Appointing a network council and a medical review board (each including at least one patient representative) and supporting and coordinating the activities of each.

(i) Conducting on-site reviews of facilities and providers as necessary, as determined by the medical review board or CMS, using standards of care as specified under paragraph (c) of this section.

(j) Collecting, validating, and analyzing such data as necessary to prepare the reports required under paragraph (f) of this section and the Secretary's report to Congress on the ESRD program and to assure the maintenance of the registry established under section 1881(c)(7) of the Act.
