
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart X - Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
###### Payment for Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
####### ยง 405.2462 Payment for RHC and FQHC services.
######## Payment to provider-based RHCs that are authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system.

(c)(1) An RHC that is authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system is paid in accordance with parts 405 and 413 of this subchapter, as applicable, if the RHC is-

(i) An integral and subordinate part of a hospital, skilled nursing facility or home health agency participating in Medicare (that is, a provider of services); and

(ii) Operated with other departments of the provider under common licensure, governance and professional supervision.

(2) An RHC, described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, is paid on the basis of an all-inclusive rate, subject to a payment limit per visit, described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, for each beneficiary visit for covered services when in a hospital with greater than 50 beds as determined in ยง 412.105(b) of this subchapter. This all-inclusive rate is determined by the MAC, in accordance with this subpart and general instructions issued by CMS. The amount payable by the MAC for a visit is determined in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.

(3) Prior to April 1, 2021, an RHC, described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, is paid on the basis of an all-inclusive rate and is not subject to a payment limit per visit described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each beneficiary visit for covered services when in a hospital with less than 50 beds as determined in ยง 412.105(b) of this subchapter. This all-inclusive rate is determined by the MAC, in accordance with this subpart and general instructions issued by CMS. The amount payable by the MAC for a visit is determined in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.

(4) On or after April 1, 2021, an RHC, described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, is paid on the basis of an all-inclusive rate, subject to a payment limit per visit, described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for each beneficiary visit for covered services when it meets the specified qualifications in paragraph(d) of this section. This all-inclusive rate is determined by the MAC, in accordance with this subpart and general instructions issued by CMS. The amount payable by the MAC for a visit is determined in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.
