
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart X - Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
###### Payment for Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
####### ยง 405.2462 Payment for RHC and FQHC services.
######## et seq.

(4) The payment rate is adjusted annually by the IHS under the authority of sections 321(a) and 322(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 248 and 249(b)), Pub. L. 83-568 (42 U.S.C. 2001(a)), and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1601).

(g)(1) Except for preventive services for which Medicare pays 100 percent under ยง 410.152(l) of this chapter, Medicare pays-

(i) Eighty (80) percent of the lesser of the FQHC's actual charge or the PPS encounter rate for FQHCs authorized to bill under the PPS; or

(ii) Eighty (80) percent of the lesser of a grandfathered tribal FQHC's actual charge, or the outpatient rate for Medicare as set annually by the IHS for grandfathered tribal FQHCs that are authorized to bill at this rate.

(2) No deductible is applicable to FQHC services.

(h) For RHCs visits, payment is made in accordance with one of the following:

(1) If the deductible has been fully met by the beneficiary prior to the RHC visit, Medicare pays 80 percent of the all-inclusive rate.

(2) If the deductible has not been fully met by the beneficiary before the visit, and the amount of the RHC's reasonable customary charge for the services that is applied to the deductible is less than the all-inclusive rate, the amount applied to the deductible is subtracted from the all-inclusive rate and 80 percent of the remainder, if any, is paid to the RHC.

(3) If the deductible has not been fully met by the beneficiary before the visit, and the amount of the RHC's reasonable customary charge for the services that is applied to the deductible is equal to or exceeds the all-inclusive rate, no payment is made to the RHC.

(i) To receive payment, the RHC or FQHC must do all of the following:

(1) Furnish services in accordance with the requirements of subpart X of part 405 of this chapter and subpart A of part 491 of this chapter.

(2) File a request for payment on the form and manner prescribed by CMS.
