
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart X - Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
###### Payment for Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
####### ยง 405.2466 Annual reconciliation.
######## Calculation of reconciliation for RHCs or FQHCs that are authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system.

(b)(1) The total reimbursement amount due the RHC or FQHC for covered services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is based on the report specified in ยง 405.2470(c)(2) and is calculated by the MAC as follows:

(i) The average cost per visit is calculated by dividing the total allowable cost incurred for the reporting period by total visits for RHC or FQHC services furnished during the period. The average cost per visit is subject to tests of reasonableness which may be established in accordance with this subpart.

(ii) The total cost of RHC or FQHC services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is calculated by multiplying the average cost per visit by the number of visits for covered RHC or FQHC services by beneficiaries.

(iii) The total payment due the RHC is 80 percent of the amount calculated by subtracting the amount of deductible incurred by beneficiaries that is attributable to RHC services from the cost of these services. FQHC services are not subject to a deductible and the payment computation for FQHCs does not include a reduction related to the deductible.

(iv) For RHCs and FQHCs, payment for pneumococcal, influenza, and COVID-19 vaccine and their administration is 100 percent of Medicare reasonable cost.

(2) The total reimbursement amount due is compared with total payments made to the RHC or FQHC for the reporting period, and the difference constitutes the amount of the reconciliation.
