
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart X - Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
###### Payment for Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
####### ยง 405.2468 Allowable costs.
######## Screening guidelines.

(d)(1) Costs in excess of amounts established by the guidelines are not included unless the RHC or FQHC that is authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system provides reasonable justification satisfactory to the MAC.

(2) Screening guidelines are used to assess the costs of services, including the following:

(i) Compensation for the professional and supervisory services of physicians and for the services of physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and nurse-midwives.

(ii) Services of physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurse-midwives, visiting nurses, qualified clinical psychologists, and clinical social workers.

(iii) The level of administrative and general expenses.

(iv) Staffing (for example, the ratio of other RHC or FQHC personnel to physicians, physician assistants, and nurse practitioners).

(v) The reasonableness of payments for services purchased by the RHC or FQHC, subject to the limitation that the costs of physician services purchased by the RHC or FQHC may not exceed amounts determined under the applicable provisions of subpart E of part 405 or part 415 of this chapter.
