
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart X - Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
###### Payment for Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
####### § 405.2468 Allowable costs.
######## Graduate medical education.

(f)(1) Effective for portions of cost reporting periods occurring on or after January 1, 1999, if an RHC or an FQHC incurs "all or substantially all" of the costs for the training program in the nonhospital setting as defined in § 413.75(b) of this chapter, the RHC or FQHC may receive direct graduate medical education payment for those residents. However, in connection with cost reporting periods for which "all or substantially all of the costs for the training program in the nonhospital setting" is not defined in § 413.75(b) of this chapter, if an RHC or an FQHC incurs the salaries and fringe benefits (including travel and lodging where applicable) of residents training at the RHC or FQHC, the RHC or FQHC may receive direct graduate medical education payments for those residents.

(2) Direct graduate medical education costs are not included as allowable cost under § 405.2466(b)(1)(i); and therefore, are not subject to the limit on the all-inclusive rate for allowable costs.

(3) Allowable graduate medical education costs must be reported on the RHC's or the FQHC's cost report under a separate cost center.

(4) Allowable graduate medical education costs are non-reimbursable if payment for these costs are received from a hospital or a Medicare Advantage organization.

(5) Allowable direct graduate medical education costs under paragraphs (f)(6) and (f)(7)(i) of this section, are subject to reasonable cost principles under part 413 and the reasonable compensation equivalency limits in §§ 415.60 and 415.70 of this chapter.

(6) The allowable direct graduate medical education costs are those costs incurred by the nonhospital site for the educational activities associated with patient care services of an approved program, subject to the redistribution and community support principles in § 413.85(c).

(i) The following costs are allowable direct graduate medical education costs to the extent that they are reasonable-

(A) The costs of the residents' salaries and fringe benefits (including travel and lodging expenses where applicable).

(B) The portion of teaching physicians' salaries and fringe benefits that are related to the time spent teaching and supervising residents.

(C) Facility overhead costs that are allocated to direct graduate medical education.

(ii) The following costs are not allowable graduate medical education costs-

(A) Costs associated with training, but not related to patient care services.

(B) Normal operating and capital-related costs.

(C) The marginal increase in patient care costs that the RHC or FQHC experiences as a result of having an approved program.

(D) The costs associated with activities described in § 413.85(h) of this chapter.

(7) Payment is equal to the product of-

(i) The RHC's or the FQHC's allowable direct graduate medical education costs; and

(ii) Medicare's share, which is equal to the ratio of Medicare visits to the total number of visits (as defined in § 405.2463).

(8) Direct graduate medical education payments to RHCs and FQHCs made under this section are made from the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.
