
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 405 - FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE AGED AND DISABLED
##### Subpart X - Rural Health Clinic and Federally Qualified Health Center Services
###### ยง 405.2415 Incident to services and direct supervision.

(a) Services and supplies incident to a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, certified nurse midwife, clinical psychologist, or clinical social worker service are payable under this subpart if the service or supply is all of the following:

(1) Of a type commonly furnished in physicians' offices.

(2) Of a type commonly rendered either without charge or included in the RHC's or FQHC's bill.

(3) Furnished as an incidental, although integral part of professional services furnished by a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, certified nurse-midwife, clinical psychologist, or clinical social worker.

(4) Furnished in accordance with applicable State law.

(5) Furnished under the direct supervision of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or certified nurse-midwife, except that services and supplies furnished incident to Transitional Care Management, General Care Management, and the Psychiatric Collaborative Care model can be furnished under general supervision of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or certified nurse-midwife, when these services or supplies are furnished by auxiliary personnel, as defined in ยง 410.26(a)(1) of this chapter.

(b) The direct supervision requirement is met in the case of any of the following persons only if the person is permitted to supervise these services under the written policies governing the RHC or FQHC:

(1) Nurse practitioner.

(2) Physician assistant.

(3) Certified nurse-midwife.

(4) Clinical psychologist.

(5) Clinical social worker.

(c) Only drugs and biologicals which cannot be self-administered are included within the scope of this benefit.
