
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 406 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 406.6 Application or enrollment for hospital insurance.
####### When application is deemed to be filed.

(d)(1) An application based on the transitional provisions or on ESRD is deemed to be filed in the first month of eligibility if it is filed not more than 3 months before the first month, and is retroactive to that month if filed within 12 months after the first month. An application filed more than 12 months after the first month of eligibility is retroactive to the 12th month before the month it is filed.

(2) An application for deemed entitlement to disabled widow's or widower's benefits, that is filed before the first month in which the individual meets all conditions of entitlement for this benefit, will be deemed a valid application if those conditions are met before an initial determination, reconsideration, or hearing decision is made on the application. If the conditions are met after the date of any hearing decision, a new application will have to be filed. An application validly filed within 12 months after the first month of eligibility is retroactive to that first month. If filed more than 12 months after that first month, it is retroactive to the 12th month before the month of filing.

(3) Effective June 8, 1980, an application based on eligibility for social security benefits at or after age 65, that is filed before the first month in which the individual meets all eligibility conditions for this benefit, will be deemed a valid application if those conditions are met before an initial determination, reconsideration, or hearing decision is made on the application. If the conditions are met after the date of any hearing decision, a new application will have to be filed.

(4) Effective March 1, 1981, an application under ยง 406.10 that is validly filed within 6 months after the first month of eligibility is retroactive to that first month. If filed more than 6 months after that first month, it is retroactive to the 6th month before the month of filing.
