
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 406 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENT
##### Subpart B - Hospital Insurance Without Monthly Premiums
###### ยง 406.12 Individual under age 65 who is entitled to social security or railroad retirement disability benefits.
####### When entitlement begins and ends.

(d)(1) Entitlement to hospital insurance begins with the 25th month of an individual's entitlement or deemed entitlement to disability benefits. Although an individual is not entitled to disability benefits for the month in which he or she dies, for purposes of this paragraph the individual will be deemed to be entitled for the month of death.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, entitlement to hospital insurance ends with the earliest of the following:

(i) The last day of the last month in which he or she was entitled or deemed entitled to disability benefits or was qualified as a disabled railroad retirement beneficiary, if he or she was notified of the termination of entitlement before that month.

(ii) The last day of the month following the month in which he or she is mailed a notice that his or her entitlement or deemed entitlement to disability benefits, or his or her status as a qualified disabled railroad retirement beneficiary, has ended.

(iii) The last day of the month before the month he or she attains age 65. (An individual who is entitled to social security or railroad retirement cash benefits for the month of attainment of age 65 is automatically entitled to hospital insurance under ยง 406.10.)

(iv) The day of death.
