
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 406 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENT
##### Subpart C - Premium Hospital Insurance
###### § 406.33 Determination of months to be counted for premium increase: Enrollment.
####### Enrollment before April 1, 1981 or after September 30, 1981 and before January 1, 2023.

(a)The months to be counted for premium increase are the months from the end of the initial enrollment period through the end of the general enrollment period, the special enrollment period, or the transfer enrollment period in which the individual enrolls, excluding the following:

(1) Any months before September 1973.

(2) For premiums due for months after May 1986, any months beginning with January 1983 during which the individual was enrolled in an employer group health plan based on the current employment of the individual or the individual's spouse.

(3) Any months during the SEP under § 406.24 of this subpart, during which premium hospital insurance coverage is in effect.

(4) Any months that the individual was enrolled in an HMO or CMP under part 417, subpart K of this chapter as described in § 406.21(f).

(5) For premiums due for months after December 2006, any months during which the individual met the requirements for a SEP under § 406.25(a) of this subpart.

(6) Any months during the 6-month SEP described in § 406.25(b) of this subpart during which premium hospital insurance coverage is in effect.
