
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 406 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENT
##### Subpart C - Premium Hospital Insurance
###### ยง 406.33 Determination of months to be counted for premium increase: Enrollment.
####### Examples.

(d)(1) John F's initial enrollment period ended July 1979 but he did not enroll until January 1980. The months to be counted are August 1979 through March 1980. Since only 8 months elapsed, there is no premium increase.

(2) Mary T's initial enrollment period ended in April 1980 but she did not enroll until May 1981. The months to be counted are May 1980 through May 1981. Since 13 months has elapsed, the premium would be increased by 10 percent.

(3) Effective with July 1986, Mary T, in Example 2, would no longer have to pay an increased premium because she had paid it for twice the number of full 12-month periods during which she could have been, but was not, enrolled in the program.

(4) Vincent C's initial enrollment period ended August 31, 1986. He was covered under his wife's employer group health plan until she retired on May 31, 1989. He enrolled during June 1989, the first month of the special enrollment period under ยง 406.21(e). No months are countable for premium increase purposes because the exclusions of paragraph (a) of this section apply to all months.

(5) Terry P enrolled in the 1987 general enrollment period, with coverage effective July 1987. There were 28 months after the end of his initial enrollment period through the end of the 1987 general enrollment period. His premium is increased by 10 percent. The increase will be eliminated after he has paid the additional 10 percent for 48 months.
