
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 407 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) ENROLLMENT AND ENTITLEMENT
##### Subpart B - Individual Enrollment and Entitlement for SMI
###### ยง 407.25 Beginning of entitlement: Individual enrollment.
####### Enrollment during initial enrollment period.

(a)For individuals who first meet the eligibility requirements of ยง 407.10 in a month beginning-

(1) Before January 1, 2023, the following entitlement dates apply:

(i) If an individual enrolls during the first 3 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the first month of eligibility.

(ii) If an individual enrolls during the fourth month of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the following month.

(iii) If an individual enrolls during the fifth month of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the second month after the month of enrollment.

(iv) If an individual enrolls in either of the last 2 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the third month after the month of enrollment.

(v) For example, if an individual first meets the eligibility requirements for enrollment in April, then the individual's initial enrollment period is January through July. The month in which the individual enrolls determines the month that begins the period of entitlement, as follows:

(2) On or after January 1, 2023, the following entitlement dates apply:

(i) If an individual enrolls during the first 3 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the first month of eligibility.

(ii) If an individual enrolls during the last 4 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the month following the month in which they enroll.
