
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 407 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) ENROLLMENT AND ENTITLEMENT
##### Subpart C - State Buy-In Agreements
###### ยง 407.40 Enrollment under a State buy-in agreement.
####### Statutory basis.

(a)(1) Section 1843 of the Act, as amended through 1969, permitted a State to enter into an agreement with the Secretary to enroll in the SMI program certain individuals who are eligible for SMI and who are members of the buy-in group specified in the agreement. A buy-in group could include certain individuals receiving Federally-aided State cash assistance (with the option of excluding individuals also entitled to social security benefits or railroad retirement benefits) or could include all individuals eligible for Medicaid. Before 1981, December 31, 1969 was the last day on which a State could request a buy-in agreement or a modification to include a coverage group broader than the one originally selected.

(2) Section 945(e) of the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-499) further amended section 1843 to provide that, during calendar year 1981, a State could request a buy-in agreement if it did not already have one, or request a broader coverage group for an existing agreement.

(3) Several laws enacted during 1980-1987 had the effect of requiring that the buy-in groups available under section 1843 of the Act be expanded to include certain individuals who lose eligibility for cash assistance payments but are treated as if they were cash assistance beneficiaries for Medicaid eligibility purposes.

(4) Section 301(e)(1) of the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-360) amends section 1843 of the Act to restore the 1981 provisions on a permanent basis, effective "after 1988."

(5) The same section 301, as amended by section 608(d)(14)(H) of the Family Support Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-485), further amended section 1843 of the Act, beginning January 1, 1989, to establish a new buy-in category consisting of Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries and to provide that a State may request a buy-in agreement if it does not already have one, or request a broader buy-in group for the existing agreement.

(6) Section 4501 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-508) established the Specified Low-Income Medicare Beneficiary or SLMB eligibility group effective January 1993.

(7) Section 4732 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Pub. L. 105-33) established the Qualifying Individual or QI eligibility group effective January 1998.

(8) Section 112 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-275) increased the resource standard for QMB, SLMB, and QI to 3 times the maximum resources available under the Supplemental Security Income program, adjusted annually by increases in the Consumer Price Index effective January 1, 2010.

(9) Title II, section 211, of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (Pub. L. 114-10), effective April 16, 2015, permanently extended the QI eligibility group.

(10) Title II, section 402 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260), effective January 1, 2023, expands QMB, SLMB, and QI to cover individuals who are enrolled in Medicare Part B for coverage of immunosuppressive drugs.
