
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 9 - STANDARDS OF CARE FOR CHIMPANZEES HELD IN THE FEDERALLY SUPPORTED SANCTUARY SYSTEM
##### ยง 9.2 Definitions.
###### Invasive research (studies)

utilizes those procedures that cause more than momentary pain, distress, fear, discomfort, injury, or other negative modalities to a chimpanzee. Any procedure that enters or exposes a body cavity is considered to be invasive. Sanctuary chimpanzees may not be used in invasive research. This definition excludes any invasive procedure that is a part of veterinary, medical, or surgical care that is performed by or under the direction of the Sanctuary Veterinarian using acceptable veterinary practices. Some examples of invasive studies are:

(1) Experimental exposure to a substance that may be detrimental to a chimpanzee's health (e.g., infectious disease, radiation). This does not include accidental exposures to infectious diseases transmitted from cage mates or from radiation or other exposures at the time of regularly scheduled or necessary veterinary examinations and treatments;

(2) Any invasion of a body cavity;

(3) Surgery and surgical implantation of devices that are not a part of a veterinary medical treatment or colony management purposes.

(4) Behavioral studies that cause distress or discomfort, such as induction of a fear response;

(5) Testing of any drug;

(6) Purposeful manipulation of social groups or the removal from their social group or addition of individuals in order to conduct behavioral research (for example, on aggression). Creation and refinement of social groups will be necessary when the animals arrive at the Sanctuary and this should take place only when necessary in regards to colony management and should not be driven by independently initiated research studies;

(7) Restraint unless it is in conjunction with the annual exam or clinical care; and

(8) Darting or anesthesia induction other than at annual exam or in the case of an emergency in which the chimpanzee's well-being is at stake.
