
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 408 - PREMIUMS FOR SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE
##### Subpart B - Amount of Monthly Premiums
###### ยง 408.20 Monthly premiums.
####### Statutory provisions.

(a)(1) The law established a monthly premium of $3 for the initial period of the program. It also set forth criteria and procedures for the Secretary to follow each December, beginning with December 1968, to determine and promulgate the standard monthly premium for the 12-month period beginning with July of the following year.

(2) The law was amended in 1983 to require that the Secretary promulgate the standard monthly premium in September of that year, and each year thereafter, to be effective for the 12 months beginning with the following January.

(3) The standard monthly premium applies to individuals who enroll during their initial enrollment periods. In other situations, that premium may be increased or decreased as specified in this subpart.

(4) The law was further amended in 1984 to include a temporary "hold harmless" provision (set forth in paragraph (e) of this section), that was subsequently extended and finally made permanent in 1988.

(5) The law was further amended in 2003 to ensure that amounts payable from the Transitional Assistance Account described in ยง 403.822 of this chapter shall not be taken into account in computing actuarrial rates or premium amounts.
