
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 408 - PREMIUMS FOR SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE
##### Subpart H - Supplementary Medical Insurance Premium Surcharge Agreements
###### ยง 408.202 Conditions for participation.

(a) A State or local government agency may apply to CMS to enter into an SMI premium surcharge agreement if the following conditions are met:

(1) Each individual designated for coverage under the premium surcharge agreement must be enrolled in Medicare Part B at the time the individual is added to the premium surcharge account.

(2) Each enrollee designated for coverage under the agreement must, at the time the individual is added to the premium surcharge account, be responsible for paying the base premium and surcharge through direct remittance or benefit withholding from Social Security or Railroad Retirement benefits or a Civil Service annuity.

(3) Each enrollee designated for coverage under the agreement must, at the time the individual is added to the premium surcharge account, not have premiums paid by a State Welfare Agency under a State buy-in agreement as described in ยง 407.40 of this chapter or under a group billing arrangement as described in ยง 408.80.

(b) The State or local government agency must secure from each enrollee a signed, written statement authorizing CMS to send billing notices directly to the State or local government agency, and to release to the State or local government agency information required under the SMI premium surcharge agreement.

(c) The authorization statement for each enrollee must be retained in the State or local government agency files for as long as the enrollee is covered by the agreement. These authorization statements need not be forwarded to CMS.

(d) The State or local government agency must certify to CMS, in writing, that an authorization statement is on file for each enrollee covered under the SMI premium surcharge agreement. Only one certification is necessary for the entire group of covered enrollees.

(e) A State or local government agency must establish an automated data exchange with CMS using the Third Party Premium Collection System, in order to transmit electronically an input file that will be used to add or remove enrollees from the billing system.
