
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 409 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE BENEFITS
##### Subpart E - Home Health Services Under Hospital Insurance
###### ยง 409.43 Plan of care requirements.
####### Contents.

(a)An individualized plan of care must be established and periodically reviewed by the certifying physician or allowed practitioner.

(1) The HHA must be acting upon a plan of care that meets the requirements of this section for HHA services to be covered.

(2) For HHA services to be covered, the individualized plan of care must specify the services necessary to meet the patient-specific needs identified in the comprehensive assessment.

(3)(i) The plan of care must include all of the following:

(A) The identification of the responsible discipline(s) and the frequency and duration of all visits as well as those items listed in ยง 484.60(a) of this chapter that establish the need for such services.

(B) Any provision of remote patient monitoring or other services furnished via telecommunications technology (as defined in ยง 409.46(e)) or audio-only technology. Such services must be tied to the patient-specific needs as identified in the comprehensive assessment, cannot substitute for a home visit ordered as part of the plan of care, and cannot be considered a home visit for the purposes of patient eligibility or payment.

(ii) All care provided must be in accordance with the plan of care.
