
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 409 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE BENEFITS
##### Subpart F - Scope of Hospital Insurance Benefits
###### ยง 409.63 Reduction of inpatient psychiatric benefit days available in the initial benefit period.
####### Examples:

(c)(1) The individual was an inpatient of a participating psychiatric hospital for 20 days before the first day of entitlement and remained there for another 6 months. Therefore, 130 days of benefits (150 minus 20) are payable. Payment could be made for: 60 full benefit days, 30 coinsurance days, and 40 lifetime reserve days.

(2) During the 150-day period preceding Medicare entitlement, an individual had been a patient of a general hospital for 60 days of inpatient psychiatric care and had spent 90 days in a psychiatric hospital, ending with the first day of entitlement. During the initial benefit period, the beneficiary spent 90 days in a general hospital and received psychiatric care there. The 60 days spent in the general hospital for psychiatric treatment before entitlement do not reduce the benefits available in the first benefit period. Only the 90 days spent in the psychiatric hospital before entitlement reduce such benefits, leaving a total of 60 available psychiatric days. However, after entitlement, the reduction applies not only to days spent in a psychiatric hospital, but also to days of psychiatric treatment in a general hospital. Thus, Medicare payment could be made only for 60 of the 90 days spent in the general hospital.

(3) An individual was admitted to a general hospital for a mental condition and, after 10 days, transferred to a participating psychiatric hospital. The individual remained in the psychiatric hospital for 78 days before becoming entitled to hospital insurance benefits and for 130 days after entitlement. The beneficiary was then transferred to a general hospital and received treatment of a medical condition for 20 days. The 10 days spent in the general hospital during the 150-day pre-entitlement period have no effect on the inpatient hospital benefit days available to the individual for psychiatric care in the first benefit period, even though the general hospital stay was for a mental condition. Only the 78 days spent in the psychiatric hospital during the pre-entitlement period are subtracted from the 150 benefit days. Accordingly, the individual has 72 days of psychiatric care (150 days less 78 days) available in the first benefit period. Benefits could be paid for the individual's hospitalization during the first benefit period in the following manner. For the 130-day psychiatric hospital stay, 72 days (60 full benefit days and 12 coinsurance days), and for the general hospital stay, 20 days (18 coinsurance and 2 lifetime reserve days).
