
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 409 - HOSPITAL INSURANCE BENEFITS
##### Subpart G - Hospital Insurance Deductibles and Coinsurance
###### ยง 409.83 Inpatient hospital coinsurance.
####### General provisions

(a)-(1) Inpatient hospital coinsurance is the amount chargeable to a beneficiary for each day after the first 60 days of inpatient hospital care or inpatient CAH care or both in a benefit period.

(2) For each day from the 61st to the 90th day, the coinsurance amount isof the applicable deductible.

(3) For each day from the 91st to the 150th day (lifetime reserve days), the coinsurance amount isof the applicable deductible.

(4) For coinsurance days before January 1, 1982, the coinsurance amount is based on the deductible applicable for the calendar year in which the benefit period began. The coinsurance amounts do not change during a beneficiary's benefit period even though the coinsurance days may fall in a subsequent year for which a higher deductible amount has been determined.

(5) For coinsurance days after December 31, 1981, the coinsurance amount is based on the deductible applicable for the calendar year in which the services were furnished. For example, if an individual starts a benefit period by being admitted to a hospital in 1981 and remains in the hospital long enough to use coinsurance days in 1982, the coinsurance amount charged for those days is based on the 1982 inpatient hospital deductible.
