
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.15 Annual wellness visits providing Personalized Prevention Plan Services: Conditions for and limitations on coverage.
####### Health risk assessment

means, for the purposes of this section, an evaluation tool that meets the following criteria:

(i) Collects self-reported information about the beneficiary.

(ii) Can be administered independently by the beneficiary or administered by a health professional prior to or as part of the AWV encounter.

(iii) Is appropriately tailored to and takes into account the communication needs of underserved populations, persons with limited English proficiency, and persons with health literacy needs.

(iv) Takes no more than 20 minutes to complete.

(v) Addresses, at a minimum, the following topics:

(A) Demographic data, including but not limited to age, gender, race, and ethnicity.

(B) Self assessment of health status, frailty, and physical functioning.

(C) Psychosocial risks, including but not limited to, depression/life satisfaction, stress, anger, loneliness/social isolation, pain, and fatigue.

(D) Behavioral risks, including but not limited to, tobacco use, physical activity, nutrition and oral health, alcohol consumption, sexual health, motor vehicle safety (seat belt use), and home safety.

(E) Activities of daily living (ADLs), including but not limited to, dressing, feeding, toileting, grooming, physical ambulation (including balance/risk of falls), and bathing.

(F) Instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), including but not limited to, shopping, food preparation, using the telephone, housekeeping, laundry, mode of transportation, responsibility for own medications, and ability to handle finances.
