
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.15 Annual wellness visits providing Personalized Prevention Plan Services: Conditions for and limitations on coverage.
####### Subsequent annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services

means the following services furnished to an eligible beneficiary by a health professional that include, and take into account the results of an updated health risk assessment, as those terms are defined in this section:

(i) Review (and administration, if needed) of an updated health risk assessment (as defined in this section).

(ii) An update of the individual's medical and family history.

(iii) An update of the list of current providers and suppliers that are regularly involved in providing medical care to the individual as that list was developed for the first annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services or the previous subsequent annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services.

(iv) Measurement of an individual's weight (or waist circumference), blood pressure and other routine measurements as deemed appropriate, based on the individual's medical and family history.

(v) Detection of any cognitive impairment that the individual may have, as that term is defined in this section.

(vi) An update to the following:

(A) The written screening schedule for the individual as that schedule is defined in paragraph (a) of this section for the first annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services.

(B) The list of risk factors and conditions for which primary, secondary or tertiary interventions are recommended or are underway for the individual as that list was developed at the first annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services or the previous subsequent annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services.

(vii) Furnishing of personalized health advice to the individual and a referral, as appropriate, to health education or preventive counseling services or programs as that advice and related services are defined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(viii) At the discretion of the beneficiary, furnish advance care planning services to include discussion about future care decisions that may need to be made, how the beneficiary can let others know about care preferences, and explanation of advance directives which may involve the completion of standard forms.

(ix) Furnishing of a review of any current opioid prescriptions as that term is defined in this section.

(x) Screening for potential substance use disorders including a review of the individual's potential risk factors for substance use disorder and referral for treatment as appropriate.

(xi) Any other element determined appropriate through the national coverage determination process.
