
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.16 Initial preventive physical examination: Conditions for and limitations on coverage.
####### Initial preventive physical examination

means all of the following services furnished to an eligible beneficiary by a physician or other qualified nonphysician practitioner with the goal of health promotion and disease detection:

(1) Review of the beneficiary's medical and social history with attention to modifiable risk factors for disease, as those terms are defined in this section.

(2) Review of the beneficiary's potential (risk factors) for depression, including current or past experiences with depression or other mood disorders, based on the use of an appropriate screening instrument for persons without a current diagnosis of depression, which the physician or other qualified nonphysician practitioner may select from various available standardized screening tests designed for this purpose and recognized by national professional medical organizations.

(3) Review of the beneficiary's functional ability, and level of safety as those terms are defined in this section, as described in paragraph (4) of this definition, based on the use of appropriate screening questions or a screening questionnaire, which the physician or other qualified nonphysician practitioner may select from various available screening questions or standardized questionnaires designed for this purpose and recognized by national professional medical organizations.

(4) An examination to include measurement of the beneficiary's height, weight, body mass index, blood pressure, a visual acuity screen, and other factors as deemed appropriate, based on the beneficiary's medical and social history, and current clinical standards.

(5) End-of-life planning as that term is defined in this section upon agreement with the individual.

(6) A review of any current opioid prescriptions as defined in this section.

(7) Screening for potential substance use disorders to include a review of the individual's potential risk factors for substance use disorder and referral for treatment as appropriate.

(8) Education, counseling, and referral, as deemed appropriate by the physician or qualified nonphysician practitioner, based on the results of the review and evaluation services described in this section.

(9) Education, counseling, and referral, including a brief written plan such as a checklist provided to the individual for obtaining an electrocardiogram, as appropriate, and the appropriate screening and other preventive services that are covered as separate Medicare Part B benefits as described in sections 1861(s)(10), (jj), (nn), (oo), (pp), (qq)(1), (rr), (uu), (vv), (xx)(1), (yy), (bbb), and (ddd) of the Act.
