
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 9 - STANDARDS OF CARE FOR CHIMPANZEES HELD IN THE FEDERALLY SUPPORTED SANCTUARY SYSTEM
##### ยง 9.6 Animal care, well-being, husbandry, veterinary care, and euthanasia.
###### What are the requirements for an adequate veterinary care and animal health program?,Guide,http://www.aclam.org.

(c)The sanctuary staff must provide sufficient resources of personnel, equipment, supplies, and facilities to enable the provision of adequate veterinary care as set forth in the(incorporated by reference, see paragraph (b) of ยง 9.4). For additional guidance see the American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine document, "The Provision of Adequate Veterinary Care," available on the Internet at

(1) If the sanctuary houses chimpanzees with infectious diseases, it must have a veterinarian knowledgeable in the infectious diseases and care of chimpanzees. The Facility Veterinarian is responsible for establishing and implementing a health monitoring system specifically designed to meet the health requirements of chimpanzees in the sanctuary. Routine observation and the prevention of disease, metabolic conditions, abnormal behavior and injury must be a priority focus of the Facility Veterinarian and staff.

(2) Newly received chimpanzees must be quarantined for a period for physiological, psychological, and nutritional stabilization before their introduction to the rest of the group. The stabilization period must be lengthened appropriately if the chimpanzee has a significant medical problem or if abnormal medical findings are detected during the quarantine period. If the chimpanzee has not been given a complete physical examination within six months, an examination must be conducted during the stabilization period.

(3) The sanctuary must implement appropriate methods for disease surveillance and diagnosis of diseases, which may include the following:

(4) Tuberculin (TB) tests must be negative for two (2) consecutive tests before the chimpanzee is released from quarantine. Any chimpanzee that is suspected of harboring the TB organism, or that is diagnosed with TB will be isolated and treated until determined by the Facility Veterinarian to be of no health risk to other chimpanzees or humans. The Facility Veterinarian may recommend euthanasia in those cases that do not respond to therapy and in which the chimpanzee consequently experiences undue pain and suffering that cannot be alleviated. The procedures noted under ยง 9.6 (d) must be observed if euthanasia is necessary.

(5) Fecal samples must be checked for parasites and parasitic ova.

(6) A complete blood count and serum chemical panel must be obtained.

(7) Additional serum for banking and/or testing shall be obtained as appropriate by the Facility Veterinarian and is considered beneficial for chimpanzee health.

(8) If the donating facility did not test for the appropriate viruses, the sanctuary must perform a viral panel and serology for the various chronic hepatitis viruses and HIV.

(9) Additional tests or procedures that are deemed beneficial to the chimpanzees' health may be required by the Facility Veterinarian.

(10) Chimpanzees are susceptible to many of the vaccine preventable diseases of human childhood. Appropriate vaccines must be considered and administered if deemed necessary, at the discretion of the Facility Veterinarian, to protect the chimpanzees in the sanctuary. Methods of disease prevention, diagnosis, and therapy must comply with those currently accepted in veterinary medical practice. Arrangements with diagnostic laboratories must be established before chimpanzees arrive at the sanctuary.

(11) The sanctuary must minimize the use of physical and chemical restraint. Chimpanzees in the sanctuary shall be trained to permit certain procedures with minimal or no restraint. Such procedures may include injections, dosing or other treatments, and cage-side health observations. However, chemical sedation sometimes may be appropriate for certain necessary medical interventions or for the safety of the chimpanzee and caregivers. If physical restraint measures are necessary, due consideration must be given to the temporary or permanent effects upon the chimpanzee and human and animal safety concerns.

(12) Methods used to relieve pain must be documented in the chimpanzee medical or surgical records. These records will be available for review by USDA and NIH representatives. The Facility Veterinarian must ensure that pain management is current and in accordance with acceptable veterinary medical practices.

(13) Chimpanzees must be cared for by qualified personnel on a daily basis, including weekends and holidays, to safeguard their well-being. Emergency veterinary care must also be available during these times. Notification procedures must be documented in the form of operating procedures.
