
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter I - Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 9 - STANDARDS OF CARE FOR CHIMPANZEES HELD IN THE FEDERALLY SUPPORTED SANCTUARY SYSTEM
##### ยง 9.6 Animal care, well-being, husbandry, veterinary care, and euthanasia.
###### Under what circumstances is euthanasia permitted?

(d)As stated in section 481C(d)(2)(I) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by section 2 of the CHIMP Act, none of the chimpanzees may be subjected to euthanasia except when it is in the best interest of the chimpanzee involved as determined by the SCCC and the Facility Veterinarian. Therefore, euthanasia for medical or humane reasons is permitted. Euthanasia may be permitted for reasons of health or quality of life of the individual chimpanzee, including for disease, in connection with trauma, complications of aging, or for other humane reasons. The sanctuary must establish a policy on euthanasia that will provide conditions that must be met before euthanasia is permitted and guidance for performing euthanasia.

(1) Methods of euthanasia will be consistent with the most recent report of the American Veterinary Medical Association Panel on Euthanasia (2002), unless more reliable data becomes available. When euthanasia is performed, the veterinarian will determine the appropriate agent, and it will be administered only by properly trained personnel under the direction of the Facility Veterinarian. The decision to perform euthanasia will be made by the veterinarian in consultation with the Facility Director or Deputy Director.

(2) The SCCC will participate in the decision in nonmedical emergencies. All euthanasia decisions must be reviewed by the SCCC, preferably prior to euthanasia. In emergencies, where euthanasia has to be performed immediately by the Facility Veterinarian, the circumstances and the decision by the Facility Veterinarian will be presented at the next scheduled or special meeting of the SCCC. The ORIP/DPCPSI Project Officer must be notified of the euthanasia event within 72 hours by electronic or telephonic means. Euthanasia of individual chimpanzees may negatively affect the care staff and appropriate counseling and psychological support shall be considered.
