
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.26 Services and supplies incident to a physician's professional services: Conditions.
####### Services and supplies

(8)means any services or supplies (including drugs or biologicals that are not usually self-administered) that are included in section 1861(s)(2)(A) of the Act and are not specifically listed in the Act as a separate benefit included in the Medicare program.

(b) Medicare Part B pays for services and supplies incident to the service of a physician (or other practitioner).

(1) Services and supplies must be furnished in a noninstitutional setting to noninstitutional patients.

(2) Services and supplies must be an integral, though incidental, part of the service of a physician (or other practitioner) in the course of diagnosis or treatment of an injury or illness.

(3) Services and supplies must be commonly furnished without charge or included in the bill of a physician (or other practitioner).

(4) Services and supplies must be of a type that are commonly furnished in the office or clinic of a physician (or other practitioner).

(5) In general, services and supplies must be furnished under the direct supervision of the physician (or other practitioner). Designated care management services can be furnished under general supervision of the physician (or other practitioner) when these services or supplies are provided incident to the services of a physician (or other practitioner). Behavioral health services can be furnished under general supervision of the physician (or other practitioner) when these services or supplies are provided by auxiliary personnel incident to the services of a physician (or other practitioner). The physician (or other practitioner) supervising the auxiliary personnel need not be the same physician (or other practitioner) who is treating the patient more broadly. However, only the supervising physician (or other practitioner) may bill Medicare for incident to services.

(6) Services and supplies must be furnished by the physician, practitioner with an incident to benefit, or auxiliary personnel.

(7) Services and supplies must be furnished in accordance with applicable State law.

(8) A physician (or other practitioner) may be an employee or an independent contractor.

(9) Claims for drugs payable administered by a physician as defined in section 1861(r) of the Social Security Act to refill an implanted item of DME may only be paid under Part B to the physician as a drug incident to a physician's service under section 1861(s)(2)(A). These drugs are not payable to a pharmacy/supplier as DME under section 1861(s)(6) of the Act.
