
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### § 410.27 Therapeutic outpatient hospital or CAH services and supplies incident to a physician's or nonphysician practitioner's service: Conditions.
####### 2

() Personal supervision means the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be in attendance in the room during the performance of the procedure.

(C) Nonphysician practitioners may provide the required supervision of services that they may personally furnish in accordance with State law and all additional requirements, including those specified in §§ 410.71, 410.73, 410.74, 410.75, 410.76, and 410.77; and

(v) In accordance with applicable State law.

(2) In the case of partial hospitalization services, also meet the conditions of paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) Drugs and biologicals are also subject to the limitations specified in § 410.129.

(c) Rules on emergency services furnished to outpatients by nonparticipating hospitals are specified in subpart G of Part 424 of this chapter.

(d) Rules on emergency services furnished to outpatients in a foreign country are specified in subpart H of Part 424 of this chapter.

(e) Medicare Part B pays for partial hospitalization services if they are-

(1) Prescribed by a physician who certifies and recertifies the need for the services in accordance with subpart B of part 424 of this chapter; and

(2) Furnished under a plan of treatment as required under subpart B of part 424 of this chapter.

(f) Services furnished by an entity other than the hospital are subject to the limitations specified in § 410.42(a).

(g) For purposes of this section, "nonphysician practitioner'" means a clinical psychologist, licensed clinical social worker, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or certified nurse-midwife.
