
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.28 Hospital or CAH diagnostic services furnished to outpatients: Conditions.

(a) Medicare Part B pays for hospital or CAH diagnostic services furnished to outpatients, including drugs and biologicals required in the performance of the services (even if those drugs or biologicals are self-administered), if those services meet the following conditions:

(1) They are furnished by or under arrangements made by a participating hospital or participating CAH, except in the case of an SNF resident as provided in ยง 411.15(p) of this chapter.

(2) They are ordinarily furnished by, or under arrangements made by, the hospital or CAH to its outpatients for the purpose of diagnostic study.

(3) They would be covered as inpatient hospital services if furnished to an inpatient.

(b) Drugs and biologicals are also subject to the limitations specified in ยง 410.29(b) and (c).

(c) Diagnostic services furnished by an entity other than the hospital or CAH are subject to the limitations specified in ยง 410.42(a).

(d) Rules on emergency services furnished to outpatients by nonparticipating hospitals are set forth in subpart G of part 424 of this chapter.

(e) Medicare Part B makes payment under section 1833(t) of the Act for diagnostic services furnished by or under arrangements made by the participating hospital only when the diagnostic services are furnished under one of the three levels of supervision (as defined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section) specified by CMS for the particular service by a physician or, to the extent that they are authorized to do so under their scope of practice and applicable State law, by a nonphysician practitioner (physician assistant, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife or certified registered nurse anesthetist).
