
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### § 410.28 Hospital or CAH diagnostic services furnished to outpatients: Conditions.
####### Direct supervision.

(2)(i) For services furnished directly or under arrangement in the hospital or in an on-campus or off-campus outpatient department of the hospital, as defined in § 413.65 of this chapter, "direct supervision" means that the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be immediately available to furnish assistance and direction throughout the performance of the procedure. It does not mean that the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be present in the room where the procedure is performed.

(ii) For services furnished under arrangement in nonhospital locations, "direct supervision" means the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be present in the office suite and immediately available to furnish assistance and direction throughout the performance of the procedure. It does not mean that the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be present in the room when the procedure is performed.

(iii) Until the later of the end of the calendar year in which the PHE as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter ends or December 31, 2021, the presence of the physician or nonphysician practitioner under paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section includes virtual presence through audio/video real-time communications technology (excluding audio-only).

(3) Personal supervision. Personal supervision means the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be in attendance in the room during the performance of the procedure.

(f) The rules for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests set forth in §§ 410.32(a) and (d)(2) through (d)(4) of this subpart are applicable to those tests when furnished in hospitals and CAHs.
