
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.32 Diagnostic x-ray tests, diagnostic laboratory tests, and other diagnostic tests: Conditions.
####### Exceptions.

(2)The following diagnostic tests payable under the physician fee schedule are excluded from the basic rule set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(i) Diagnostic mammography procedures, which are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration.

(ii) Diagnostic tests personally furnished by a qualified audiologist as defined in section 1861(ll)(3) of the Act.

(iii) Diagnostic psychological and neuropsychological testing services when-

(A) Personally furnished by a clinical psychologist or an independently practicing psychologist as defined in program instructions; or

(B) Furnished under the general supervision of a physician or clinical psychologist; or under the general supervision of a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, physician assistant, certified registered nurse anesthetist or certified nurse-midwife, to the extent they are authorized to perform the tests under their scope of practice and applicable State laws.

(iv) Diagnostic tests (as established through program instructions) personally performed by a physical therapist who is certified by the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties as a qualified electrophysiologic clinical specialist and permitted to provide the service under State law.

(v) Diagnostic tests performed by a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist authorized to perform the tests under applicable State laws.

(vi) Pathology and laboratory procedures listed in the 80000 series of the Current Procedural Terminology published by the American Medical Association.

(vii) Diagnostic tests performed by a certified nurse-midwife authorized to perform the tests under applicable State laws.

(viii) During the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, diagnostic tests performed by a physician assistant authorized to perform the tests under applicable State law.

(ix) Diagnostic tests performed by a physician assistant authorized to perform the tests under their scope of practice and applicable State laws.
