
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.32 Diagnostic x-ray tests, diagnostic laboratory tests, and other diagnostic tests: Conditions.
####### Diagnostic laboratory tests,Who may furnish services.

(d)-(1)Medicare Part B pays for covered diagnostic laboratory tests that are furnished by any of the following:

(i) A participating hospital or participating RPCH.

(ii) A nonparticipating hospital that meets the requirements for emergency outpatient services specified in subpart G of part 424 of this chapter and the laboratory requirements specified in part 493 of this chapter.

(iii) The office of the patient's attending or consulting physician if that physician is a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, podiatric medicine, dental surgery, or dental medicine.

(iv) An RHC.

(v) A laboratory, if it meets the applicable requirements for laboratories of part 493 of this chapter, including the laboratory of a nonparticipating hospital that does not meet the requirements for emergency outpatient services in subpart G of part 424 of this chapter.

(vi) An FQHC.

(vii) An SNF to its resident under ยง 411.15(p) of this chapter, either directly (in accordance with ยง 483.75(k)(1)(i) of this chapter) or under an arrangement (as defined in ยง 409.3 of this chapter) with another entity described in this paragraph.
