
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.40 Coverage of ambulance services.
####### Paramedic ALS intercept services.

(d)Paramedic ALS intercept services must meet the following requirements:

(1) Be furnished in an area that is designated as a rural area by any law or regulation of the State or that is located in a rural census tract of a metropolitan statistical area (as determined under the most recent Goldsmith Modification). (The Goldsmith Modification is a methodology to identify small towns and rural areas within large metropolitan counties that are isolated from central areas by distance or other features.)

(2) Be furnished under contract with one or more volunteer ambulance services that meet the following conditions:

(i) Are certified to furnish ambulance services as required under ยง 410.41.

(ii) Furnish services only at the BLS level.

(iii) Be prohibited by State law from billing for any service.

(3) Be furnished by a paramedic ALS intercept supplier that meets the following conditions:

(i) Is certified to furnish ALS services as required in ยง 410.41(b)(2).

(ii) Bills all the beneficiaries who receive ALS intercept services from the entity, regardless of whether or not those beneficiaries are Medicare beneficiaries.
