
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.40 Coverage of ambulance services.
####### Origin and destination requirements.

(f)Medicare covers the following ambulance transportation:

(1) From any point of origin to the nearest hospital, CAH, rural emergency hospital (REH), or SNF that is capable of furnishing the required level and type of care for the beneficiary's illness or injury. The hospital or CAH or REH must have available the type of physician or physician specialist needed to treat the beneficiary's condition.

(2) From a hospital, CAH, REH, or SNF to the beneficiary's home.

(3) From a SNF to the nearest supplier of medically necessary services not available at the SNF where the beneficiary is a resident, including the return trip.

(4) For a beneficiary who is receiving renal dialysis for treatment of ESRD, from the beneficiary's home to the nearest facility that furnishes renal dialysis, including the return trip.

(5) During a Public Health Emergency, as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, a ground ambulance transport from any point of origin to a destination that is equipped to treat the condition of the patient consistent with any applicable state or local Emergency Medical Services protocol that governs the destination location. Such destinations include, but are not limited to, alternative sites determined to be part of a hospital, critical access hospital, REH (effective January 1, 2023), or skilled nursing facility, community mental health centers, federally qualified health centers, rural health clinics, physician offices, urgent care facilities, ambulatory surgical centers, any location furnishing dialysis services outside of an ESRD facility when an ESRD facility is not available, and the beneficiary's home.
