
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.48 Kidney disease education services.
####### Standards for content of kidney disease patient education services.

(d)The content of the kidney disease patient education services includes the following:

(1) The management of comorbidities including for the purpose of delaying the need for dialysis which includes, but not limited to, the following topics:

(i) Prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease.

(ii) Prevention and treatment of diabetes.

(iii) Hypertension management.

(iv) Anemia management.

(v) Bone disease and disorders of calcium and phosphorus metabolism management.

(vi) Symptomatic neuropathy management.

(vii) Impairments in functioning and well-being.

(2) The prevention of uremic complications which includes, but not limited to, the following topics:

(i) Information on how the kidneys work and what happens when the kidneys fail.

(ii) Understanding if remaining kidney function can be protected, preventing disease progression, and realistic chances of survival.

(iii) Diet and fluid restrictions.

(iv) Medication review, including how each medication works, possible side effects and minimization of side effects, the importance of compliance, and informed decision-making if the patient decides not to take a specific drug.

(3) Therapeutic options, treatment modalities, and settings, including a discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of each treatment option and how the treatments replace the kidney, which includes, but not limited to, the following topics:

(i) Hemodialysis, both at home and in-facility.

(ii) Peritoneal dialysis (PD), including intermittent PD, continuous ambulatory PD, and continuous cycling PD, both at home and in-facility.

(iii) All dialysis access options for hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis.

(iv) Transplantation.

(4) Opportunities for beneficiaries to actively participate in the choice of therapy and be tailored to meet the needs of the individual beneficiary involved which includes, but not limited to, the following topics:

(i) Physical symptoms.

(ii) Impact on family and social life.

(iii) Exercise.

(iv) The right to refuse treatment.

(v) Impact on work and finances.

(vi) The meaning of test results.

(vii) Psychological impact.

(5) Qualified persons must develop outcomes assessments designed to measure beneficiary knowledge about chronic kidney disease and its treatment.

(i) The outcomes assessments serve to assess program effectiveness of preparing the beneficiary to make informed decisions about their healthcare options related to chronic kidney disease.

(ii) The outcomes assessments serve to assess the program's effectiveness in meeting the communication needs of underserved populations, including persons with disabilities, persons with limited English proficiency, and persons with health literacy needs.

(iii) The assessment must be administered to the beneficiary during a kidney disease education session.

(iv) The outcomes assessments must be made available to CMS upon request.
