
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.49 Cardiac rehabilitation program and intensive cardiac rehabilitation program: Conditions of coverage.
####### Standards for an intensive cardiac rehabilitation program.

(c)(1) To be approved as an intensive cardiac rehabilitation program, a program must demonstrate through peer-reviewed, published research that it has accomplished one or more of the following for its patients:

(i) Positively affected the progression of coronary heart disease.

(ii) Reduced the need for coronary bypass surgery.

(iii) Reduced the need for percutaneous coronary interventions;

(2) An intensive cardiac rehabilitation program must also demonstrate through peer-reviewed published research that it accomplished a statistically significant reduction in 5 or more of the following measures for patients from their levels before cardiac rehabilitation services to after cardiac rehabilitation services:

(i) Low density lipoprotein.

(ii) Triglycerides.

(iii) Body mass index.

(iv) Systolic blood pressure.

(v) Diastolic blood pressure.

(vi) The need for cholesterol, blood pressure, and diabetes medications.

(3) A list of approved intensive cardiac rehabilitation programs, identified through the national coverage determination process, will be posted to the CMS Web site and listed in the

(4) All prospective intensive cardiac rehabilitation sites must apply to enroll as an intensive cardiac rehabilitation program site using the designated forms as specified at ยง 424.510 of this chapter. For purposes of appealing an adverse determination concerning site approval, an intensive cardiac rehabilitation site is considered a supplier (or prospective supplier) as defined in ยง 498.2 of this chapter.
