
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.52 Home dialysis services, supplies, and equipment: Scope and conditions.

(a) Medicare Part B pays for the following services, supplies, and equipment furnished to an ESRD patient in his or her home:

(1) Purchase or rental, installation, and maintenance of all dialysis equipment necessary for home dialysis, and reconditioning of this equipment. Dialysis equipment includes, but is not limited to, artificial kidney and automated peritoneal dialysis machines, and support equipment such as blood pumps, bubble detectors, and other alarm systems.

(2) Items and supplies required for dialysis, including (but not limited to) dialyzers, syringes and needles, forceps, scissors, scales, sphygmomanometer with cuff and stethoscope, alcohol wipes, sterile drapes, and rubber gloves.

(3) Home dialysis support services furnished by an approved ESRD facility, including periodic monitoring of the patient's home adaptation, emergency visits by qualified provider or facility personnel, any of the tests specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of ยง 410.50, personnel costs associated with the installation and maintenance of dialysis equipment, testing and appropriate treatment of water, and ordering of supplies on an ongoing basis.

(4) On or after July 1, 1991, erythropoeisis-stimulating agents for use at home by a home dialysis patient and, on or after January 1, 1994, by a dialysis patient, if it has been determined, in accordance with ยง 494.90(a)(4) of this chapter, that the patient is competent to use the drug safely and effectively.

(b) Home dialysis support services specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section must be furnished in accordance with a written treatment plan that is prepared and reviewed by a team consisting of the individual's physician and other qualified professionals. (Section 494.90 of this chapter contains details on patient plans of care).
