
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.59 Outpatient occupational therapy services: Conditions.
####### Special provisions for services furnished by occupational therapists in private practice,Basic qualifications.

(c)-(1)In order to qualify under Medicare as a supplier of outpatient occupational therapy services, each individual occupational therapist in private practice must meet the following requirements:

(i) Be legally authorized (if applicable, licensed, certified, or registered) to engage in the private practice of occupational therapy by the State in which he or she practices, and practice only within the scope of his or her license, certification, or registration.

(ii) Engage in the private practice of occupational therapy on a regular basis as an individual, in one of the following practice types: a solo practice, partnership, or group practice; or as an employee of one of these.

(iii) Bill Medicare only for services furnished in his or her private practice office space, or in the patient's home. A therapist's private practice office space refers to the location(s) where the practice is operated, in the State(s) where the therapist (and practice, if applicable) is legally authorized to furnish services, during the hours that the therapist engages in practice at that location. When services are furnished in private practice office space, that space must be owned, leased, or rented by the practice and used for the exclusive purpose of operating the practice. A patient's home does not include any institution that is a hospital, an CAH, or a SNF.

(iv) Treat individuals who are patients of the practice and for whom the practice collects fees for the services furnished.
