
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.62 Outpatient speech-language pathology services: Conditions and exclusions.
####### Basic rule.

(a)Except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, Medicare Part B pays for outpatient speech-language pathology services only if they are furnished by an individual who meets the qualifications for a speech-language pathologist in ยง 484.115 of this chapter and only under the following conditions:

(1) They are furnished to a beneficiary while he or she is under the care of a physician who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy.

(2) They are furnished under a written plan of treatment that meets the requirements of ยง 410.61.

(3) They are furnished by one of the following:

(i) A provider as defined in ยง 489.2 of this chapter, or by others under arrangements with, and under the supervision of, a provider.

(ii) A speech-language pathologist in private practice as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) Incident to the service of, a physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse practitioner when those professionals may perform speech-language pathology services under State law. When a speech-language pathology service is provided incident to the services of a physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse practitioner, by anyone other than a physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse practitioner, the service and the person who furnishes the service must meet the standards and conditions that apply to speech-language pathology and speech-language pathologists, except that a license to practice speech-language pathology services in the State is not required.
