
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### § 410.67 Medicare coverage and payment of Opioid use disorder treatment services furnished by Opioid treatment programs.
####### Opioid use disorder treatment service

means one of the following items or services for the treatment of opioid use disorder that is furnished by an opioid treatment program that meets the requirements described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(i) Opioid agonist and antagonist treatment medications (including oral, injected, or implanted versions) that are approved by the Food and Drug Administration under section 505 of the Federal, Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for use in treatment of opioid use disorder.

(ii) Dispensing and administration of opioid agonist and antagonist treatment medications, if applicable.

(iii) Substance use counseling by a professional to the extent authorized under State law to furnish such services including services furnished via two-way interactive audio-video communication technology, as clinically appropriate, and in compliance with all applicable requirements. During a Public Health Emergency, as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter, or for services furnished after the end of such emergency, in cases where audio/video communication technology is not available to the beneficiary, the counseling services may be furnished using audio-only telephone calls if all other applicable requirements are met.

(iv) Individual and group therapy with a physician or psychologist (or other mental health professional to the extent authorized under State law), including services furnished via two-way interactive audio-video communication technology, as clinically appropriate, and in compliance with all applicable requirements. During a Public Health Emergency, as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter, or for services furnished after the end of such emergency, in cases where audio/video communication technology is not available to the beneficiary, the therapy services may be furnished using audio-only telephone calls if all other applicable requirements are met.

(v) Toxicology testing.

(vi) Intake activities, including initial medical examination services required under § 8.12(f)(2) of this title and initial assessment services required under § 8.12(f)(4) of this title. Services to initiate treatment with buprenorphine may be furnished via two-way interactive audio-video communication technology, as clinically appropriate, and in compliance with all applicable requirements. In cases where audio-video communications technology is not available to the beneficiary, services to initiate treatment with buprenorphine may be furnished using audio-only telephone calls if all other applicable requirements are met.

(vii) Periodic assessment services required under § 8.12(f)(4) of this title, that are furnished during a face-to-face encounter, including services furnished via two-way interactive audio-video communication technology, as clinically appropriate, and in compliance with all applicable requirements. During the Public Health Emergency, as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter, and through the end of CY 2023, in cases where a beneficiary does not have access to two-way audio-video communications technology, periodic assessments can be furnished using audio-only telephone calls if all other applicable requirements are met.

(viii) Opioid antagonist medications that are approved by the Food and Drug Administration under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose and overdose education furnished in conjunction with opioid antagonist medication.
