
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.67 Medicare coverage and payment of Opioid use disorder treatment services furnished by Opioid treatment programs.
####### Increased level of psychotherapy.

(iv)For CY 2023 and subsequent years, the payment for the non-drug component of the bundled payment for an episode of care under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is adjusted to reflect the CY 2019 Medicare physician fee schedule non-facility rate for psychotherapy, 45 minutes with patient.

(3) At least one OUD treatment service described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section must be furnished to bill for the bundled payment for an episode of care.

(4) Adjustments will be made to the bundled payment for the following:

(i) If the opioid treatment program furnishes:

(A) Counseling or therapy services in excess of the amount specified in the beneficiary's treatment plan and for which medical necessity is documented in the medical record, an adjustment will be made for each additional 30 minutes of counseling or individual therapy furnished during the episode of care.

(B) Intake activities described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, an adjustment will be made when intake activities are furnished.

(C) Periodic assessments described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, an adjustment will be made when this service is furnished.

(D) Additional take home supply of oral drugs of up to 21 days, in increments of 7 days, an adjustment will be made when oral medications are dispensed.

(E) Take-home supply of opioid antagonist medications that are approved by the Food and Drug Administration under section 505 of the Federal, Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose and overdose education furnished in conjunction with opioid antagonist medication, an adjustment will be made when these medications are dispensed. This adjustment will be limited to once every 30 days, except when a further take home supply of these medications is medically reasonable and necessary. The opioid treatment program must document in the medical record the reason(s) for the exception. The amount of the drug component of the adjustment will be determined using the methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. The amount of the non-drug component of the adjustment will be determined based on the CY 2020 Medicare payment rate for CPT code 96161.

(ii) The payment amounts for the non-drug component of the bundled payment for an episode of care, the adjustments for counseling or therapy, intake activities, periodic assessments, and the non-drug component of the adjustment for take-home supplies of opioid antagonist medications will be geographically adjusted using the Geographic Adjustment Factor described in ยง 414.26 of this subchapter. For purposes of this adjustment, OUD treatment services that are furnished via an OTP mobile unit will be treated as if they were furnished at the physical location of the OTP registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and certified by SAMHSA.

(iii) The payment amounts for the non-drug component of the bundled payment for an episode of care, the adjustments for counseling or therapy, intake activities, periodic assessments, and the non-drug component of the adjustment for take-home supplies of opioid antagonist medications will be updated annually using the Medicare Economic Index described in ยง 405.504(d) of this subchapter.

(5) Payment for medications delivered, administered or dispensed to a beneficiary as part of the bundled payment or an adjustment to the bundled payment under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section is considered a duplicative payment if a claim for delivery, administration or dispensing of the same medications for the same beneficiary on the same date of service was also separately paid under Medicare Part B or Part D. CMS will recoup the duplicative payment made to the opioid treatment program.

(6) For purposes of the adjustment to the bundled payment under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section, after the end of the Public Health Emergency as defined in ยง 400.200 of this chapter, when services are furnished using audio-only technology the practitioner must certify, in a form and manner specified by CMS, that they had the capacity to furnish the services using two-way, audio/video communication technology, but used audio-only technology because audio/video communication technology was not available to the beneficiary.
