
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.74 Physician assistants' services.
####### Basic rule.

(a)Medicare Part B covers physician assistants' services only if the following conditions are met:

(1) The services would be covered as physicians' services if furnished by a physician (a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, as set forth in section 1861(r)(1) of the Act).

(2) The physician assistant-

(i) Meets the qualifications set forth in paragraph (c) of this section;

(ii) Is legally authorized to perform the services in the State in which they are performed;

(iii) Performs services that are not otherwise precluded from coverage because of a statutory exclusion;

(iv) Performs the services in accordance with state law and state scope of practice rules for physician assistants in the state in which the physician assistant's professional services are furnished. Any state laws and scope of practice rules that describe the required practice relationship between physicians and physician assistants, including explicit supervisory or collaborative practice requirements, describe a form of supervision for purposes of section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act. For states with no explicit state law and scope of practice rules regarding physician supervision of physician assistant's services, physician supervision is a process in which a physician assistant has a working relationship with one or more physicians to supervise the delivery of their health care services. Such physician supervision is evidenced by documenting at the practice level the physician assistant's scope of practice and the working relationships the physician assistant has with the supervising physician/s when furnishing professional services.

(v) Prior to January 1, 2022, furnishes services that are billed by the employer of a physician assistant; and

(vi) Performs the services-

(A) In all settings in either rural and urban areas; or

(B) As an assistant at surgery.
