
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### ยง 410.76 Clinical nurse specialists' services.
####### Services.

(c)Medicare Part B covers clinical nurse specialists' services in all settings in both rural and urban areas only if the services would be covered if furnished by a physician and the clinical nurse specialist-

(1) Is legally authorized to perform them in the State in which they are performed;

(2) Is not performing services that are otherwise excluded from coverage by one of the statutory exclusions; and

(3) Performs them while working in collaboration with a physician.

(i) Collaboration is a process in which a clinical nurse specialist works with one or more physicians to deliver health care services within the scope of the practitioner's expertise, with medical direction and appropriate supervision as provided for in jointly developed guidelines or other mechanisms as provided by the law of the State in which the services are performed.

(ii) In the absence of State law governing collaboration, collaboration is a process in which a clinical nurse specialist has a relationship with one or more physicians to deliver health care services. Such collaboration is to be evidenced by clinical nurse specialists documenting the clinical nurse specialists' scope of practice and indicating the relationships that they have with physicians to deal with issues outside their scope of practice. Clinical nurse specialists must document this collaborative process with physicians.

(iii) The collaborating physician does not need to be present with the clinical nurse specialist when the services are furnished, or to make an independent evaluation of each patient who is seen by the clinical nurse specialist.
