
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart B - Medical and Other Health Services
###### § 410.79 Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program expanded model: Conditions of coverage.
####### MDPP expanded model emergency policy.

(e)(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the policies described in this paragraph (e) apply during the Public Health Emergency (PHE) as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter and during any future 1135 waiver event that CMS determines may disrupts in-person MDPP services (an "applicable 1135 waiver event"). For purposes of this paragraph (e), "1135 waiver event" means an emergency period and emergency area, as such terms are defined in section 1135(g) of the Act, for which the Secretary has authorized one or more waivers under section 1135 of the Act.

(2)(i) CMS determines that an 1135 waiver event may disrupt in-person MDPP services if MDPP suppliers would likely be unable to conduct classes in-person, or MDPP beneficiaries would likely be unable to attend in-person classes, for reasons related to health, safety, or site availability or suitability. Health and safety reasons may include, but are not limited to, the avoidance of transmission of contagious diseases, compliance with laws and regulations during an 1135 waiver event, or the physical safety of MDPP beneficiaries and MDPP coaches, as defined in § 424.205(a) of this chapter, during an 1135 waiver event.

(ii) If CMS determines that an 1135 waiver event may disrupt in-person MDPP services, CMS will communicate such determination for purposes of the policies described in this paragraph (e), to all affected MDPP suppliers.

(3) The following changes apply under this paragraph (e), when CMS has determined that an 1135 waiver event may disrupt in-person MDPP services:

(i) The in-person attendance requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) and (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section do not apply.

(ii) MDPP suppliers may start new cohorts during the PHE as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter or an applicable 1135 waiver event only if a baseline weight measurement can be obtained as described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section.

(iii) MDPP suppliers can obtain weight measurements for MDPP beneficiaries for the baseline weight and any weight loss based performance achievement goals in the following manner:

(A) In-person, when the weight measurement can be obtained safely and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations;

(B) Via digital technology, such as scales that transmit weights securely via wireless or cellular transmission; or

(C) Self-reported weight measurements from the at-home digital scale of the MDPP beneficiary. Self-reported weights must be obtained during live, synchronous online video technology, such as video chatting or video conferencing, wherein the MDPP coach observes the beneficiary weighing themselves and views the weight indicated on the at-home digital scale, a date-stamped photo or video recording of the beneficiary's weight with the beneficiary visible on the scale, or a recording of the beneficiary's weight, with the beneficiary visible on the scale, submitted by the MDPP beneficiary to the MDPP supplier. The photo or video must clearly document the weight of the MDPP beneficiary as it appears on his/her digital scale on the date associated with the billable MDPP session.

(iv) The virtual session limits described in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply, and MDPP suppliers may provide all MDPP sessions virtually during the PHE as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter or applicable 1135 waiver event. If the beneficiary began the MDPP services period virtually, or changed from in-person to virtual services during the PHE as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter or applicable 1135 waiver event, he/she may continue to receive the MDPP set of services virtually even after the PHE or 1135 waiver event has concluded, until the end of the beneficiary's MDPP services period, so long as the provision of virtual services complies with all of the following requirements:

(A) The curriculum furnished during the virtual session addresses the same CDC-approved DPP curriculum topic as the regularly scheduled session.

(B) The MDPP supplier furnishes to the MDPP beneficiary a maximum of one virtual make-up session on the same day as a regularly scheduled session.

(C) The MDPP supplier furnishes to the MDPP beneficiary a maximum of one virtual make-up session per week.

(D) Virtual sessions are furnished in a manner consistent with the DPRP standards for virtual sessions.

(E) The MDPP supplier offers virtual sessions only upon an individual MDPP beneficiary's request or agreement to receive services virtually.

(F) The MDPP supplier offers to an MDPP beneficiary:
