
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart H - Outpatient Diabetes Self-Management Training and Diabetes Outcome Measurements
###### ยง 410.141 Outpatient diabetes self-management training.
####### Plan of care.

(2)It is included in a comprehensive plan of care established by the physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) treating the beneficiary for diabetes that meets the following requirements:

(i) Describes the content, number of sessions, frequency, and duration of the training as written by the physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) treating the beneficiary.

(ii) Contains a statement specified by CMS and signed by the physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) managing the beneficiary's diabetic condition. By signing this statement, the physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) certifies that he or she is managing the beneficiary's diabetic condition and the training described in the plan of care is needed to ensure therapy compliance or to provide the beneficiary with the skills and knowledge to help manage the beneficiary's diabetes. The physician's (or qualified nonphysician practitioner's) statement must identify the beneficiary's specific medical conditions (described in paragraph (d) of this section) that the training will address.

(iii) Provides that any changes to the plan of care are signed by the physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) treating the beneficiary.

(iv) Is incorporated into the approved entity's medical record for the beneficiary and is made available, upon request, to CMS.
