
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart H - Outpatient Diabetes Self-Management Training and Diabetes Outcome Measurements
###### § 410.142 CMS process for approving national accreditation organizations.
####### Required information and materials.

(b)An organization requesting CMS's approval and recognition of its accreditation program must furnish to CMS the following information and materials:

(1) The requirements and quality standards that the organization uses to accredit entities to furnish training.

(2) If an organization does not use the CMS quality standards or the NSDSMEP quality standards described in § 410.144(a) or (b), a detailed comparison including a crosswalk between the organization's standards and the CMS quality standards described in § 410.144(a).

(3) Detailed information about the organization's accreditation process, including all of the following information:

(i) Frequency of accreditation.

(ii) Copies of accreditation forms, guidelines, and instructions to evaluators.

(iii) Descriptions of the following:

(A) The accreditation review process and the accreditation status decision making process.

(B) The procedures used to notify a deemed entity of deficiencies in its outpatient diabetes self-management training program and procedures to monitor the correction of those deficiencies.

(C) The procedures used to enforce compliance with the accreditation requirements and standards.

(4) Detailed information about the individuals who perform evaluations for the organization, including all of the following information:

(i) The education and experience requirements for the individuals who perform evaluations.

(ii) The content and frequency of continuing education furnished to the individuals who perform evaluations.

(iii) The process used to monitor the performance of individuals who perform evaluations.

(iv) The organization's policies and practices for participation in the accreditation process by an individual who is professionally or financially affiliated with the entity being evaluated.

(5) A description of the organization's data management and analysis system for its accreditation activities and decisions, including the kinds of reports, tables, and other displays generated by that system.

(6) A description of the organization's procedures for responding to and investigating complaints against an approved entity, including policies and procedures regarding coordination of these activities with appropriate licensing bodies, ombudsmen programs, and CMS.

(7) A description of the organization's policies and procedures for withholding or removing a certificate of accreditation for failure to meet the organization's standards or requirements, and other actions the organization takes in response to noncompliance with its standards and requirements.

(8) A description of all types (for example, full or partial) and categories (for example, provisional, conditional, or temporary) of accreditation offered by the organization, the duration of each type and category of accreditation, and a statement identifying the types and categories that will serve as a basis for accreditation if CMS approves the organization.

(9) A list of all of the approved entities currently accredited to furnish training and the type, category, and expiration date of the accreditation held by each of them.

(10) The name and address of each person with an ownership or control interest in the organization.

(11) Documentation that demonstrates its ability to furnish CMS with electronic data in CMS-compatible format.

(12) A resource analysis that demonstrates that its staffing, funding, and other resources are adequate to perform the required accreditation activities.

(13) A statement acknowledging that, as a condition for approval and recognition by CMS of its accreditation program, it agrees to comply with the requirements set forth in §§ 410.142 through 410.146.

(14) Additional information CMS requests to enable it to respond to the organization's request for CMS approval and recognition of its accreditation program to accredit entities to furnish training.
