
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart H - Outpatient Diabetes Self-Management Training and Diabetes Outcome Measurements
###### § 410.143 Requirements for approved accreditation organizations.
####### Ongoing responsibilities of an approved accreditation organization.

(a)An organization approved and recognized by CMS must undertake the following activities on an ongoing basis:

(1) Provide to CMS in writing, on a monthly basis, all of the following:

(i) Copies of all accreditation decisions and any accreditation-related information that CMS may require (including corrective action plans and summaries of unmet quality standards described in § 410.144).

(ii) Notice of all complaints related to approved entities.

(iii) Within 30 days of taking remedial or adverse action (including revocation, withdrawal, or revision of an approved entity's deemed status) against an approved entity, information describing the remedial or adverse action and the circumstances that led to taking the action.

(iv) Notice of any proposed changes in its accreditation standards and requirements or evaluation process. If an organization implements changes without CMS approval (other than changes to the NSDSMEP quality standards described in § 410.144(b)), CMS may withdraw its approval and recognition of the organization's accreditation program.

(2) If an organization does not use the NSDSMEP quality standards described in § 410.144(b), and wishes to change its quality standards that CMS previously approved, the organization must submit its plan to alter its quality standards and include a crosswalk between the set of quality standards described in § 410.144 and the organization's revised standards. If an organization implements changes in its quality standards without CMS approval, CMS may withdraw its approval and recognition of the organization's accreditation program.

(3) If CMS notifies an organization that uses the CMS quality standards described in § 410.144(a) that it has changed the CMS quality standards, the organization must meet the following requirements:

(i) Submit to CMS, within 30 days of CMS's notification of a change in the quality standards, its organization's plan to alter its quality standards to conform to the revised quality standards described in § 410.144(a).

(ii) Implement the changes to its accreditation program by the implementation date specified in CMS's notification of the changes in the quality standards.
