
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart H - Outpatient Diabetes Self-Management Training and Diabetes Outcome Measurements
###### ยง 410.144 Quality standards for deemed entities.
####### Team approach.

(4)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section for a rural area, furnishes services using a multidisciplinary instructional team that meets the following requirements:

(A) The team includes at least a registered dietitian, as recognized under State law, and a certified diabetes educator (CDE), certified by a qualified organization that has registered with CMS, who have didactic experience and knowledge of diabetes clinical and educational issues. (If the team includes a registered nurse, an approved entity may delay implementation of the requirement for a CDE until February 27, 2004.)

(B) The team is qualified to teach the training content areas required in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(C) All appropriate team members must be present during the portion of the training for which they are responsible and must directly furnish the training within the scope of their practices.

(ii) In a rural area, an individual who is qualified as a registered dietitian and as a CDE that is currently certified by an organization approved by CMS (or until February 27, 2004 an individual who is qualified as a registered dietitian and as a registered nurse) may furnish training and is deemed to meet the multidisciplinary team requirement in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) Training content. Offers training and is capable of meeting the needs of its patients on the following subjects:

(i) Diabetes overview/pathophysiology of diabetes.

(ii) Nutrition.

(iii) Exercise and activity.

(iv) Diabetes medications (including skills related to the self-administration of injectable drugs).

(v) Self-monitoring and use of the results.

(vi) Prevention, detection, and treatment of acute complications.

(vii) Prevention, detection, and treatment of chronic complications.

(viii) Foot, skin, and dental care.

(ix) Behavior change strategies, goal setting, risk factor reduction, and problem solving.

(x) Preconception care, pregnancy, and gestational diabetes.

(xi) Relationships among nutrition, exercise, medication, and blood glucose levels.

(xii) Stress and psychosocial adjustment.

(xiii) Family involvement and social support.

(xiv) Benefits, risks, and management options for improving glucose control.

(xv) Use of health care systems and community resources.
