
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart H - Outpatient Diabetes Self-Management Training and Diabetes Outcome Measurements
###### ยง 410.144 Quality standards for deemed entities.
####### Review of plan of care and goals.

(7)(i) Reviews each beneficiary's plan of care.

(ii) Develops and updates an individual assessment, in collaboration with each beneficiary, that includes relevant medical history, present health status, health service or resource utilization, risk factors, diabetes knowledge and skills, cultural influences, health beliefs and attitudes, health behaviors and goals, support systems, barriers to learning, and socioeconomic factors.

(iii) Based on the assessment, develops, in collaboration with each beneficiary, an individual education plan. Includes in the education plan, the goals for education, the periodic updates, the specific amount of interactive, collaborative, skill-based training methods and didactic training methods that have been and will be furnished.

(iv) Documents the results, including assessment, intervention, evaluation and follow-up in the beneficiary's medical record.

(v) Forwards a copy of the documentation in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) through (iv) of this section to the referring physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner).

(vi) Periodically updates the beneficiary's referring physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) about the beneficiary's educational status.

(8) Educational intervention. Offers appropriate and timely educational intervention based on referral from the beneficiary's physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner) and based on periodic reassessments of health status, knowledge, skills, attitudes, goals, and self-care behaviors.
