
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Payment of SMI Benefits
###### § 410.150 To whom payment is made.
####### Specific rules.

(b)Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, Medicare Part B pays as follows:

(1) To the individual, or to a physician or other supplier on the individual's behalf, for medical and other health services furnished by the physician or other supplier.

(2) To a nonparticipating hospital on the individual's behalf for emergency outpatient services furnished by the hospital, in accordance with subpart G of part 424 of this chapter.

(3) To the individual, for emergency outpatient services furnished by a nonparticipating hospital, in accordance with § 424.53 of this chapter.

(4) To the individual, for physicians' services and ambulance services furnished outside the United States in accordance with § 424.53 of this chapter.

(5) To a provider on the individual's behalf for medical and other health services furnished by the provider (or by others under arrangements made with them by the provider).

(6) To a home health agency on the individual's behalf for home health services furnished by the home health agency.

(7) To a clinic, rehabilitation agency, or public health agency on the individual's behalf for outpatient physical therapy or speech pathology services furnished by the clinic or agency (or by others under arrangements made with them by the clinic or agency).

(8) To a rural health clinic or Federally qualified health center on the individual's behalf for rural health clinic or Federally qualified health center services furnished by the rural health clinic or Federally qualified health center, respectively.

(9) To an ambulatory surgical center (ASC) on the individual's behalf for covered ambulatory surgical center facility services that are furnished in connection with surgical procedures performed in an ASC, as provided in part 416 of this chapter.

(10) To a comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility (CORF) on the individual's behalf for comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility services furnished by the CORF.

(11) To a renal dialysis facility, on the individual's behalf, for institutional or home dialysis services, supplies, and equipment furnished by the facility.

(12) To a critical access hospital (CAH) on the individual's behalf for outpatient CAH services furnished by the CAH.

(13) To a community mental health center (CMHC) on the individual's behalf, for partial hospitalization services furnished by the CMHC (or by others under arrangements made with them by the CMHC).

(14) To an SNF for services (other than those described in § 411.15(p)(2) of this chapter) that it furnishes to a resident (as defined in § 411.15(p)(3) of this chapter) of the SNF who is not in a covered Part A stay.

(15)(i) Prior to January 1, 2022, to the qualified employer of a physician assistant for professional services furnished by the physician assistant and for services and supplies provided incident to his or her services. Payment is made to the employer of a physician assistant regardless of whether the physician assistant furnishes services under a W-2, employer-employee employment relationship, or whether the physician assistant is an independent contractor who receives a 1099 reflecting the relationship. Both types of relationships must conform to the appropriate guidelines provided by the Internal Revenue Service. A qualified employer is not a group of physician assistants that incorporate to bill for their services. Payment is made only if no facility or other provider charges or is paid any amount for services furnished by a physician assistant.

(ii) Effective on or after January 1, 2022, payment is made to a physician assistant for professional services furnished by a physician assistant in all settings in both rural and nonrural areas and for services and supplies furnished incident to those services. Payment is made only if no facility or other provider charges, or is paid, any amount for the furnishing of professional services of the physician assistant.

(16) To a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist for professional services furnished by a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist in all settings in both rural and nonrural areas and for services and supplies furnished incident to those services. Payment is made only if no facility or other provider charges, or is paid, any amount for the furnishing of the professional services of the nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist.

(17) To a clinical psychologist on the individual's behalf for clinical psychologist services and for services and supplies furnished as an incident to his or her services.

(18) To a clinical social worker on the individual's behalf for clinical social worker services.

(19) To a participating HHA, for home health services (including medical supplies described in section 1861(m)(5) of the Act, but excluding durable medical equipment to the extent provided for in such section) furnished to an individual who at the time the item or service is furnished is under a plan of care of an HHA (without regard to whether the item or service is furnished by the HHA directly, under arrangement with the HHA, or under any other contracting or consulting arrangement).

(20) To a certified nurse-midwife for professional services furnished by the certified nurse-midwife in all settings and for services and supplies furnished incident to those services. Payment is made only if no facility or other provider charges or is paid any amount for the furnishing of the professional services of the certified nurse-midwife.
