
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Payment of SMI Benefits
###### § 410.152 Amounts of payment.
####### General provisions,Exclusion from incurred expenses.

(a)-(1)As used in this section, "incurred expenses" are expenses incurred by an individual, during his or her coverage period, for covered Part B services, excluding the following:

(i) Expenses incurred for services for which the beneficiary is entitled to have payment made under Medicare Part A or would be so entitled except for the application of the Part A deductible and coinsurance requirements.

(ii) Expenses incurred in meeting the Part B blood deductible (§ 410.161).

(iii) In the case of services payable under a formula that takes into account reasonable charges, reasonable costs, customary charges, customary (insofar as reasonable) charges, charges related to reasonable costs, fair compensation, a pre-treatment prospective payment rate, or a standard overhead amount, or any combination of two or more of these factors, expenses in excess of any factor taken into account under that formula.

(iv) Expenses in excess of the outpatient mental health treatment limitation described in § 410.155.

(v) In the case of expenses incurred for outpatient physical therapy services including speech-language pathology services, the expenses excluded are from the incurred expenses under § 410.60(e). In the case of expenses incurred for outpatient occupational therapy including speech-language pathology services, the expenses excluded are from the incurred expenses under § 410.59(e).
