
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Payment of SMI Benefits
###### § 410.152 Amounts of payment.
####### Amount of payment: Preventive vaccine administration.

(h)For the administration of the preventive vaccines described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, as furnished by providers described in §§ 409.100 and 410.150 of this subchapter, Medicare Part B pays the following amounts, except as otherwise provided under this subchapter:

(1) Effective January 1, 2022, for administration of an influenza, hepatitis B or pneumococcal vaccine, $30 per dose.

(2) Effective January 1, 2022, for administration of a COVID-19 vaccine, $40 per dose.

(3) For services furnished on or after January 1 of the year following the year in which the Secretary ends the Emergency Use Authorization for drugs and biologicals issued pursuant to section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-3), for administration of a COVID-19 vaccine, an amount equal to the amount that would be paid for the administration of a preventive vaccine described in paragraph (h)(1).

(4) The payment amount for the administration of a preventive vaccine described in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section is adjusted to reflect geographic cost variations:

(i) For services furnished before January 1, 2023, using the Geographic Practice Cost Indices (GPCIs) established for the year, as described in section 1848(e)(1) of the Act and §§ 414.2 and 414.26 of this subchapter.

(ii) For services furnished on or after January 1, 2023, using the Geographic Adjustment Factor (GAF) established for the year as described in section 1848(e)(2) of the Act and §§ 414.2 and 414.26 of this subchapter.

(5) The payment amount for administration of a preventive vaccine described in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section is updated annually using the percentage change in the Medicare Economic Index (MEI) as described in section 1842(i)(3) of the Act and § 405.504(d) of this subchapter.
