
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Payment of SMI Benefits
###### § 410.160 Part B annual deductible.
####### Exceptions.

(b)Expenses incurred for the following services are not subject to the Part B annual deductible and do not count toward meeting that deductible:

(1) Home health services.

(2) Pneumococcal, influenza, and hepatitis b, and COVID-19 vaccines and their administration.

(3) Federally qualified health center services.

(4) ASC facility services furnished before July 1987 and physician services furnished before April 1988 that met the requirements for payment of 100 percent of the reasonable charges.

(5) Screening mammography services as described in § 410.34 (c) and (d).

(6) Screening pelvic examinations as described in § 410.56.

(7) Beginning January 1, 2007, colorectal cancer screening tests as described in § 410.37.

(8) Beginning January 1, 2011, for a surgical service, and beginning January 1, 2015, for an anesthesia service, furnished in connection with, as a result of, and in the same clinical encounter as a planned colorectal cancer screening test. A surgical or anesthesia service furnished in connection with, as a result of, and in the same clinical encounter as a colorectal cancer screening test means-a surgical or anesthesia service furnished on the same date as a planned colorectal cancer screening test as described in § 410.37.

(9) Beginning January 1, 2009, initial preventive physical examinations as described in § 410.16.

(10) Bone mass measurement.

(11) Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) services.

(12) Annual Wellness Visit (AWV), providing Personalized Prevention Plan Services (PPPS).

(13) Additional preventive services identified for coverage through the national coverage determination (NCD) process.
