
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Payment of SMI Benefits
###### ยง 410.160 Part B annual deductible.
####### Special rule for services reimbursable on a formula basis.

(d)(1) In applying the formula that takes into account reasonable costs, customary charges, and customary (insofar as reasonable) charges, and is used to determine payment for services furnished by a provider that is not a nominal charge provider, the Medicare intermediary takes the following steps:

(i) Reduces the customary charges for the services by an amount equal to any unmet portion of the deductible for the calendar year, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (The amount of this reduction is considered to be the amount of the deductible that is met on the basis of the services to which it is applied.)

(ii) Determines 20 percent of any remaining portion of the customary (insofar as reasonable) charge.

(iii) Determines the lesser of the reasonable cost of the services and the customary charges for the services.

(iv) Reduces the amount determined under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section by the sum of the reduction made under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section and the amount determined under parargaph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(v) Reduces the reasonable cost of the services by the amount of the reduction made under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section and multiplies the result by 80 percent.

(2) In accordance with ยง 410.152(b)(1), the amount payable is the amount determined under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, or the amount determined under paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, whichever is less.
