
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 410 - SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE (SMI) BENEFITS
##### Subpart I - Payment of SMI Benefits
###### ยง 410.160 Part B annual deductible.
####### Examples of application of the annual deductible.

(h)(1) Mr. A submitted claims for the following expenses incurred during 1982: $20 for services furnished in March by physician X; $30 for services furnished in April by physician Y; $50 for services furnished in June by physician Z, for a total of $100. The carrier determined that the charges as submitted were the reasonable charges. The first $75 of expenses for which claims were processed is applied to meet the $75 deductible for that year. Medicare Part B pays 80 percent of the remaining $25, or $20.

(2) Mr. B submitted a claim that included a $25 charge by a doctor for an examination to prescribe a hearing aid and an $80 charge for office surgery. This was the first claim relating to Mr. B's medical expenses processed in the calendar year. The carrier disallowed the $25 charge because the type of examination is not covered by Medicare. The carrier reduced the $80 surgery charge to a reasonable charge of $40. Only the $40 reasonable charge for covered services will count toward meeting Mr. B's deductible. Since the remainder of the surgery charge constitutes and excess over the reasonable charge, it cannot be applied to satisfy Mr. B's deductible.

(3) Mr. C became entitled to Medicare Part B benefits on July 1, 1982. He incurred expenses of $200 in July, August, and September. The carrier determined that the changes as submitted were reasonable. Even though Mr. C was entitled to benefits for only half the year, he must meet the full $75 deductible. Thus, $75 of this expense constitutes Mr. C's deductible. Medicare would pay $100, which is 80 percent of the remaining $125.
