
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart A - General Exclusions and Exclusion of Particular Services
###### ยง 411.15 Particular services excluded from coverage.
####### Inapplicability.

(3)(i) Dental services that are inextricably linked to, and substantially related and integral to the clinical success of, a certain covered medical service are not excluded; payment may be made under Medicare Parts A and B for services furnished in the inpatient or outpatient setting. Such services include, but are not limited to:

(A) Dental or oral examination performed as part of a comprehensive workup in either the inpatient or outpatient setting prior to Medicare-covered organ transplant, cardiac valve replacement, or valvuloplasty procedures; and, medically necessary diagnostic and treatment services to eliminate an oral or dental infection prior to, or contemporaneously with, the organ transplant, cardiac valve replacement, or valvuloplasty procedure.

(B) The reconstruction of a dental ridge performed as a result of and at the same time as the surgical removal of a tumor.

(C) The stabilization or immobilization of teeth in connection with the reduction of a jaw fracture, and dental splints only when used in conjunction with covered treatment of a covered medical condition such as dislocated jaw joints.

(D) The extraction of teeth to prepare the jaw for radiation treatment of neoplastic disease.

(ii) Ancillary services and supplies furnished incident to covered dental services are not excluded, and Medicare payment may be made under Part A or Part B, as applicable, whether the service is performed in the inpatient or outpatient setting, including, but not limited to the administration of anesthesia, diagnostic x-rays, use of operating room, and other related procedures.
