
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart A - General Exclusions and Exclusion of Particular Services
###### § 411.15 Particular services excluded from coverage.
####### Any services that are not reasonable and necessary

(k)for one of the following purposes:

(1) For the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve the functioning of a malformed body member.

(2) In the case of hospice services, for the palliation or management of terminal illness, as provided in part 418 of this chapter.

(3) In the case of pneumococcal vaccine for the prevention of illness.

(4) In the case of the patient outcome assessment program established under section 1875(c) of the Act, for carrying out the purpose of that section.

(5) In the case of hepatitis B vaccine, for the prevention of illness for those individuals at high or intermediate risk of contracting hepatitis B. (Section 410.63(a) of this chapter sets forth criteria for identifying those individuals.)

(6) In the case of screening mammography, for the purpose of early detection of breast cancer subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.34 of this chapter.

(7) In the case of colorectal cancer screening tests, for the purpose of early detection of colorectal cancer subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.37 of this chapter.

(8) In the case of screening pelvic examinations, for the purpose of early detection of cervical or vaginal cancer subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.56 of this chapter.

(9) In the case of prostate cancer screening tests, for the purpose of early detection of prostate cancer, subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.39 of this chapter.

(10) In the case of screening exams for glaucoma, for the purpose of early detection of glaucoma, subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.23 of this chapter.

(11) In the case of initial preventive physical examinations, with the goal of health promotion and disease prevention, subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.16 of this chapter.

(12) In the case of ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms, with the goal of early detection of abdominal aortic aneurysms, subject to the conditions and limitation specified in § 410.19 of this chapter.

(13) In the case of cardiovascular disease screening tests for the early detection of cardiovascular disease or abnormalities associated with an elevated risk for that disease, subject to the conditions specified in § 410.17 of this chapter.

(14) In the case of diabetes screening tests furnished to an individual at risk for diabetes for the purpose of the early detection of that disease, subject to the conditions specified in § 410.18 of this chapter.

(15) In the case of additional preventive services not otherwise described in this title, subject to the conditions and limitation specified in § 410.64 of this chapter.

(16) In the case of an annual wellness visit providing a personalized prevention plan, subject to the conditions and limitations specified in § 410.15 of this subpart.
