
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart B - Insurance Coverage That Limits Medicare Payment: General Provisions
###### ยง 411.33 Amount of Medicare secondary payment.
####### Examples:

(f)(1) A hospital furnished 7 days of inpatient hospital care in 1987 to a Medicare beneficiary. The provider's charges for Medicare-covered services totaled $2,800. The primary payer paid $2,360. No part of the Medicare inpatient hospital deductible of $520 had been met. If the gross amount payable by Medicare in this case is $2,700, then as secondary payer, Medicare pays the lowest of the following amounts:

(i) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the Medicare inpatient hospital deductible: $2,700-$520 = $2,180.

(ii) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the primary payment: $2,700-$2,360 = $340.

(iii) The provider's charges minus the primary payment: $2,800-$2,360 = $440.

(iv) The provider's charges minus the Medicare deductible: $2,800-$520 = $2,280. Medicare's secondary payment is $340 and the combined payment made by the primary payer and Medicare on behalf of the beneficiary is $2,700. The $520 deductible was satisfied by the primary payment so that the beneficiary incurred no out-of-pocket expenses.

(2) A hospital furnished 1 day of inpatient hospital care in 1987 to a Medicare beneficiary. The provider's charges for Medicare-covered services totalled $750. The primary payer paid $450. No part of the Medicare inpatient hospital deductible had been met previously. The primary payment is credited toward that deductible. If the gross amount payable by Medicare in this case is $850, then as secondary payer, Medicare pays the lowest of the following amounts:

(i) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the Medicare deductible: $850-$520 = $330.

(ii) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the primary payment: $850-$450 = $400.

(iii) The provider's charges minus the primary payment: $750-$450 = $300.

(iv) The provider's charges minus the Medicare deductible: $750-$520 = $230. Medicare's secondary payment is $230, and the combined payment made by the primary payer and Medicare on behalf of the beneficiary is $680. The hospital may bill the beneficiary $70 (the $520 deductible minus the $450 primary payment). This fully discharges the beneficiary's deductible obligation.

(3) An ESRD beneficiary received 8 dialysis treatments for which a facility charged $160 per treatment for a total of $1,280. No part of the beneficiary's $75 Part B deductible had been met. The primary payer paid $1,024 for Medicare-covered services. The composite rate per dialysis treatment at this facility is $131 or $1,048 for 8 treatments. As secondary payer, Medicare pays the lowest of the following:

(i) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the applicable Medicare deductible and coinsurance: $1,048-$75-$194.60 = $778.40. (The coinsurance is calculated as follows: $1,048 composite rate-$75 deductible = $973 x .20 = $194.60).

(ii) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the primary payment: $1,048-$1,024 = $24.

(iii) The provider's charges minus the primary payment: $1,280-$1,024 = $256.

(iv) The provider's charge minus the Medicare deductible and coinsurance: $1,280-$75-$194.60 = 1010.40. Medicare pays $24. The beneficiary's Medicare deductible and coinsurance were met by the primary payment.

(4) A hospital furnished 5 days of inpatient care in 1987 to a Medicare beneficiary. The provider's charges for Medicare-covered services were $4,000 and the gross amount payable was $3,500. The provider agreed to accept $3,000 from the primary payer as payment in full. The primary payer paid $2,900 due to a deductible requirement under the primary plan. Medicare considers the amount the provider is obligated to accept as full payment ($3,000) to be the provider charges. The Medicare secondary payment is the lowest of the following:

(i) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the Medicare inpatient deductible: $3,500-$520 = $2,980.

(ii) The gross amount payable by Medicare minus the primary payment: $3,500-$2,900 = $600.

(iii) The provider's charge minus the primary payment: $3,000-$2,900 = $100.

(iv) The provider's charges minus the Medicare inpatient deductible: $3,000-$520 = $2,480. The Medicare secondary payment is $100. When Medicare is the secondary payer, the combined payment made by the primary payer and Medicare on behalf of the beneficiary is $3,000. The beneficiary has no liability for Medicare-covered services since the primary payment satisfied the $520 deductible.
