
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart B - Insurance Coverage That Limits Medicare Payment: General Provisions
###### ยง 411.39 Automobile and liability insurance (including self-insurance), no-fault insurance, and workers' compensation: Final conditional payment amounts via Web portal.
####### 8

() Similar circumstances beyond the ordinary control of government, private sector officers or management.

(v) The beneficiary, or his or her attorney, or other representative may then address discrepancies by disputing individual conditional payments, once and only once, if he or she believes that the conditional payment included in the most up-to-date conditional payment summary statement is unrelated to the pending liability insurance (including self-insurance), no-fault insurance, or workers' compensation settlement, judgment, award, or other payment.

(A) The dispute process is not an appeals process, nor does it establish a right of appeal regarding that dispute. There will be no administrative or judicial review related to this dispute process.

(B) The beneficiary, or his or her attorney or other representative may be required to submit supporting documentation in the form and manner specified by the Secretary to support his or her dispute.

(vi) Disputes submitted through the Web portal and after the beneficiary, or his or her attorney, other representative, or authorized applicable plan has notified CMS that he or she is 120 days or less from the anticipated date of a settlement, judgment, award, or other payment, are resolved within 11 business days of receipt of the dispute and any required supporting documentation.

(vii) When any disputes have been fully resolved, the beneficiary, or his or her attorney or other representative, may download or otherwise request a time and date stamped conditional payment summary statement through the Web portal.

(A) If the download or request is within 3 days of the date of settlement, judgment, award, or other payment, that conditional payment summary statement will constitute Medicare's final conditional payment amount.

(B) If the beneficiary, or his or her attorney or other representative, is within 3 days of the date of settlement, judgment, award, or other payment and any claim disputes have not been fully resolved, he or she may not download or otherwise request a final conditional payment summary statement.

(viii) Within 30 days or less of securing a settlement, judgment, award, or other payment, the beneficiary, or his or her attorney or other representative, must submit through the Web portal documentation specified by the Secretary, including, but not limited to the following:

(A) The date of settlement, judgment, award, or other payment, including the total settlement amount, the attorney fee amount or percentage.

(B) Additional costs borne by the beneficiary to obtain his or her settlement, judgment, award, or other payment.
