
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart E - Limitations on Payment for Services Covered Under Group Health Plans: General Provisions
###### ยง 411.110 Basis for determination of nonconformance.

(a) A "determination of nonconformance" is a CMS determination that a GHP or LGHP is a nonconforming plan as provided in this section.

(b) CMS makes a determination of nonconformance for a GHP or LGHP that, at any time during a calendar year, fails to comply with any of the following statutory provisions:

(1) The prohibition against taking into account that a beneficiary who is covered or seeks to be covered under the plan is entitled to Medicare on the basis of ESRD, age, or disability, or eligible on the basis of ESRD.

(2) The nondifferentiation clause for individuals with ESRD.

(3) The equal benefits clause for the working aged.

(4) The obligation to refund conditional Medicare primary payments.

(c) CMS may make a determination of nonconformance for a GHP or LGHP that fails to respond to a request for information, or to provide correct information, either voluntarily or in response to a CMS request, on the plan's primary payment obligation with respect to a given beneficiary, if that failure contributes to either or both of the following:

(1) Medicare erroneously making a primary payment.

(2) A delay or foreclosure of CMS's ability to recover an erroneous primary payment.
