
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart F - Special Rules: Individuals Eligible or Entitled on the Basis of ESRD, Who Are Also Covered Under Group Health Plans
###### ยง 411.162 Medicare benefits secondary to group health plan benefits.
####### End of coordination period.

(c)(1) For individuals who start a regular course of renal dialysis or who receive a kidney transplant before December 1989, the coordination period ends with the earlier of the end of the 12th month of dialysis or the end of the 12th month of a transplant. The 12th month of dialysis may be any time from the 9th month through the 12th month of Medicare entitlement, depending on the extent to which the individual was subject to a waiting period before becoming entitled to Medicare.

(2) The coordination period for the following individuals ends with the earlier of the 12th month of eligibility or the 12th month of entitlement to Medicare part A:

(i) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who became entitled to Medicare part A solely on the basis of ESRD during December 1989 and January 1990.

(ii) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who could have become entitled to Medicare Part A solely on the basis of ESRD during December 1989 and January 1990 if they had filed an application.

(iii) Individuals who become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD after September 1997.

(iv) Individuals who can become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD after September 1997.

(3) The coordination period for the following individuals ends with the earlier of the end of the 18th month of eligibility or the 18th month of entitlement to Medicare part A:

(i) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from February 1990 through April 1997.

(ii) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who could become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from February 1990 through April 1997 if they would file an application.

(4) The coordination periods for the following individuals ends September 30, 1998:

(i) Individuals who become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from May 1997, through September 1997.

(ii) Individuals who could become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from May 1997, through September 1997, if they would file an application.
