
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart F - Special Rules: Individuals Eligible or Entitled on the Basis of ESRD, Who Are Also Covered Under Group Health Plans
###### ยง 411.162 Medicare benefits secondary to group health plan benefits.
####### Examples.

(d)Based on the rules specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and the rules specified in ยง 406.13 of this subchapter, the following examples illustrate how to determine, in different situations, the number of months during which Medicare is secondary payer.

(1) An individual began dialysis on November 4, 1989. He did not initiate a course in self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare on February 1, 1990. Since this individual began dialysis before December 1989, the 12-month period began with the first month of dialysis, November 1989, and ended October 31, 1990. The coordination period in this case is 9 months, February 1990 through October 1990.

(2) An individual began dialysis on January 29, 1990. He did not initiate a course in self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare on April 1, 1990. Since the individual began dialysis after November 1989, and became entitled to Medicare after January 1990, the coordination period began with the first month of entitlement, April 1990, and ended September 30, 1991, the end of the 18th month of entitlement.

(3) An individual began a regular course of maintenance dialysis on February 10, 1990. He did not initiate a course of self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare on May 1, 1990. Medicare is secondary payer from May 1, 1990 through October 1991, a total of 18 months.

(4) The same facts exist as in the example under paragraph (d)(3), except that the individual began a course of self-dialysis training during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, the effective date of his Medicare entitlement is February 1, 1990, and Medicare is secondary payer from February 1, 1990 through July 1991, a total of 18 months.

(5) An individual began dialysis on September 15, 1990. He did not initiate a course of self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare effective December 1, 1990. Medicare is secondary payer from December 1, 1990 through May 1992, a total of 18 months.

(6) An individual began dialysis on November 17, 1990. He initiates a course of self-dialysis training in January 1991, and thus becomes entitled to Medicare effective November 1, 1990. Medicare is secondary payer from November 1, 1990, through April 1992, a total of 18 months.

(7) An individual began a regular course of dialysis on December 10, 1990. He does not initiate a course of self-dialysis training nor does he receive a kidney transplant. He decides to delay his enrollment in Medicare because his employer group health plan pays charges in full and he does not wish to incur part B premiums at this time. However, in March 1992, he files for part A and part B Medicare entitlement, and stipulates that he wants his Medicare entitlement to be effective March 1, 1992 (one year later than he could have become entitled). Since this individual could have been entitled to Medicare as early as March 1, 1991, Medicare is secondary payer only from March 1, 1992, through August 1992, a period of 6 months.

(8) The same facts exist as in the example under paragraph (d)(7) of this section, except that the individual defers Medicare entitlement beyond August 1992. (For purposes of this example, Medicare entitlement is not retroactive, but rather takes effect after August 1992.) There would be no period during which Medicare is secondary payer in this situation. This is because Medicare entitlement does not begin until after the 18-month period expires as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. Medicare would become primary payer as of the effective date of Medicare entitlement. The employer plan is required to pay primary from December 1, 1990, through August 1992, a total of 21 months.

(9) An individual becomes entitled to Medicare on December 1, 1997. The employer plan is primary payer, and Medicare is secondary payer, from December 1, 1997, through November 30, 1998, a period of 12 months. Medicare becomes primary payer on December 1, 1998, because the extension of the coordination period from 12 to 18 months applies only to items and services furnished before October 1, 1998.

(10) An individual becomes entitled to Medicare on August 1, 1997. Medicare is secondary payer from August 1, 1997, through September 30, 1998, a period of 14 months. Medicare becomes primary payer on October 1, 1998, because the coordination period has expired.

(e) [Reserved]
