
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart F - Special Rules: Individuals Eligible or Entitled on the Basis of ESRD, Who Are Also Covered Under Group Health Plans
###### ยง 411.163 Coordination of benefits: Dual entitlement situations.
####### Examples.

(c)(1) (Rule (b)(1).) Mr. A, who is covered by a GHP, became entitled to Medicare on the basis of ESRD in January 1992. On December 20, 1992, Mr. A attained age 65 and became entitled on the basis of age. Since prior law was still in effect (OBRA '93 amendment was effective in August 1993), Medicare became primary payer as of December 1992, when dual entitlement began.

(2) (Rule (b)(2).) Miss B, who has GHP coverage, became entitled to Medicare on the basis of ESRD in July 1992, and also entitled on the basis of disability in June 1993. Medicare was primary payer from June 1993 through August 9, 1993, because the plan permissibly took into account the ESRD-based entitlement (ESRD was not the "sole" basis of Medicare entitlement); secondary payer from August 10, 1993, through December 1993, the 18th month of ESRD-based entitlement (the plan is no longer permitted to take into account ESRD-based entitlement that is not the "sole" basis of Medicare entitlement); and again became primary payer beginning January 1994.

(3) (Rule (b)(3).) Mr. C, who is 67 years old and entitled to Medicare on the basis of age, has GHP coverage by virtue of current employment status. Mr. C is diagnosed as having ESRD and begins a course of maintenance dialysis on June 27, 1993. Effective September 1, 1993, Mr. C. is eligible for Medicare on the basis of ESRD. Medicare, which was secondary because Mr. C's GHP coverage was by virtue of current employment, continues to be secondary payer through February 1995, the 18th month of ESRD-based eligibility, and becomes primary payer beginning March 1995.

(4) (Rule (b)(3).) Mr. D retired at age 62 and maintained GHP coverage as a retiree. In January 1994, at the age of 64, Mr. D became entitled to Medicare based on ESRD. Seven months into the 18-month coordination period (July 1994) Mr. D turned age 65. The coordination period continues without regard to age-based entitlement, with the retirement plan continuing to pay primary benefits through June 1995, the 18th month of ESRD-based entitlement. Thereafter, Medicare becomes the primary payer.

(5) (Rule (b)(3).) Mrs. E retired at age 62 and maintained GHP coverage as a retiree. In July 1994, she simultaneously became eligible for Medicare based on ESRD (maintenance dialysis began in April 1994) and entitled based on age. The retirement plan must pay benefits primary to Medicare from July 1994 through December 1995, the first 18 months of ESRD-based eligibility. Thereafter, Medicare becomes the primary payer.

(6) (Rule (b)(3).) Mr. F, who is 67 years of age, is working and has GHP coverage because of his employment status, subsequently develops ESRD, and begins a course of maintenance dialysis in October 1994. He becomes eligible for Medicare based on ESRD effective January 1, 1995. Under the working aged provision, the plan continues to pay primary to Medicare through December 1994. On January 1, 1995, the working aged provision ceases to apply and the ESRD MSP provision takes effect. In September 1995, Mr. F retires. The GHP must ignore Mr. F's retirement status and continue to pay primary to Medicare through June 1996, the end of the 18-month coordination period.

(7) (Rule (b)(4).) Mrs. G, who is 67 years of age, is retired. She has GHP retirement coverage through her former employer. Her plan permissibly took into account her age-based Medicare entitlement when she retired and is paying benefits secondary to Medicare. Mrs. G subsequently develops ESRD and begins a course of maintenance dialysis in October 1995. She automatically becomes eligible for Medicare based on ESRD effective January 1, 1996. The plan continues to be secondary on the basis of Mrs. G's age-based entitlement as long as the plan does not differentiate in the services it provides to Mrs. G and does not do anything else that would constitute "taking into account" her ESRD-based eligibility.
