
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart J - Financial Relationships Between Physicians and Entities Furnishing Designated Health Services
###### ยง 411.357 Exceptions to the referral prohibition related to compensation arrangements.
####### per capita

(B) The lower of aallocation or 20 percent of the practice's aggregate costs.

(iv) Records of the actual costs and the passed-through amounts are maintained for a period of at least 6 years and made available to the Secretary upon request.

(v) The remuneration from the hospital under the arrangement is not determined in any manner that takes into account the volume or value of actual or anticipated referrals by the recruited physician or the physician practice (or any physician affiliated with the physician practice) receiving the direct payments from the hospital.

(vi) The physician practice may not impose on the recruited physician practice restrictions that unreasonably restrict the recruited physician's ability to practice medicine in the geographic area served by the hospital.

(5) Recruitment of a physician by a hospital located in a rural area (as defined at ยง 411.351) to an area outside the geographic area served by the hospital is permitted under this exception if the Secretary determines in an advisory opinion issued under section 1877(g) of the Act that the area has a demonstrated need for the recruited physician and all other requirements of this paragraph (e) are met.

(6)(i) This paragraph (e) applies to remuneration provided by a federally qualified health center, rural health clinic, or rural emergency hospital in the same manner as it applies to remuneration provided by a hospital.

(ii) The "geographic area served" by a federally qualified health center, rural health clinic, or rural emergency hospital is the area composed of the lowest number of contiguous or noncontiguous zip codes from which the federally qualified health center, rural health clinic, or rural emergency hospital draws at least 90 percent of its patients, as determined on an encounter basis. The geographic area served by the federally qualified health center, rural health clinic, or rural emergency hospital may include one or more zip codes from which the federally qualified health center, rural health clinic, or rural emergency hospital draws no patients, provided that such zip codes are entirely surrounded by zip codes in the geographic area described in the preceding sentence from which the federally qualified health center, rural health clinic, or rural emergency hospital draws at least 90 percent of its patients.
