
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart J - Financial Relationships Between Physicians and Entities Furnishing Designated Health Services
###### ยง 411.362 Additional requirements concerning physician ownership and investment in hospitals.
####### Disclosure of conflicts of interest.

(3)(i) At such time and in such manner as specified by CMS, the hospital must submit an annual report to CMS containing a detailed description of the identity of each owner or investor in the hospital and the nature and extent of all ownership and investment interests in the hospital.

(ii) The hospital must-

(A) Require each referring physician owner or investor who is a member of the hospital's medical staff to agree, as a condition of continued medical staff membership or admitting privileges, to provide written disclosure of his or her ownership or investment interest in the hospital (and, if applicable, the ownership or investment interest of any treating physician) to all patients whom the physician refers to the hospital. Disclosure must be required by a time that permits the patient to make a meaningful decision regarding the receipt of care.

(B) Not condition any physician ownership or investment interests either directly or indirectly on the physician owner or investor making or influencing referrals to the hospital or otherwise generating business for the hospital.

(C) Disclose on any public Web site for the hospital and in any public advertising for the hospital that the hospital is owned or invested in by physicians. Any language that would put a reasonable person on notice that the hospital may be physician-owned would be deemed a sufficient statement of physician ownership or investment. For purposes of this section, a public Web site for the hospital does not include, by way of example: social media Web sites; electronic patient payment portals; electronic patient care portals; and electronic health information exchanges.
