
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart J - Financial Relationships Between Physicians and Entities Furnishing Designated Health Services
###### ยง 411.362 Additional requirements concerning physician ownership and investment in hospitals.
####### Procedure for submitting a request.

(4)

(i) A hospital must either mail an original and one copy of the written request to CMS or submit the request electronically to CMS. If a hospital submits the request electronically, the hospital must mail an original hard copy of the signed certification set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section to CMS.

(ii) A request must include the following information:

(A) The name, address, National Provider Identification number(s) (NPI), Tax Identification Number(s) (TIN), and CMS Certification Number(s) (CCN) of the hospital requesting an exception.

(B) The county in which the hospital requesting an exception is located.

(C) The name, title, address, and daytime telephone number of a contact person who will be available to discuss the request with CMS on behalf of the hospital.

(D) A statement identifying the hospital as an applicable hospital or high Medicaid facility and a detailed explanation with supporting documentation regarding whether and how the hospital satisfies each of the criteria for an applicable hospital or high Medicaid facility. The request must state that the hospital does not discriminate against beneficiaries of Federal health care programs and does not permit physicians practicing at the hospital to discriminate against such beneficiaries.

(E) Documentation supporting the hospital's calculations of its baseline number of operating rooms, procedure rooms, and beds; the hospital's number of operating rooms, procedure rooms, and beds for which the hospital is licensed as of the date that the hospital submits a request for an exception; and the additional number of operating rooms, procedure rooms, and beds by which the hospital requests to expand.

(iii) A request must include the following certification signed by an authorized representative of the hospital: "With knowledge of the penalties for false statements provided by 18 U.S.C. 1001, I certify that all of the information provided in the request and all of the documentation provided with the request is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief." An authorized representative is the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or other comparable officer of the hospital.
