
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 411 - EXCLUSIONS FROM MEDICARE AND LIMITATIONS ON MEDICARE PAYMENT
##### Subpart J - Financial Relationships Between Physicians and Entities Furnishing Designated Health Services
###### ยง 411.362 Additional requirements concerning physician ownership and investment in hospitals.
####### Community input and timing of complete request

(5). Upon submitting a request for an exception and until the hospital receives a CMS decision, the hospital must disclose on any public Web site for the hospital that it is requesting an exception and must also provide actual notification that it is requesting an exception, in either electronic or hard copy form, directly to hospitals whose data are part of the comparisons in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section. Individuals and entities in the hospital's community may provide input with respect to the hospital's request no later than 30 days after CMS publishes notice of the hospital's request in theSuch input must take the form of written comments. The written comments must be either mailed or submitted electronically to CMS. If CMS receives written comments from the community, the hospital has 30 days after CMS notifies the hospital of the written comments to submit a rebuttal statement.

(i) If only filed Medicare hospital cost report data are used in the hospital's request, the written comments, and the hospital's rebuttal statement-

(A) A request will be deemed complete at the end of the 30-day comment period if CMS does not receive written comments from the community.

(B) A request will be deemed complete at the end of the 30-day rebuttal period, regardless of whether the hospital submits a rebuttal statement, if CMS receives written comments from the community.

(ii) If data from an external data source are used in the hospital's request, the written comments, or the hospital's rebuttal statement-

(A) A request will be deemed complete no later than 180 days after the end of the 30-day comment period if CMS does not receive written comments from the community.

(B) A request will be deemed complete no later than 180 days after the end of the 30-day rebuttal period, regardless of whether the hospital submits a rebuttal statement, if CMS receives written comments from the community.
