
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 412.1 Scope of part.
####### Purpose.

(a)(1) This part implements sections 1886(d) and (g) of the Act by establishing a prospective payment system for the operating costs of inpatient hospital services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983, and a prospective payment system for the capital-related costs of inpatient hospital services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991.

(i) Under these prospective payment systems, payment for the operating and capital-related costs of inpatient hospital services furnished by hospitals subject to the systems (generally, short-term, acute-care hospitals) is made on the basis of prospectively determined rates and applied on a per discharge basis.

(ii) Payment for other costs related to inpatient hospital services is made on a reasonable cost basis as follows:

(A) Organ acquisition costs incurred by hospitals with approved organ transplant programs.

(B) The costs of qualified nonphysician anesthetist's services, as described in § 412.113(c).

(C) Direct costs of approved nursing and allied health educational programs.

(D) Costs related to hematopoietic stem cell acquisition for the purpose of an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant as described in § 412.113(e).

(iii) Payment for the direct costs of graduate medical education is made on a per resident amount basis in accordance with §§ 413.75 through 413.83 of this chapter.

(iv) Additional payments are made for outlier cases, bad debts, indirect medical education costs, for serving a disproportionate share of low-income patients, and for the additional resource costs of domestic National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health approved surgical N95 respirators.

(v) Under either prospective payment system, a hospital may keep the difference between its prospective payment rate and its operating or capital-related costs incurred in furnishing inpatient services, and the hospital is at risk for inpatient operating or inpatient capital-related costs that exceed its payment rate.

(2) This part implements section 124 of Public Law 106-113 by establishing a per diem prospective payment system for the inpatient operating and capital costs of hospital inpatient services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries by a psychiatric facility that meets the conditions of subpart N of this part.

(3) This part implements section 1886(j) of the Act by establishing a prospective payment system for the inpatient operating and capital costs of inpatient hospital services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries by a rehabilitation hospital or rehabilitation unit that meets the conditions of § 412.604.

(4) This part implements the following regarding long-term care hospitals-

(i) Section 123 of Public Law 106-113, which provides for the establishment of a prospective payment system for the costs of inpatient hospital services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries by long-term care hospitals described in section 1886(d)(1)(B)(iv) of the Act, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002.

(ii) The provisions of section 307(b) of Public Law 106-554, which state that the Secretary shall examine and may provide for appropriate adjustments to the long-term care hospital prospective payment system, including adjustments to diagnosis-related group (DRG) weights, area wage adjustments, geographic reclassification, outlier adjustments, updates, and disproportionate share adjustments consistent with section 1886(d)(5)(F) of the Act.

(iii) Section 114 of Public Law 110-173, which contains several provisions regarding long-term care hospitals, including the-

(A) Amendment of section 1886 of the Act to add a new subsection (m) that references section 123 of Public Law 106-113 and section 307(b) of Public Law 106-554 for the establishment and implementation of a prospective payment system for payments under title XVIII for inpatient hospital services furnished by a long-term care hospital described in section 1886(d)(1)(B)(iv) of the Act.

(B) Revision of the standard Federal rate for RY 2008.

(5) This part implements section 1886(q) of the Act, which provides that, effective for discharges from an "applicable hospital" beginning on or after October 1, 2012, payments to those hospitals under section 1886(d) of the Act will be reduced to account for certain excess readmissions, under the Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program. This reduction will be made through an adjustment to the hospital's base operating DRG payment amounts under the prospective payment system for inpatient operating costs.

(6) This part implements section 1886(o)(1)(B) of the Act, which directs the Secretary to begin to make value-based incentive payments under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Program to hospitals for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2012, through an adjustment to the base operating DRG payment amounts under the prospective payment system for inpatient operating costs.

(7) This part implements section 1866(k) of the Act, which directs hospitals described in section 1886(d)(1)(B)(v) of the Act to submit data on quality measures to the Secretary.
