
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 412.1 Scope of part.
####### Summary of content.

(b)(1) This subpart describes the basis of payment for inpatient hospital services under the prospective payment systems specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and sets forth the general basis of these systems.

(2) Subpart B of this part sets forth all of the following:

(i)(A) The classifications of hospitals that are included in and excluded from the prospective payment systems specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(B) Requirements governing the inclusion or exclusion of hospitals in the systems as a result of changes in their classification.

(ii) Requirements for the PPS-Exempt Cancer Hospital Quality Reporting (PCHQR) Program.

(3) Subpart C sets forth certain conditions that must be met for a hospital to receive payment under the prospective payment systems specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) Subpart D sets forth the basic methodology by which prospective payment rates for inpatient operating costs are determined under the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(5) Subpart E describes the transition ratesetting methods that are used to determine transition payment rates for inpatient operating costs during the first 4 years of the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(6) Subpart F sets forth the methodology for determining payments for outlier cases under the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(7) Subpart G sets forth rules for special treatment of certain facilities under the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for inpatient operating costs.

(8) Subpart H describes the types, amounts, and methods of payment to hospitals under the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for inpatient operating costs.

(9) Subpart K describes how the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for inpatient operating costs is implemented for hospitals located in Puerto Rico.

(10) Subpart L sets forth the procedures and criteria concerning applications from hospitals to the Medicare Geographic Classification Review Board for geographic redesignation under the prospective payment systems specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(11) Subpart M describes how the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for inpatient capital-related costs is implemented effective with reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991.

(12) Subpart N describes the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for inpatient psychiatric facilities and sets forth the general methodology for paying the operating and capital-related costs of inpatient hospital services furnished by inpatient psychiatric facilities effective with cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005.

(13) Subpart O of this part describes the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section for long-term care hospitals and sets forth the general methodology for paying for the operating and capital-related costs of inpatient hospital services furnished by long-term care hospitals, effective with cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002.

(14) Subpart P describes the prospective payment system specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units and sets forth the general methodology for paying for the operating and capital-related costs of inpatient hospital services furnished by rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units effective with cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2002.
