
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 412.2 Basis of payment.
####### Payment in full.

(b)(1) The prospective payment amount paid for inpatient hospital services is the total Medicare payment for the inpatient operating costs (as described in paragraph (c) of this section) and the inpatient capital-related costs (as described in paragraph (d) of this section) incurred in furnishing services covered by the Medicare program.

(2) The full prospective payment amount, as determined under subpart D, E, or G and under subpart M of this part, is made for each stay during which there is at least one Medicare payable day of care. Payable days of care, for purposes of this paragraph include the following:

(i) Limitation of liability days payable under the payment procedures for custodial care and services that are not reasonable and necessary as specified in § 411.400 of this chapter.

(ii) Guarantee of payment days, as authorized under § 409.68 of this chapter, for inpatient hospital services furnished to an individual whom the hospital has reason to believe is entitled to Medicare benefits at the time of admission.

(3) If a patient is admitted to an acute care hospital and then the acute care hospital meets the criteria at § 412.23(e) to be paid as a LTCH, during the course of the patient's hospitalization, Medicare considers all the days of the patient stay in the facility (days prior to and after the designation of LTCH status) to be a single episode of LTCH care. Medicare will not make payment under subpart H for any part of the hospitalization. Payment for the entire patient stay (days prior to and after the designation of LTCH status) will be made in accordance with the requirements specified in § 412.521. The requirements of this paragraph (b)(3) apply only to a patient stay in which a patient is in an acute care hospital and that hospital is designated as a LTCH on or after October 1, 2004.
