
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 412.2 Basis of payment.
####### Inpatient operating costs.

(c)The prospective payment system provides a payment amount for inpatient operating costs, including-

(1) Operating costs for routine services (as described in ยง 413.53(b) of this chapter), such as the costs of room, board, and routine nursing services;

(2) Operating costs for ancillary services, such as radiology and laboratory services furnished to hospital inpatients;

(3) Special care unit operating costs (intensive care type unit services, as described in ยง 413.53(b) of this chapter);

(4) Malpractice insurance costs related to services furnished to inpatients; and

(5) Preadmission services otherwise payable under Medicare Part B furnished to a beneficiary on the date of the beneficiary's admission to the hospital and during the 3 calendar days immediately preceding the date of the beneficiary's admission to the hospital that meet the condition specified in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and at least one of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii) through (c)(5)(iv).

(i) The services are furnished by the hospital or by an entity wholly owned or operated by the hospital. An entity is wholly owned by the hospital if the hospital is the sole owner of the entity. An entity is wholly operated by a hospital if the hospital has exclusive responsibility for conducting and overseeing the entity's routine operations, regardless of whether the hospital also has policymaking authority over the entity.

(ii) For services furnished after January 1, 1991, the services are diagnostic (including clinical diagnostic laboratory tests).

(iii) For services furnished on or after October 1, 1991, through June 24, 2010, the services are furnished in connection with the principal diagnosis that requires the beneficiary to be admitted as an inpatient and are not the following:

(A) Ambulance services.

(B) Maintenance renal dialysis.

(iv) Nondiagnostic services furnished on or after June 25, 2010, other than ambulance services and maintenance renal dialysis services, that are furnished on the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission or on the first, second, or third calendar day immediately preceding the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission and the hospital does not attest that such services are unrelated to the beneficiary's inpatient admission.
