
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 412.2 Basis of payment.
####### Additional payments to hospitals.

(f)In addition to payments based on the prospective payment system rates for inpatient operating and inpatient capital-related costs, hospitals receive payments for the following:

(1) Outlier cases, as described in subpart F of this part.

(2) The indirect costs of graduate medical education, as specified in subparts F and G of this part and in § 412.105 for inpatient operating costs and in § 412.322 for inpatient capital-related costs.

(3) Costs excluded from the prospective payment rates under paragraph (e) of this section, as provided in § 412.115.

(4) Bad debts of Medicare beneficiaries, as provided in § 412.115(a).

(5) ESRD beneficiary discharges if such discharges are ten percent or more of the hospital's total Medicare discharges, as provided in § 412.104.

(6) Serving a disproportionate share of low-income patients, as provided in § 412.106 for inpatient operating costs and § 412.320 for inpatient capital-related costs.

(7) The direct graduate medical education costs for approved residency programs in medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, and podiatry as described in §§ 413.75-413.83 of this chapter.

(8) For discharges on or after June 19, 1990, and before October 1, 1994, and for discharges on or after October 1, 1997, a payment amount per unit for blood clotting factor provided to Medicare inpatients who have hemophilia. For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2005, the additional payment is made based on the average sales price methodology specified in subpart K, part 414 of this subchapter and the furnishing fee specified in § 410.63 of this subchapter.

(9) Special additional payment for certain new technology as specified in §§ 412.87 and 412.88 of subpart F.

(10) A payment adjustment for the additional resource costs of domestic National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health approved surgical N95 respirators as specified in § 412.113.
