
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Hospital Services Subject to and Excluded From the Prospective Payment Systems for Inpatient Operating Costs and Inpatient Capital-Related Costs
###### ยง 412.22 Excluded hospitals and hospital units: General rules.
####### 3,2,1

() A hospital described in paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(A)() of this section that establishes an additional satellite facility in a cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2009, must meet the criteria in this section, including the provisions of paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(A)() of this section with respect to the additional satellite facility, in order to be excluded from the inpatient prospective payment system.

(B) It maintains admission and discharge records that are separately identified from those of the hospital in which it is located and are readily available.

(C) It has beds that are physically separate from (that is, not commingled with) the beds of the hospital in which it is located.

(D) It is serviced by the same fiscal intermediary as the hospital of which it is a part.

(E) It is treated as a separate cost center of the hospital of which it is a part.

(F) For cost reporting and apportionment purposes, it uses an accounting system that properly allocates costs and maintains adequate statistical data to support the basis of allocation.

(G) It reports its costs on the cost report of the hospital of which it is a part, covering the same fiscal period and using the same method of apportionment as the hospital of which it is a part.
