
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Hospital Services Subject to and Excluded From the Prospective Payment Systems for Inpatient Operating Costs and Inpatient Capital-Related Costs
###### § 412.25 Excluded hospital units: Common requirements.
####### Basis for exclusion.

(a)In order to be excluded from the prospective payment systems as specified in § 412.1(a)(1) and be paid under the inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system as specified in § 412.1(a)(2) or the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system as specified in § 412.1(a)(3), a psychiatric or rehabilitation unit must meet the following requirements.

(1) Be part of an institution that-

(i) Has in effect an agreement under part 489 of this chapter to participate as a hospital;

(ii) Prior to October 1, 2019, is not excluded in its entirety from the prospective payment systems; and

(iii) Unless it is a unit in a critical access hospital, the hospital of which an IRF is a unit must have at least 10 staffed and maintained hospital beds that are paid under the applicable payment system under which the hospital is paid, or at least 1 staffed and maintained hospital bed for every 10 certified inpatient rehabilitation facility beds, whichever number is greater. Otherwise, the IRF will be classified as an IRF hospital, rather than an IRF unit. In the case of an inpatient psychiatric facility unit, the hospital must have enough beds that are paid under the applicable payment system under which the hospital is paid to permit the provision of adequate cost information, as required by § 413.24(c) of this chapter.

(2) Have written admission criteria that are applied uniformly to both Medicare and non-Medicare patients.

(3) Have admission and discharge records that are separately identified from those of the hospital in which it is located and are readily available.

(4) Have policies specifying that necessary clinical information is transferred to the unit when a patient of the hospital is transferred to the unit.

(5) Meet applicable State licensure laws.

(6) Have utilization review standards applicable for the type of care offered in the unit.

(7) Have beds physically separate from (that is, not commingled with) the hospital's other beds.

(8) Be serviced by the same fiscal intermediary as the hospital.

(9) Be treated as a separate cost center for cost finding and apportionment purposes.

(10) Use an accounting system that properly allocates costs.

(11) Maintain adequate statistical data to support the basis of allocation.

(12) Report its costs in the hospital's cost report covering the same fiscal period and using the same method of apportionment as the hospital.

(13) As of the first day of the first cost reporting period for which all other exclusion requirements are met, the unit is fully equipped and staffed and is capable of providing hospital inpatient psychiatric or rehabilitation care regardless of whether there are any inpatients in the unit on that date.
