
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Conditions for Payment Under the Prospective Payment Systems for Inpatient Operating Costs and Inpatient Capital-Related Costs
###### § 412.42 Limitations on charges to beneficiaries.
####### Permitted charges-Stay covered.

(b)A hospital receiving payment under the prospective payment systems for a covered hospital stay (that is, a stay that includes at least one covered day) may charge the Medicare beneficiary or other person only for the following:

(1) The applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts under §§ 409.82, 409.83, and 409.87 of this chapter.

(2) Noncovered items and services, furnished at any time during a covered stay, unless they are excluded from coverage only on the basis of the following:

(i) The exclusion of custodial care under § 411.15(g) of this chapter (see paragraph (c) of this section for when charges may be made for custodial care).

(ii) The exclusion of medically unnecessary items and services under § 411.15(k) of this chapter (see paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section for when charges may be made for medically unnecessary items and services).

(iii) The exclusion under § 411.15(m) of this chapter of nonphysician services furnished to hospital inpatients by other than the hospital or a provider or supplier under arrangements made by the hospital.

(iv) The exclusion of items and services furnished when the patient is not entitled to Medicare Part A benefits under subpart A of part 406 of this chapter (see paragraph (e) of this section for when charges may be made for items and services furnished when the patient is not entitled to benefits).

(v) The exclusion of items and services furnished after Medicare Part A benefits are exhausted under § 409.61 of this chapter (see paragraph (e) of this section for when charges may be made for items and services furnished after benefits are exhausted).
