
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Conditions for Payment Under the Prospective Payment Systems for Inpatient Operating Costs and Inpatient Capital-Related Costs
###### § 412.50 Furnishing of inpatient hospital services directly or under arrangements.

(a) The applicable payments made under the prospective payment systems, as described in subparts H and M of this part, are payment in full for all inpatient hospital services, as defined in § 409.10 of this chapter. Inpatient hospital services do not include the following types of services:

(1) Physician services that meet the requirements of § 415.102(a) of this chapter for payment on a fee schedule basis.

(2) Physician assistant services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act.

(3) Nurse practitioner and clinical nurse specialist services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(ii) of the Act.

(4) Certified nurse mid-wife services, as defined in section 1861(gg) of the Act.

(5) Qualified psychologist services, as defined in section 1861(ii) of the Act.

(6) Services of an anesthetist, as defined in § 410.69 of this chapter.

(b) CMS does not pay any provider or supplier other than the hospital for services furnished to a beneficiary who is an inpatient, except for the services described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section.

(c) The hospital must furnish all necessary covered services to the beneficiary either directly or under arrangements (as defined in § 409.3 of this chapter).
