
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Basic Methodology for Determining Prospective Payment Federal Rates for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### § 412.63 Federal rates for inpatient operating costs for Federal fiscal years 1984 through 2004.
####### Geographic classifications.

(b)Effective for fiscal years 1985 through 2004, the following rules apply.

(1) For purposes of this section, the definitions set forth in § 412.62(f) apply, except that, effective January 1, 2000, a hospital reclassified as rural may mean a reclassification that results from a geographic redesignation as set forth in § 412.62(f)(1)(iv) or a reclassification that results from an urban hospital applying for reclassification as rural as set forth in § 412.103.

(2) For hospitals within an MSA or NECMA that crosses census division boundaries, the following provisions apply:

(i) The MSA or NECMA is deemed to belong to the census division in which most of the hospitals within the MSA or NECMA are located.

(ii) A hospital that met the conditions specified in § 412.62(f)(2)(ii) and therefore did not receive a lower Federal rate that would have applied for cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 1984, receives the lower Federal rate applicable to all hospitals in the MSA or NECMA in which it is located effective with the hospital's cost reporting period that begins on or after October 1, 1984.

(iii) The higher Federal rate is payable to all hospitals in the MSA or NECMA if an equal number of hospitals within the MSA or NECMA are located in each census division.

(3) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1988, a hospital located in a rural county adjacent to one or more urban areas is deemed to be located in an urban area and receives the Federal payment amount for the urban area to which the greater number of workers in the county commute if the rural county would otherwise be considered part of an urban area, under the standards for designating MSAs or NECMAs if the commuting rates used in determining outlying counties were determined on the basis of the aggregate number of resident workers who commute to (and, if applicable under the standards, from) the central county or central counties of all adjacent MSAs or NECMAs. These EOMB standards are set forth in the notice of final standards for classification of MSAs published in theon January 3, 1980 (45 FR 956), and available from CMS, East High Rise Building, room 132, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207.

(4) For purposes of this section, any change in an MSA or NECMA designation is recognized on the October 1 following the effective date of the change.

(5) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1988, for hospitals that consist of two or more separately located inpatient hospital facilities the national adjusted prospective payment rate is based on the geographic location of the hospital facility at which the discharge occurs.
