
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Basic Methodology for Determining Prospective Payment Federal Rates for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.64 Federal rates for inpatient operating costs for Federal fiscal year 2005 and subsequent fiscal years.
####### rural area

(C) The termmeans any area outside an urban area.

(2) For hospitals within an MSA that crosses census division boundaries, the MSA is deemed to belong to the census division in which most of the hospitals within the MSA are located.

(3)(i) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2004, a hospital that is located in a rural county adjacent to one or more urban areas is deemed to be located in an urban area and receives the Federal payment amount for the urban area to which the greater number of workers in the county commute if the rural county would otherwise be considered part of an urban area, under the standards for designating MSAs if the commuting rates used in determining outlying counties were determined on the basis of the aggregate number of resident workers who commute to (and, if applicable under the standards, from) the central county or central counties of all adjacent MSAs. Qualifying counties are determined based upon OMB standards, using the most recent OMB standards for delineating statistical areas adopted by CMS.

(ii) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2007, hospitals in the following New England counties, if not already located in an urban area, are deemed to be located in urban areas under section 601(g) of the Social Security Amendments of 1983 (Pub. L. 98-21, 42 U.S.C. 1395ww (note): Litchfield County, Connecticut; York County, Maine; Sagadahoc County, Maine; Merrimack County, New Hampshire; and Newport County, Rhode Island.

(4) For purposes of this section, any change in an MSA designation is recognized on October 1 following the effective date of the change. Such a change in MSA designation may occur as a result of redesignation of an MSA by the Executive Office of Management and Budget.

(5) For hospitals that consist of two or more separately located inpatient hospital facilities, the national adjusted prospective payment rate is based on the geographic location of the hospital facility at which the discharge occurred.
