
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### § 412.71 Determination of base-year inpatient operating costs.
####### Modifications to base-year costs.

(b)Prior to determining the hospital-specific rate, the intermediary will adjust the hospital's estimated base-year inpatient operating costs, as necessary, to include malpractice insurance costs in accordance with § 413.53(a)(1)(i) of this chapter, and exclude the following:

(1) Medical education costs as described in § 413.85 of this chapter.

(2) Capital-related costs as described in § 413.130 of this chapter.

(3) Kidney acquisition costs incurred by hospitals with approved kidney transplant programs as described in § 412.100. Kidney acquisition costs in the base year are determined by multiplying the hospital's average kidney acquisition cost per kidney times the number of kidney transplants covered by Medicare Part A during the base period.

(4) Higher costs that were incurred for purposes of increasing base-year costs.

(5) One-time nonrecurring higher costs or revenue offsets that have the effect of distorting base-year costs as an appropriate basis for computing the hospital-specific rate.

(6) Higher costs that result from changes in hospital accounting principles initiated in the base year.

(7) The costs of qualified nonphysician anesthetists' services, as described in § 412.113(c).
