
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### § 412.72 Modification of base-year costs.
####### Recognition of additional costs.

(3)(i) The intermediary may adjust base-period costs to take into account additional costs recognized as allowable costs for the hospital's base year as the result of any of the following:

(A) A reopening and revision of the hospital's base-year notice of amount of program reimbursement under §§ 405.1885 through 405.1889 of this chapter.

(B) A prehearing order or finding issued during the provider payment appeals process by the appropriate reviewing authority under § 405.1821 or § 405.1853 of this chapter that resolved a matter at issue in the hospital's base-year notice of amount of program reimbursement.

(C) An affirmation, modification, or reversal of a Provider Reimbursement Review Board decision by the Administrator of CMS under § 405.1875 of this chapter that resolved a matter at issue in the hospital's base-year notice of amount of program reimbursement.

(D) An administrative or judicial review decision under § 405.1831, § 405.1871, or § 405.1877 of this chapter that is final and no longer subject to review under applicable law or regulations by a higher reviewing authority, and that resolved a matter at issue in the hospital's base-year notice of amount of program reimbursement.

(ii) The intermediary will recalculate the hospital's base-year costs, incorporating the additional costs recognized as allowable for the hospital's base year. Adjustments to base-year costs to take into account these additional costs-

(A) Will be effective with the first day of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after the date of the revision, order or finding, or review decision; and

(B) Will not be used to recalculate the hospital-specific portion as determined for fiscal years beginning before the date of the revision, order or finding, or review decision.
