
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.92 Special treatment: Sole community hospitals.
####### Classification procedures,Request for classification as sole community hospital.

(b)-(1)(i) The hospital must make its request to its MAC.

(ii) If a hospital is seeking sole community hospital classification under paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the hospital must include the following information with its request:

(A) The hospital must provide patient origin data (for example, the number of patients from each zip code from which the hospital draws inpatients) for all inpatient discharges to document the boundaries of its service area.

(B) The hospital must provide patient origin data from all other hospitals located within a 35 mile radius of it or, if larger, within its service area, to document that no more than 25 percent of either all of the population or the Medicare beneficiaries residing in the hospital's service area and hospitalized for inpatient care were admitted to other like hospitals for care.

(iii)(A) If the hospital is unable to obtain the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section concerning the residences of Medicare beneficiaries who were inpatients in other hospitals located within a 35 mile radius of the hospital or, if larger, within the hospital's service area, the hospital may request that CMS provide this information.

(B) If a hospital obtains the information as requested under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, that information is used by both the MAC and CMS in making the determination of the residences of Medicare beneficiaries under paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (b)(1)(iv) of this section, regardless of any other information concerning the residences of Medicare beneficiaries submitted by the hospital.

(iv) The MAC reviews the request and send the request, with its recommendation, to CMS.

(v) CMS reviews the request and the MAC's recommendation and forward its approval or disapproval to the MAC.
