
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.92 Special treatment: Sole community hospitals.
####### Effective dates of classification.

(2)(i) For applications received on or before September 30, 2018, sole community hospital status is effective 30 days after the date of CMS' written notification of approval, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section. For applications received on or after October 1, 2018, sole community hospital status is effective as of the date the MAC receives the complete application, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section.

(ii) When a court order or a determination by the Provider Reimbursement Review Board (PRRB) reverses a CMS denial of sole community hospital status and no further appeal is made, the sole community hospital status is effective as follows:

(A) If the hospital's application was submitted prior to October 1, 1983, its status as a sole community hospital is effective at the start of the cost reporting period for which it sought exemption from the cost limits.

(B) If the hospital's application for sole community hospital status was received on or after October 1, 1983 and on or before September 30, 2018, the effective date is 30 days after the date of CMS' original written notification of denial.

(C) If the hospital's application for sole community hospital status was received on or after October 1, 2018, the effective date is the date the MAC receives the complete application.

(iii) When a hospital is granted retroactive approval of sole community hospital status by a court order or a PRRB decision and the hospital wishes its sole community hospital status terminated before the date of the court order or PRRB determination, it must submit written notice to the CMS regional office within 90 days of the court order or PRRB decision. A written request received after the 90-day period is effective no later than 30 days after the request is submitted.

(iv) For applications received on or before September 30, 2018, a hospital classified as a sole community hospital receives a payment adjustment, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, effective with discharges occurring on or after 30 days after the date of CMS' approval of the classification. For applications received on or after October 1, 2018, a hospital classified as a sole community hospital receives a payment adjustment, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, effective with discharges occurring on or after the date the MAC receives the complete application.

(v) If a hospital that is classified as an MDH under ยง 412.108 applies for classification as a sole community hospital because its status under the MDH program expires with the expiration of the MDH program, and that hospital's sole community hospital status is approved, the effective date of approval of sole community hospital status is the day following the expiration date of the MDH program if the hospital-

(A) Applies for classification as a sole community hospital prior to 30 days before the expiration of the MDH program; and

(B) Requests that sole community hospital status be effective with the expiration of the MDH program.
