
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.92 Special treatment: Sole community hospitals.
####### Duration of classification.

(3)(i) An approved classification as a sole community hospital remains in effect without need for reapproval unless there is a change in the circumstances under which the classification was approved. An approved sole community hospital must notify the MAC if any change that is specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section occurs. If CMS determines that a sole community hospital failed to comply with this requirement, CMS will cancel the hospital's classification as a sole community hospital effective with the date that the hospital no longer met the criteria for such classification, consistent with the provisions of ยง 405.1885 of this chapter.

(ii) A sole community hospital must report the following to the MAC within 30 days of the event:

(A) The opening of a new hospital in its service area.

(B) The opening of a new road between itself and a like provider within 35 miles.

(C) An increase in the number of beds to more than 50 if the hospital qualifies as a sole community hospital under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(D) Its geographic classification changes.

(E) Any changes to the driving conditions that result in a decrease in the amount of travel time between itself and a like provider if the hospital qualifies as a sole community hospital under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(iii) A sole community hospital must report to the MAC if it becomes aware of any change that would affect its classification as a sole community hospital beyond the events listed in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section within 30 days of the event. If CMS determines that a sole community hospital has failed to comply with this requirement, CMS will cancel the hospital's classification as a sole community hospital effective with the date the hospital became aware of the event that resulted in the sole community hospital no longer meeting the criteria for such classification, consistent with the provisions of ยง 405.1885 of this chapter.

(iv) A sole community hospital must report to the MAC any factor or information that could have affected its initial classification as a sole community hospital.

(A) If CMS determines that a sole community hospital has failed to comply with the requirement of paragraph ((b)(3)(iv) of this section, CMS may cancel the hospital's classification as a sole community hospital effective with the date the hospital failed to meet the criteria for such classification, consistent with the provisions of ยง 405.1885 of this chapter.

(B) Effective on or after October 1, 2012, if a hospital reports to CMS any factor or information that could have affected its initial determination and CMS determines that the hospital should not have qualified for sole community hospital status, CMS will cancel the sole community hospital status effective 30 days from the date of the determination.
