
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.96 Special treatment: Referral centers.
####### Criteria for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983.

(b)The hospital meets either of the following criteria:

(1) The hospital is located in a rural area (as defined in subpart D of this part) and has the following number of beds, as determined under the provisions of ยง 412.105(b) available for use:

(i) Effective for discharges occurring before April 1, 1988, the hospital has 500 or more beds.

(ii) Effective for discharges occurring on or after April 1, 1988, the hospital has 275 or more beds during its most recently completed cost reporting period unless the hospital submits written documentation with its application that its bed count has changed since the close of its most recently completed cost reporting period for one or more of the following reasons:

(A) Merger of two or more hospitals.

(B) Reopening of acute care beds previously closed for renovation.

(C) Transfer to the prospective payment system of acute care beds previously classified as part of an excluded unit.

(D) Expansion of acute care beds available for use and permanently maintained for lodging inpatients, excluding beds in corridors and other temporary beds.

(2) The hospital shows that-(i) At least 50 percent of its Medicare patients are referred from other hospitals or from physicians not on the staff of the hospital; and

(ii) At least 60 percent of the hospital's Medicare patients live more than 25 miles from the hospital, and at least 60 percent of all the services that the hospital furnishes to Medicare beneficiaries are furnished to beneficiaries who live more than 25 miles from the hospital.
