
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.101 Special treatment: Inpatient hospital payment adjustment for low-volume hospitals.
####### General considerations.

(b)(1) CMS provides an additional payment to a qualifying hospital for the higher incremental costs associated with a low volume of discharges. The amount of any additional payment for a qualifying hospital is calculated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) In order to qualify for this adjustment, a hospital must meet the following criteria, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section:

(i) For FY 2005 through FY 2010 and FY 2023 and subsequent fiscal years, a hospital must have fewer than 200 total discharges, which includes Medicare and non-Medicare discharges, during the fiscal year, based on the hospital's most recently submitted cost report, and be located more than 25 road miles (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) from the nearest "subsection (d)" (section 1886(d) of the Act) hospital.

(ii) For FY 2011 through FY 2018, a hospital must have fewer than 1,600 Medicare discharges, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, during the fiscal year, based on the hospital's Medicare discharges from the most recently available MedPAR data as determined by CMS, and be located more than 15 road miles, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, from the nearest "subsection (d)" (section 1886(d) of the Act) hospital.

(iii) For FY 2019 through FY 2022, a hospital must have fewer than 3,800 total discharges, which includes Medicare and non-Medicare discharges, during the fiscal year, based on the hospital's most recently submitted cost report, and be located more than 15 road miles (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) from the nearest "subsection (d)" (section 1886(d) of the Act) hospital.

(3) In order to qualify for the adjustment, a hospital must provide its fiscal intermediary or Medicare administrative contractor with sufficient evidence that it meets the distance requirement specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The fiscal intermediary or Medicare administrative contractor will base its determination of whether the distance requirement is satisfied upon the evidence presented by the hospital and other relevant evidence, such as maps, mapping software, and inquiries to State and local police, transportation officials, or other government officials.
