
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.104 Special treatment: Hospitals with high percentage of ESRD discharges.
####### Additional payment.

(b)A hospital that meets the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section is paid an additional payment for each ESRD beneficiary discharge except those excluded under paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) The payment is based on the estimated weekly cost of dialysis and the average length of stay of ESRD beneficiaries for the hospital.

(2) The estimated weekly cost of dialysis is the average number of dialysis sessions furnished per week during the 12-month period that ended June 30, 1983 multiplied by the average cost of dialysis for the same period.

(3) The average cost of dialysis includes only those costs determined to be directly related to the dialysis service. (These costs include salary, employee health and welfare, drugs, supplies, and laboratory services.)

(4) The average cost of dialysis is reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at the time the composite rate reimbursement for outpatient dialysis is reviewed.

(5) The payment to a hospital equals the average length of stay of ESRD beneficiaries in the hospital, expressed as a ratio to one week, times the estimated weekly cost of dialysis multiplied by the number of ESRD beneficiary discharges except for those excluded under paragraph (a) of this section. This payment is made only on the Federal portion of the payment rate.
