
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.105 Special treatment: Hospitals that incur indirect costs for graduate medical education programs.
####### Step three.

(3)The factor derived from completing steps one and two is multiplied by "c", and where "c" is equal to the following:

(i) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1988, and before October 1, 1997, 1.89.

(ii) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 1998, 1.72.

(iii) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 1999, 1.6.

(iv) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 2000, 1.47.

(A) Each hospital receives an amount that is equal in the aggregate to the difference between the amount of payments made to the hospital if "c" equaled 1.6, rather than 1.47.

(B) The payment of this amount will not affect any other payments, determinations, or budget neutrality adjustments.

(v) For fiscal year 2001-

(A) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2000 and before April 1, 2001, 1.54.

(B) For discharges occurring on or after April 1, 2001 and before October 1, 2001, the adjustment factor is determined as if "c" equaled 1.66, rather than 1.54. This payment increase will not apply to discharges occurring after fiscal year 2001 and will not be taken into account in calculating the payment amounts applicable for discharges occurring after fiscal year 2001.

(vi) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 2002, 1.6.

(vii) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2002 and before April 1, 2004, 1.35.

(viii) For discharges occurring on or after April 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2004, 1.47.

(ix) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 2005, 1.42.

(x) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 2006, 1.37.

(xi) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 2007, 1.32.

(xii) For discharges occurring during fiscal year 2008 and thereafter, 1.35.

(4) For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2005, with respect to FTE residents added as a result of increases in the FTE resident cap under paragraph (f)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, the factor derived from completing steps one and two is multiplied by 'c', where 'c' is equal to 0.66.
