
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### § 412.105 Special treatment: Hospitals that incur indirect costs for graduate medical education programs.
####### 2

() The Annual Report and Reference Handbook published by the American Board of Medical Specialties.

(C) Is approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) as a fellowship program in geriatric medicine.

(D) Is a program that would be accredited except for the accrediting agency's reliance upon an accreditation standard that requires an entity to perform an induced abortion or require, provide, or refer for training in the performance of induced abortions, or make arrangements for such training, regardless of whether the standard provides exceptions or exemptions.

(ii) In order to be counted, the resident must be assigned to one of the following areas:

(A) The portion of the hospital subject to the hospital inpatient prospective payment system.

(B) The outpatient department of a hospital that meets provider-based status as defined at § 413.65(a)(2) of this subchapter.

(C) The portions of a hospital located in Puerto Rico that are subject to the hospital inpatient prospective payment system, including off-campus outpatient departments that meet provider-based status as defined at § 413.65(a)(2) of this subchapter.

(D) The portions of a hospital that are reimbursed under a reimbursement system authorized under section 1814(b)(3) of the Act.

(E) Effective for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997, the time spent by a resident in a nonprovider setting in patient care activities, as defined in § 413.75(b) of this subchapter, under an approved medical residency training program is counted towards the determination of full-time equivalency if the criteria set forth in § 413.78(c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this subchapter, as applicable, are met.

(iii)(A) Full-time equivalent status is based on the total time necessary to fill a residency slot. No individual may be counted as more than one full-time equivalent. If a resident is assigned to more than one hospital, the resident counts as a partial full-time equivalent based on the proportion of time worked in any areas of the hospital listed in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section to the total time worked by the resident. A hospital cannot claim the time spent by residents training at another hospital, unless the exception provided at § 413.78(i) of this chapter applies. A part-time resident or one working in an area of the hospital other than those listed under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section (such as a freestanding family practice center or an excluded hospital unit) would be counted as a partial full-time equivalent based on the proportion of time assigned to an area of the hospital listed in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, compared to the total time necessary to fill a full-time residency slot.

(B) The time spent by a resident in research that is not associated with the treatment or diagnosis of a particular patient is not countable.

(C) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 1983, except for research activities described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, the time a resident is training in an approved medical residency program in a hospital setting, as described in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii)(A) through (f)(1)(ii)(D) of this section, must be spent in either patient care activities, as defined in § 413.75(b) of this subchapter, or in nonpatient care activities, such as didactic conferences and seminars, to be counted. This provision may not be applied in a manner that would require the reopening of settled cost reports, except those cost reports on which, as of March 23, 2010, there is a jurisdictionally proper appeal pending on direct GME or IME payments.

(D) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 1983, the time spent by a resident in an approved medical residency program on vacation, sick leave, or other approved leave that does not prolong the total time the resident is participating in the approved program beyond the normal duration of the program is countable. This provision may not be applied in a manner that would require the reopening of settled cost reports, except those cost reports on which, as of March 23, 2010, there is a jurisdictionally proper appeal pending on direct GME or IME payments.

(iv)(A) Effective for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997, the total number of FTE residents in the fields of allopathic and osteopathic medicine in either a hospital or a nonhospital setting that meets the criteria listed in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section may not exceed the number of such FTE residents in the hospital (or, in the case of a hospital located in a rural area, effective for discharges occurring on or after April 1, 2000, 130 percent of that number) with respect to the hospital's most recent cost reporting period ending on or before December 31, 1996.
