
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### § 412.108 Special treatment: Medicare-dependent, small rural hospitals.
####### General considerations.

(1)For cost reporting periods beginning on or after April 1, 1990, and ending before October 1, 1994, or for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997, and before October 1, 2022, a hospital is classified as a Medicare-dependent, small rural hospital if it meets all of the following conditions:

(i) It is located in a rural area (as defined in subpart D of this part) or it is located in a State with no rural area and satisfies any of the criteria under § 412.103(a)(1) or (3) or under § 412.103(a)(2) as of January 1, 2018.

(ii) The hospital has 100 or fewer beds as defined in § 412.105(b) during the cost reporting period.

(iii) The hospital is not also classified as a sole community hospital under § 412.92.

(iv) At least 60 percent of the hospital's inpatient days or discharges were attributable to individuals entitled to Medicare Part A benefits during the hospital's cost reporting period or periods as follows, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section:

(A) The hospital's cost reporting period ending on or after September 30, 1987 and before September 30, 1988.

(B) If the hospital does not have a cost reporting period that meets the criterion set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section, the hospital's cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1986, and before October 1, 1987.

(C) At least two of the last three most recent audited cost reporting periods for which the Secretary has a settled cost report.

(v) If the cost reporting period determined under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section is for less than 12 months, the hospital's most recent 12-month or longer cost reporting period before the short period is used.
