
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.108 Special treatment: Medicare-dependent, small rural hospitals.
####### Classification procedures.

(b)(1) The MAC determines whether a hospital meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) A hospital must submit a written request along with qualifying documentation to its fiscal intermediary to be considered for MDH status based on the criterion under paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.

(3) The MAC will make its determination and notify the hospital within 90 days from the date that it receives the hospital's request and all of the required documentation.

(4) For applications received on or before September 30, 2018, a determination of MDH status made by the MAC is effective 30 days after the date the MAC provides written notification to the hospital. For applications received on or after October 1, 2018, a determination of MDH status made by the MAC is effective as of the date the MAC receives the complete application. An approved MDH status determination remains in effect unless there is a change in the circumstances under which the status was approved.

(i) An approved MDH must notify the MAC if any change occurs that is specified in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section occurs. If CMS determines that an MDH failed to comply with this requirement, CMS will cancel the hospital's classification as an MDH effective with the date that the hospital no longer met the criteria for such status, consistent with the provisions of ยง 405.1885 of this chapter.

(ii) An MDH must report the following to the MAC within 30 days of the event:

(A) The number of beds increases to more than 100.

(B) Its geographic classification changes.

(iii) An MDH must report to the MAC if it becomes aware of any change that would affect its classification as an MDH beyond the events listed in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section within 30 days of the event. If CMS determines that an MDH has failed to comply with this requirement, CMS will cancel the hospital's classification as an MDH effective with the date the hospital became aware of the event that resulted in the MDH no longer meeting the criteria for such classification, consistent with the provisions of ยง 405.1885 of this chapter.

(5) The MAC will evaluate on an ongoing basis, whether or not a hospital continues to qualify for MDH status. This evaluation includes an ongoing review to ensure that the hospital continues to meet all of the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(6) If the MAC determines that a hospital no longer qualifies for MDH status, the change in status will become effective 30 days after the date the MAC provides written notification to the hospital.

(7) A hospital may reapply for MDH status following its disqualification only after it has completed another cost reporting period that has been audited and settled. The hospital must reapply for MDH status in writing to its MAC and submit the required documentation.

(8) If a hospital disagrees with an MAC's determination regarding the hospital's initial or ongoing MDH status, the hospital may notify its MAC and submit other documentable evidence to support its claim that it meets the MDH qualifying criteria.

(9) The MAC's initial and ongoing determination is subject to review under subpart R of Part 405 of this chapter. The time required by the MAC to review the request is considered good cause for granting an extension of the time limit for the hospital to apply for that review.
