
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### § 412.108 Special treatment: Medicare-dependent, small rural hospitals.
####### Payment methodology.

(c)A hospital that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section is paid for its inpatient operating costs the sum of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.

(1) The Federal payment rate applicable to the hospital, as determined under subpart D of this part, subject to the regional floor defined in § 412.70(c)(6).

(2) The amount, if any, determined as follows:

(i) For discharges occurring during the first three 12-month cost reporting periods that begin on or after April 1, 1990, 100 percent of the amount that the Federal rate determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is exceeded by the higher of the following:

(A) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.73.

(B) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.75.

(ii) For discharges occurring during any subsequent cost reporting period (or portion thereof) and before October 1, 1994, and for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997 and before October 1, 2006, 50 percent of the amount that the Federal rate determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is exceeded by the higher of the following:

(A) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.73.

(B) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.75.

(iii) For discharges occurring during cost reporting periods (or portions thereof) beginning on or after October 1, 2006, and before October 1, 2022, 75 percent of the amount that the Federal rate determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is exceeded by the highest of the following:

(A) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.73.

(B) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.75.

(C) The hospital-specific rate as determined under § 412.79.
