
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Special Treatment of Certain Facilities Under the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### ยง 412.108 Special treatment: Medicare-dependent, small rural hospitals.
####### Additional payments to hospitals experiencing a significant volume decrease.

(d)(1) CMS provides for a payment adjustment for a Medicare-dependent, small rural hospital for any cost reporting period during which the hospital experiences, due to circumstances as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a more than 5 percent decrease in its total inpatient discharges as compared to its immediately preceding cost reporting period. If either the cost reporting period in question or the immediately preceding cost reporting period is other than a 12-month cost reporting period, the MAC must convert the discharges to a monthly figure and multiply this figure by 12 to estimate the total number of discharges for a 12-month cost reporting period.

(2) To qualify for a payment adjustment on the basis of a decrease in discharges, a Medicare-dependent, small rural hospital must submit its request no later than 180 days after the date on the MAC's Notice of Amount of Program Reimbursement and it must-

(i) Submit to the MAC documentation demonstrating the size of the decrease in discharges and the resulting effect on per discharge costs; and

(ii) Show that the decrease is due to circumstances beyond the hospital's control.

(3) The MAC determines a lump sum adjustment amount in accordance with the methodology set forth in ยง 412.92(e)(3).

(i) In determining the adjustment amount, the MAC considers-

(A) The individual hospital's needs and circumstances, including the reasonable cost of maintaining necessary core staff and services in view of minimum staffing requirements imposed by State agencies;

(B) The hospital's fixed (and semi-fixed) costs, other than those costs paid on a reasonable cost basis under part 413 of this chapter; and

(C) The length of time the hospital has experienced a decrease in utilization.

(ii) The MAC makes its determination within 180 days from the date it receives the hospital's request and all other necessary information.

(iii) The MAC determination is subject to review under subpart R of part 405 of this chapter. The time required by the MAC to review the request is considered good cause for granting an extension of the time limit for the hospital to apply for that review.
