
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Payments to Hospitals Under the Prospective Payment Systems
###### ยง 412.113 Other payments.
####### Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell acquisition.

(e)For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2020, in the case of a subsection (d) hospital that furnishes an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant to an individual, payment to such hospital for hematopoietic stem cell acquisition costs is made on a reasonable cost basis.

(1) An allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant is the intravenous infusion of hematopoietic cells derived from bone marrow, peripheral blood stem cells, or cord blood, but not including embryonic stem cells, of a donor to an individual that are or may be used to restore hematopoietic function in such individual having an inherited or acquired deficiency or defect.

(2) Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell acquisition costs recognized under this paragraph (e) are costs of acquiring hematopoietic stem cells from a donor. These costs are as follows:

(i) Registry fees from a national donor registry described in 42 U.S.C. 274k, if applicable, for stem cells from an unrelated donor.

(ii) Tissue typing of donor and recipient.

(iii) Donor evaluation.

(iv) Physician pre-admission/pre-procedure donor evaluation services.

(v) Costs associated with the collection procedure (for example, general routine and special care services, procedure/operating room and other ancillary services, apheresis services), and transportation costs of stem cells if the recipient hospital incurred or paid such costs.

(vi) Post-operative/post-procedure evaluation of donor.

(vii) Preparation and processing of stem cells derived from bone marrow, peripheral blood stem cells, or cord blood (but not including embryonic stem cells).

(3) A subsection (d) hospital that furnishes inpatient allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplants is required to hold all allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell acquisition charges and bill them to Medicare using the appropriate revenue code, when the transplant occurs.

(4) A subsection (d) hospital must maintain an itemized statement that identifies, for all costs defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the services furnished in collecting hematopoietic stem cells including all invoices or statements for purchased services for all donors and their service charges. Records must be for the person receiving the services (donor or recipient; for all donor sources, the hospital must identify the prospective recipient), and the recipient's Medicare beneficiary identification number.

(f) Additional resource costs of domestic National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health approved surgical N95 respirators. (1) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2023, a payment adjustment to a hospital for the additional resource costs of domestic National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health approved surgical N95 respirators is made as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(2) The payment adjustment is based on the estimated difference in the reasonable cost incurred by the hospital for domestic National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health approved surgical N95 respirators purchased during the cost reporting period as compared to other National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health approved surgical N95 respirators purchased during the cost reporting period.
