
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Payments to Hospitals Under the Prospective Payment Systems
###### § 412.116 Method of payment.
####### Amount of payment.

(3)(i) The biweekly interim payment amount is based on the total estimated Medicare discharges for the reporting period multiplied by the hospital's estimated average prospective payment amount as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this paragraph. These interim payments are reviewed at least twice during the reporting period and adjusted if necessary. Fewer reviews may be necessary if a hospital receives interim payments for less than a full reporting period.

(ii) For purposes of determining periodic interim payments under this paragraph, a hospital's estimated average prospective payment amount is computed as follows:

(A) If a hospital has no payment experience under the prospective payment system for operating costs, the intermediary computes the hospital's estimated average prospective payment amount for operating costs by multiplying its payment rates as determined under § 412.70(c), but without adjustment by a DRG weighting factor, by the hospital's case-mix index, and subtracting from this amount estimated deductibles and coinsurance.

(B) Effective for cost-reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991, the intermediary computes a hospital's estimated average prospective payment amount for capital-related costs by multiplying its prospective payment rate as determined under § 412.340 or § 412.344(a), as applicable, and under § 412.308 for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2001 but without adjustment by a DRG weighting factor, by the hospital's case-mix index. The intermediary may take into account estimated additional payments per discharge under § 412.348. If the hospital is paid under § 412.344(a)(1), the intermediary includes an estimated payment for old capital costs per discharge.

(C) If a hospital has payment experience under the prospective payment system for operating costs, and, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991, for inpatient capital-related costs, the intermediary computes a hospital's estimated average prospective payment amount for operating costs and capital-related costs based on that payment experience, adjusted for projected changes, and subtracts from this amount estimated deductibles and coinsurance.
