
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Adjustments to the Base Operating DRG Payment Amounts Under the Prospective Payment Systems for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### Incentive Payments Under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Program
####### ยง 412.167 Appeal under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing (VBP) Program.
######## Limitations on review.

(d)There is no administrative or judicial review of the following:

(1) The methodology used to determine the amount of the value-based incentive payment under section 1886(o)(6) of the Act and the determination of such amount.

(2) The determination of the amount of funding available for value-based incentive payments under section 1886(o)(7)(A) of the Act and the payment reduction under section 1886(o)(7)(B)(i) of the Act.

(3) The establishment of the performance standards under section 1886(o)(3) of the Act and the performance period under section 1886(o)(4) of the Act.

(4) The measures specified under section 1886(b)(3)(B)(viii) of the Act and the measures selected under section 1886(o)(2) of the Act.

(5) The methodology developed under section 1886(o)(5) of the Act that is used to calculate hospital performance scores and the calculation of such scores.

(6) The validation methodology that is specified under section 1886(b)(3)(B)(viii)(XI) of the Act.
