
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Adjustments to the Base Operating DRG Payment Amounts Under the Prospective Payment Systems for Inpatient Operating Costs
###### Incentive Payments Under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Program
####### § 412.168 Special rules for FY 2022 and FY 2023.-

(a) This section sets forth the scoring and payment methodology for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023Hospital VBP Program.

(b) CMS calculates a measure rate for all measures selected under § 412.164(a) for fiscal year 2022 but only applies § 412.165(a) to the measures included in the Clinical Outcomes Domain for that fiscal year, which are the following:

(1) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) Hospitalization (MORT-30-AMI).

(2) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Heart Failure (HF) Hospitalization (MORT-30-HF).

(3) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Pneumonia Hospitalization (MORT-30-PN (updated cohort)).

(4) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Hospitalization (MORT-30-COPD).

(5) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery (MORT-30-CABG).

(6) Hospital-Level Risk-Standardized Complication Rate Following Elective Primary Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) and/or Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) (COMP-HIP-KNEE).

(c) CMS calculates a domain score for the measures described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for hospitals that report the minimum number of measures in the Clinical Outcomes Domain.

(d) CMS does not award a Total Performance Score to any hospital.

(e) The total amount available for value-based incentive payments for fiscal year 2022 is equal to the total amount of base-operating DRG payment reductions for that fiscal year, as estimated by the Secretary.

(f) CMS awards value-based incentive payment percentages (as defined in § 412.160) for all hospitals to ensure that each hospital receives an incentive payment amount equal to the amount of the reduction made to its base-operating DRG payment amounts.

(g) CMS calculates a measure rate for all measures selected under § 412.164(a) for fiscal year 2023 but only applies § 412.165(a) to the measures included in the Clinical Outcomes Domain and the Efficiency and Cost Reduction Domain for that fiscal year, which are the following:

(1) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) Hospitalization (MORT-30-AMI).

(2) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Heart Failure (HF) Hospitalization (MORT-30-HF).

(3) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Pneumonia Hospitalization (MORT-30-PN (updated cohort)).

(4) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Hospitalization (MORT-30-COPD).

(5) Hospital 30-Day, All-Cause, Risk-Standardized Mortality Rate Following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery (MORT-30-CABG).

(6) Hospital-Level Risk-Standardized Complication Rate Following Elective Primary Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) and/or Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) (COMP-HIP-KNEE).

(7) Medicare Spending Per Beneficiary (MSPB)-Hospital.

(h) CMS calculates-

(1) A Clinical Outcomes Domain score for fiscal year 2023 for hospitals that report the minimum number of cases and measures with respect to the measures described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section; and

(2) An Efficiency and Cost Reduction Domain score for fiscal year 2023 for hospitals that report the minimum number of cases with respect to the measure described in paragraph (g)(7) of this section.

(i) CMS does not award a Total Performance Score to any hospital for fiscal year 2023.

(j) The total amount available for value-based incentive payments for fiscal year 2023 is equal to the total amount of base-operating DRG payment reductions for that fiscal year, as estimated by the Secretary.

(k) CMS awards a value-based incentive payment percentage (as defined in § 412.160) for fiscal year 2023 to all hospitals to ensure that each hospital receives a value-based incentive payment amount equal to the amount of the reduction made to its base-operating DRG payment amounts.
