
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - The Medicare Geographic Classification Review Board
###### Criteria and Conditions for Redesignation
####### ยง 412.230 Criteria for an individual hospital seeking redesignation to another rural area or an urban area.
######## Special rules for sole community hospitals and rural referral centers.

(3)To be redesignated under the special rules in this paragraph, a hospital must be approved as a sole community hospital or a rural referral center as of the date of the MGCRB's review.

(i) A hospital that is approved as a rural referral center or a sole community hospital, or both, does not have to demonstrate a close proximity to the area to which it seeks redesignation.

(ii) If a hospital that is approved as a rural referral center or a sole community hospital, or both, qualifies for urban redesignation, it is redesignated to the urban area that is closest to the hospital or to the hospital's geographic home area. If the hospital is closer to another rural area than to any urban area, it may seek redesignation to either the closest rural area or the closest urban area.

(iii) If a sole community hospital or rural referral center loses its special status as a result of redesignation, the hospital is considered to retain its special status for the purpose of applicability of the special rules in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(iv) A hospital that is redesignated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section may not be redesignated in the same fiscal year under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
