
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - The Medicare Geographic Classification Review Board
###### Criteria and Conditions for Redesignation
####### ยง 412.230 Criteria for an individual hospital seeking redesignation to another rural area or an urban area.
######## 2

() Once a hospital has accumulated at least 1 year of wage data in the applicable 3-year average hourly wage period used by the MGCRB, the hospital is eligible to apply for reclassification based on those data.

(B) For data for other hospitals, the hospital must provide a weighted 3-year average of the average hourly wage in the area in which the hospital is located and a weighted 3-year average of the average hourly wage in the area to which the hospital seeks reclassification. The wage data are taken from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes.

(iii) For applications submitted for reclassifications effective in FYs 2006 through 2008, a campus of a multicampus hospital may seek reclassification only to a CBSA in which another campus(es) is located. If the campus is seeking reclassification to a CBSA in which another campus(es) is located, as part of its reclassification request, the requesting entity must submit the composite wage data for the entire multicampus hospital as its hospital-specific data.

(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), if a new owner does not accept assignment of the existing hospital's provider agreement in accordance with ยง 489.18 of this chapter, the hospital will be treated as a new provider with a new provider number. In this case, the wage data associated with the previous hospital's provider number cannot be used in calculating the new hospital's 3-year average hourly wage. Once a new hospital has accumulated at least 1 year of wage data, it is eligible to apply for reclassification on the basis of those data.

(v) For applications submitted for reclassification effective in FY 2009 and thereafter, a campus of a multicampus hospital that is located in a geographic area different from the area associated with the provider number of the entire multicampus hospital may seek reclassification to another CBSA using the composite wage data of the entire multicampus hospital as its hospital-specific data.
