
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - The Medicare Geographic Classification Review Board
###### Criteria and Conditions for Redesignation
####### ยง 412.232 Criteria for all hospitals in a rural county seeking urban redesignation.
######## Criteria.

(a)For all hospitals in a rural county to be redesignated to an urban area, the following conditions must be met:

(1) The county in which the hospitals are located-

(i) For fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2006, must be adjacent to the MSA or NECMA to which they seek redesignation.

(ii) For fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2006, must be adjacent to the MSA to which they seek redesignation.

(2) All hospitals in a rural county must apply for redesignation as a group.

(3) The hospitals must demonstrate that the rural county in which they are located currently meets the criteria for metropolitan character under paragraph (b) of this section and the wage criteria under paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) The hospital may be redesignated only if one of the following conditions is met:

(i) The prereclassified average hourly wage for the area to which they seek redesignation is higher than the prereclassified average hourly wage for the area in which they are currently located.

(ii) For fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2006, the standardized amount for the area to which they seek redesignation is higher than the standardized amount for the area in which they are located.
