
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - The Medicare Geographic Classification Review Board
###### Criteria and Conditions for Redesignation
####### ยง 412.232 Criteria for all hospitals in a rural county seeking urban redesignation.
######## 2

() Occupational-mix data to demonstrate the average occupational mix for each employment category in the adjacent area. Occupational-mix data can be obtained from surveys conducted by the American Hospital Association.

(ii) For redesignations effective beginning FY 2003:

(A) For hospital-specific data, the hospital must provide a weighted 3-year average of its average hourly wages using data from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes.

(B) For data for other hospitals, the hospital must provide a weighted 3-year average of the average hourly wage in the area in which the hospital is located and a weighted 3-year average of the average hourly wage in the area to which the hospital seeks reclassification. The wage data are taken from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes.

(iii) For redesignations effective beginning FY 2009, the wage data of an individual campus of a multicampus hospital will be determined by allocating, on the basis of full-time equivalent staff or discharges, the wage data of the entire multicampus hospital between or among the individual campuses of the multicampus hospital. The provision of this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) applies only in the case where an individual campus is located in a geographic area different from the area associated with the provider number of the entire multicampus hospital.
