
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 412.302 Introduction to capital costs.
######## Old capital costs.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section with respect to capital obligations that qualify for recognition as old capital, old capital costs are allowable capital-related costs for land and depreciable assets that were put in use for patient care on or before December 31, 1990. However, for a new hospital as defined in ยง 412.300(b), old capital costs are defined as those allowable capital-related costs for land and depreciable assets that were put in use for patient care on or before the later of December 31, 1990 or the last day of the hospital's base year cost reporting period under ยง 412.328(a)(2). Old capital costs include the following:

(1) Allowable depreciation on assets based on the useful life guidelines used to determine depreciation expense in the hospital's base period.

(2) Allowable capital-related interest expense. Except as provided below, the amount of allowable capital-related interest expense that will be recognized as old capital is limited to the amount the hospital was legally obligated to pay as of December 31, 1990. Any allowable interest expense in excess of this limitation will be recognized as new capital.

(i) An increase in interest expense is recognized if the increase is due to periodic fluctuations of rates in variable interest rate loans or at the time of conversion from a variable rate loan to a fixed rate loan when no other changes in the terms of the loan are made.

(ii) If the terms of a debt instrument are revised after December 31, 1990, the amount of interest that will be recognized as old capital during the transition cannot exceed the amount that would have been recognized during the same period prior to the revision of the debt instrument.

(iii) If short-term financing was used to acquire old capital assets and the debt is extended or "rolled-over", a portion of the extended debt will be recognized as old capital. The portion will equal the ratio of the net book value as of the beginning of the applicable cost reporting period for depreciable assets that were in use in the base year, to the net book value as of the beginning of the base year cost reporting period for those assets. The net book value for the base year will not be adjusted to exclude assets that have been fully depreciated or removed from service since the base year. If the debt is related to specific assets, the ratio will be determined based on the values for those assets. The ratio will exclude assets that were acquired with other identifiable debt instruments. For purposes of this paragraph, short term financing is a debt that becomes due in no later than the earlier of 5 years or half of the average useful life of the assets to which the debt is related.

(iv) If old capital indebtedness is commingled with new capital debt, the allowable interest expense will be apportioned to old capital costs based on the ratio of the portion of the loan principal related to old capital indebtedness to the total loan principal.

(v) Investment income, excluding income from funded depreciation accounts, is used to reduce old capital interest expense based on the ratio of total old capital interest expense to total allowable interest expense in each cost reporting period.

(3) Allowable capital-related lease and rental costs for land and depreciable assets that were obligated as of December 31, 1990.

(i) Lease renewals up to the annual lease payment level obligated as of December 31, 1990 are recognized provided the same asset remains in use, the asset has a useful life of at least 3 years, and the annual lease payment is $1,000 or more for each item or service.

(ii) If a hospital-owned asset is sold or given to another party and that same asset is then leased back by the hospital, the amount of allowable capital-related costs recognized as old capital costs is limited to the amount allowed for that asset in the last cost reporting period that it was owned by the hospital.

(iii) If an entire hospital is leased without assumption of the hospital's asset costs after December 31, 1990, the amount of allowable capital-related costs recognized as old capital costs is limited to the amount allowed for old capital costs in the base year or the last cost reporting period these costs were recognized under this subpart, whichever is later.

(4) The portion of allowable costs for other capital-related expenses (including but not limited to, taxes, insurance, license and royalty fees on depreciable assets) resulting from applying the ratio of the hospital's gross old asset value to total asset value in each cost reporting period.

(5) The appropriate portion of the capital-related costs of related organizations under ยง 413.17 that would be recognized as old capital costs if these costs had been incurred directly by the hospital.

(6) Obligated capital costs that are recognized as old capital costs in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(7) If a hospital had nonreimbursable costs applicable to an old capital asset as of December 31, 1990 that subsequently become allowable inpatient capital-related costs, the allowable costs for such an asset that are attributable to inpatient hospital services are recognized as old capital costs if a portion of the asset was in use for inpatient hospital care on December 31, 1990 and the costs meet all other provisions for recognition of old capital costs contained in this section.
