
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 412.302 Introduction to capital costs.
######## Extension of deadline.

(iv)CMS may extend the deadline in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, under which an asset must be put in use for patient care before October 1, 1994, to no later than September 30, 1996 for extraordinary circumstances beyond the hospital's control. Extraordinary circumstances include, but are not limited to, a construction strike or atypically severe weather that significantly delayed completion of a construction project. Normal construction delays do not constitute extraordinary circumstances.

(A) The hospital must submit its request for an extended deadline with documentation of the extraordinary circumstances by the later of January 1, 1993 or 180 days after the extraordinary circumstance.

(B) The intermediary reviews the request and verifies the hospital's documentation, and forwards the request to CMS within 60 days. Within 90 days, CMS notifies the intermediary of its decision and, if an extension is granted, of the revised deadline for putting the asset in use for patient care service.

(v) The hospital must submit to its intermediary the binding agreement and supporting documents that relate to the obligated capital expenditure by the later of October 1, 1992, or within 90 days after the start of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991. This documentation must include a project description (including details of any phased construction or financing) and an estimate of costs that were prepared no later than December 31, 1990.
