
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 412.302 Introduction to capital costs.
######## Lengthy certificate-of-need process.

(2)(i) If a hospital does not meet the criteria under paragraph (c)(1)(i) or paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, but meets all of the following criteria, the estimated cost for the project as of December 31, 1990 may be recognized as old capital costs:

(A) The hospital is required under State law to obtain preapproval of the capital project or acquisition by a designated State or local planning authority in the State in which it is located.

(B) The hospital filed an initial application for a certificate of need on or before December 31, 1989 that includes a detailed description of the project and its estimated cost and had not received approval or disapproval on or before September 30, 1990. If the hospital received conditional approval on or before September 30, 1990, the hospital's intermediary assesses the nature of the conditions. The hospital will be considered to have received approval for the project as of September 30, 1990 if the intermediary determines that the hospital received sufficient approval for the project to proceed without significant delay.

(C) The hospital expended the lesser of $750,000 or 10 percent of the estimated cost of the project on or before December 31, 1990; and

(D) The hospital put the asset into patient use on or before the later of September 30, 1996 or 4 years from the date the certificate of need was approved.

(ii) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(1) (iv) through (viii) of this section apply to projects that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
