
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 412.302 Introduction to capital costs.
######## Construction in process.

(3)(i) If a hospital that initiates construction on a capital project does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) or (c)(2)(i) of this section, the project costs may be recognized as old capital costs if all the following conditions are met:

(A) The hospital received any required certificate of need approval on or before December 31, 1990.

(B) The hospital's Board of Directors formally authorized the project with a detailed description of its scope and costs on or before December 31, 1990.

(C) The estimated cost of the project as of December 31, 1990 exceeds 5 percent of the hospital's total patient revenues during its base year.

(D) The capitalized cost that had been incurred for the project as of December 31, 1990 exceeded the lesser of $750,000 or 10 percent of the estimated project cost.

(E) The hospital began actual construction or renovation ("groundbreaking") on or before March 31, 1991.

(F) The project is completed before October 1, 1994.

(ii) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(1) (iv) through (viii) of this section apply to projects that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.
