
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### Basic Methodology for Determining the Federal Rate for Capital-Related Costs
####### ยง 412.308 Determining and updating the Federal rate.
######## Standard Federal rate.

(b)The standard Federal rate is used to determine the Federal rate for each fiscal year in accordance with the formula specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) CMS determines the standard Federal rate by adjusting the FY 1992 updated national average cost per discharge by a factor so that estimated aggregate payments based on the standard Federal rate adjusted by the payment adjustments described in ยง 412.312(b) equal estimated aggregate payments based solely on the national average cost per discharge.

(2) Effective FY 1994, the standard Federal rate used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is reduced by 7.4 percent.

(3) Effective FY 1996, the standard Federal rate used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is reduced by 0.28 percent to account for the effect of the revised policy for payment of transfers under ยง 412.4(d).

(4) Effective FY 1998, the unadjusted standard Federal capital payment rate in effect on September 30, 1997, used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is reduced by 15.68 percent.

(5) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997 through September 30, 2002, the unadjusted standard Federal capital payment rate as in effect on September 30, 1997, used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section is further reduced by 2.1 percent.

(6) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2002, the 2.1 percent reduction provided for under paragraph (b)(5) of this section is eliminated from the unadjusted standard Federal rate in effect on September 30, 2002, used to determine the Federal rate each year under paragraph (c) of this section.
