
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for Capital-Related Costs
####### ยง 412.328 Determining and updating the hospital-specific rate.
######## Redetermination of hospital-specific rate,General.

(f)-(1)(i) Upon request by a hospital, the intermediary redetermines the hospital-specific rate to reflect an increase in old capital costs as determined in a cost reporting period subsequent to the base year. An increase in Medicare old capital cost per discharge that is related solely to a decline in utilization is not recognized as an increase in old capital costs for purposes of this section. New capital costs are excluded from the redetermination of the hospital-specific rate.

(ii) The hospital may request redetermination for any cost reporting period beginning subsequent to the base period but no later than the later of the hospital's cost reporting period beginning in FY 1994 or the cost reporting period beginning after obligated capital that is recognized as old capital under ยง 412.302(b) is put in use.

(iii) The hospital must request a redetermination in writing no later than the date the cost report must be filed with the hospital's intermediary for the first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991 or the cost reporting period that will serve as the new base period, whichever is later. The hospital's redetermination request must include the cost report for the new base period and an estimate of the revised hospital-specific rate indicating that the new rate exceeds the hospital's current hospital-specific rate.
