
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for Capital-Related Costs
####### ยง 412.336 Transition period payment methodologies.
######## Final determination.

(2)(i) The intermediary makes a final determination of the applicable payment methodology based on its final determination of the hospital's hospital-specific rate. The final determination of the applicable payment methodology is effective retroactively to the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991.

(ii) If the hospital-specific rate is redetermined in accordance with ยง 412.328(f), the intermediary makes a new determination of the applicable payment methodology. The new determination is effective retroactively to the beginning of the new base period.

(iii) If the hospital-specific rate is revised under ยง 412.328(g) as a result of administrative or judicial review, the intermediary makes a new determination of the applicable payment methodology. The new determination is effective retroactively to the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991 or to the beginning of the new base period.
