
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for Capital-Related Costs
####### § 412.336 Transition period payment methodologies.
######## Special Rule for Redetermination of Hospital Payment Methodology.

(d)For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1993, the intermediary redetermines the hospital payment methodologies to take into account the reduction to the standard Federal rate provided in § 412.308(b)(2):

(1) For a hospital paid under the fully prospective payment methodology in the last hospital cost reporting period beginning before October 1, 1993, the intermediary compares the hospital's FY 1994 hospital-specific rate with the hospital's FY 1994 Federal rate (after taking into account the estimated effect of the payment adjustments and outlier payments).

(i) A hospital with a FY 1994 hospital-specific rate that is above the FY 1994 adjusted Federal rate is paid under the hold-harmless payment methodology described in § 412.344.

(ii) Subject to the provisions of § 412.328(f), a hospital with a FY 1994 hospital-specific rate that is below the FY 1994 adjusted Federal rate continues to be paid under the fully prospective payment methodology as described in § 412.340.

(iii) The intermediary notifies the hospital of the new determination of the hospital's payment methodology within 90 days of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1993. The new determination is effective to the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1993.

(2) A hospital paid under the hold-harmless payment methodology in the last cost reporting period beginning before October 1, 1993, will continue to be paid in accordance with the provisions of § 412.344.
