
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for Capital-Related Costs
####### § 412.348 Exception payments.
######## Minimum payment level by class of hospital.

(c)(1) CMS establishes a minimum payment level by class of hospital. The minimum payment level for a hospital will equal a fixed percentage of the hospital's capital-related costs. The minimum payment levels may be no greater than the percentages of allowable capital-related costs that follow:

(i) 90 percent for sole community hospitals.

(ii) 80 percent for hospitals located in an urban area for purposes of § 412.63(a) with at least 100 beds, as determined under § 412.105(b), that have a disproportionate share patient percentage of at least 20.2 percent as determined under § 412.106(b), and for hospitals located in an urban area for purposes of § 412.63(a) with at least 100 beds that qualify for disproportionate share payments under § 412.106(c)(2).

(iii) 70 percent for all other hospitals.

(2) When it is necessary to adjust the minimum payment levels set by class of hospitals specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (g)(6) of this section, CMS will adjust those levels for each class of hospitals in one percentage point increments as necessary to satisfy the requirement specified in paragraph (h) of this section that total estimated payments under the exception process not exceed 10 percent of the total estimated capital prospective payments (exclusive of hold-harmless payments for old capital) for the same fiscal year.
