
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Capital Costs
###### Determination of Transition Period Payment Rates for Capital-Related Costs
####### ยง 412.348 Exception payments.
######## Additional payment exception for extraordinary circumstances.

(f)(1) A hospital may request an additional payment if the hospital incurs unanticipated capital expenditures in excess of $5 million (net of proceeds from other payment sources such as insurance, litigation decisions and other State, local or Federal government funding programs) due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the hospital's control. Extraordinary circumstances include, but are not limited to, a flood, fire, or earthquake.

(2) A hospital must apply to its CMS Regional Office by the later of October 1, 1992 or 180 days after the extraordinary circumstance causing the unanticipated expenditures for a determination by CMS of whether the hospital is eligible for an additional payment based on the nature of the circumstances and the amount of financial loss documented by the hospital.

(3) Except for sole community hospitals, the additional payment is based on a minimum payment amount of 85 percent for Medicare's share of allowable capital-related costs attributable to the extraordinary circumstances. For sole community hospitals, the minimum payment amount is 100 percent.

(4) The minimum payment level applicable under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is adjusted to take into account the 85 percent minimum payment level (100 percent for sole community hospitals) under paragraph (f)(3) of this section for the unanticipated capital-related costs. The additional payment for the cost reporting period equals the difference between the adjusted minimum payment level and the capital payments the hospital would otherwise receive less any offset amount determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
