
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Services of Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities
###### § 412.404 Conditions for payment under the prospective payment system for inpatient hospital services of psychiatric facilities.
####### Furnishing of inpatient hospital services directly or under arrangement.

(d)(1) Subject to the provisions of § 412.422, the applicable payments made under this subpart are payment in full for all inpatient hospital services, as specified in § 409.10 of this chapter. Hospital inpatient services do not include the following:

(i) Physicians' services that meet the requirements of § 415.102(a) of this chapter for payment on a fee schedule basis.

(ii) Physician assistant services, as specified in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act.

(iii) Nurse practitioners and clinical nurse specialist services, as specified in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(ii) of the Act.

(iv) Certified nurse midwife services, as specified in section 1861(gg) of the Act.

(v) Qualified psychologist services, as specified in section 1861(ii) of the Act.

(vi) Services of a certified registered nurse anesthetist, as specified in section 1861(bb) of the Act and defined in § 410.69 of this subchapter.

(2) CMS does not pay providers or suppliers other than inpatient psychiatric facilities for services furnished to a Medicare beneficiary who is an inpatient of the inpatient psychiatric facility, except for services described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(vi) of this section

(3) The inpatient psychiatric facility must furnish all necessary covered services to a Medicare beneficiary who is an inpatient of the inpatient psychiatric facility, either directly or under arrangements (as specified in § 409.3 of this chapter).
