
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Services of Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities
###### ยง 412.405 Preadmission services as inpatient operating costs under the inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system.

The prospective payment system includes payment for inpatient operating costs of preadmission services if the inpatient operating costs are for-

(a) Preadmission services otherwise payable under Medicare Part B furnished to a beneficiary on the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission, and during the calendar day immediately preceding the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission, to the inpatient psychiatric facility that meet the following conditions:

(1) The services are furnished by the inpatient psychiatric facility or by an entity wholly owned or wholly operated by the inpatient psychiatric facility. An entity is wholly owned by the inpatient psychiatric facility if the inpatient psychiatric facility is the sole owner of the entity. An entity is wholly operated by an inpatient psychiatric facility if the inpatient psychiatric facility has exclusive responsibility for conducting and overseeing the entity's routine operations, regardless of whether the inpatient psychiatric facility also has policymaking authority over the entity.

(2) The services are diagnostic (including clinical diagnostic laboratory tests).

(3) The services are nondiagnostic when furnished on the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission, the services are nondiagnostic when furnished on the calendar day preceding the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission and the hospital does not demonstrate that such services are unrelated to the beneficiary's inpatient admission, and are not one of the following:

(i) Ambulance services.

(ii) Maintenance renal dialysis services.

(b) The preadmission services are furnished on or after June 25, 2010.
