
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Services of Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities
###### ยง 412.424 Methodology for calculating the Federal per diem payment amount.
####### Teaching adjustment.

(iii)CMS adjusts the Federal per diem base rate by a factor to account for indirect teaching costs.

(A) An inpatient psychiatric facility's teaching adjustment is based on the ratio of the number of full-time equivalent residents training in the inpatient psychiatric facility divided by the facility's average daily census.

(B) Residents with less than full-time status and residents rotating through the inpatient psychiatric facility for less than a full year will be counted in proportion to the time they spend in the inpatient psychiatric facility.

(C) Except as described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(D) of this section, the actual number of current year full-time equivalent residents used in calculating the teaching adjustment is limited to the number of full-time equivalent residents in the inpatient psychiatric facility's most recently filed cost report filed with its fiscal intermediary before November 15, 2004 (base year).

(D) If the inpatient psychiatric facility first begins training residents in a new approved graduate medical education program after November 15, 2004, the number of full-time equivalent residents determined under paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(C) of this section may be adjusted using the method described in ยง 413.79(e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this chapter.

(E) The teaching adjustment is made on a claim basis as an interim payment, and the final payment in full for the claim is made during the final settlement of the cost report.
