
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Hospital Services of Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities
###### ยง 412.428 Publication of changes to the inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system.

CMS will issue annually in theinformation pertaining to changes to the inpatient psychiatric facility prospective payment system. This information includes:

(a) A description of the methodology and data used to calculate the federal per diem base payment amount for the subsequent fiscal year.

(b)(1) For discharges occurring on or after January 1, 2005 but before July 1, 2006, the update, described in ยง 412.424(a)(2)(iii), for the federal portion of the inpatient psychiatric facility's payments is based on the 1997-based excluded hospital with capital market basket under the applicable percentage increase methodology described in section 1886(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Act for each year.

(2)(i) For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006 but before October 1, 2015, the update for the federal portion of the inpatient psychiatric facility's payment is based on the rehabilitation, psychiatric, and long-term care market basket.

(ii) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2015, the update of the inpatient psychiatric facility's payment is based on the inpatient psychiatric facility market basket.

(3) For discharges occurring on or after January 1, 2005 but before October 1, 2005, the update, described in ยง 412.424(a)(2)(iii), for the reasonable cost portion of the inpatient psychiatric facility's payment is based on the 1997-based excluded hospital with capital market basket under the updated methodology described in section 1886(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Act for each year.

(4) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2005 but before July 1, 2008, the update for the reasonable cost portion of the inpatient psychiatric facility's payment is based on the 2002-based excluded hospital market basket.

(c) The best available hospital wage index and information regarding whether an adjustment to the Federal per diem base rate is needed to maintain budget neutrality.

(d) Updates to the fixed dollar loss threshold amount in order to maintain the appropriate outlier percentage.

(e) Describe the ICD-10-CM coding changes and DRG classification changes discussed in the annual update to the hospital inpatient prospective payment system regulations.

(f) Update the electroconvulsive therapy adjustment by a factor specified by CMS.

(g) Update the national urban and rural cost to charge ratio median and ceilings. CMS will apply the national cost to charge ratio to-

(1) New inpatient psychiatric facilities that have not submitted their first Medicare cost report.

(2) Inpatient psychiatric facilities whose operating or capital cost to charge ratio is in excess of 3 standard deviations above the corresponding national geometric mean.

(3) Other inpatient psychiatric facilities for which the fiscal intermediary obtains inaccurate or incomplete data with which to calculate either an operating or capital cost to charge ratio or both.

(h) Update the cost of living adjustment factor if appropriate.
