
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.500 Basis and scope of subpart.
####### Basis.

(a)This subpart implements the following:

(1) Section 123 of Public Law 106-113, which provides for the implementation of a prospective payment system for long-term care hospitals described in section 1886(d)(1)(B)(iv) of the Act.

(2) Section 307 of Public Law 106-554, which states that the Secretary shall examine and may provide for appropriate adjustments to that system, including adjustments to DRG weights, area wage adjustments, geographic reclassification, outliers, updates, and disproportionate share adjustments consistent with section 1886(d)(5)(F) of the Act.

(3) Section 114 of Public Law 110-173, which contains several provisions regarding long-term care hospitals, including the-

(i) Amendment of section 1886 of the Act to add a new subsection (m) that references section 123 of Public Law 106-113 and section 307(b) of Public Law 106-554 for the establishment and implementation of a prospective payment system for payments under title XVIII for inpatient hospital services furnished by a long-term care hospital described in section 1886(d)(1)(B)(iv) of the Act; and

(ii) Revision of the standard Federal rate for RY 2008.

(4) Section 4302(a) of Public Law 111-5, which amended sections 114(c) and (d) of Public Law 110-173 relating to several moratoria on the establishment of new long-term care hospitals and satellite facilities and on the increase in the number of beds in existing long-term care hospitals and satellite facilities under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system.

(5) Sections 3106(a) and 10312(a) of Public Law 111-148, which extended certain payment rules and moratoria under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system by further amending sections 114(c) and (d) of Public Law 110-173.

(6) Section 1206 of Public Law 113-67, which further extended certain payment rules and moratoria under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system by amending sections 114(c) and (d) of Public Law 110-173, and which:

(i) Added a new section 1886(m)(6) to the Act to establish a site neutral payment amount for long-term care hospital discharges that fail to meet the applicable criteria in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2015; and

(ii) Requires the Secretary's review of the payment rates and regulations governing long-term care hospitals established under section 1886(d)(1)(B)(iv)(II) of the Act and application of payment adjustments based on that review.

(7) Section 411 of Public Law 114-10 which revises the annual update to the LTCH PPS standard Federal payment rate in FY 2018.

(8) Public Law 114-255 which at-

(i) Section 15004 amended the moratorium on increasing beds in existing LTCHs and LTCH satellite facilities and amended high cost outlier payment requirements;

(ii) Section 15006 amended moratoria on certain payment policies;

(iii) Section 15007 amended the average length of stay requirements;

(iv) Section 15009 temporally excepted certain spinal cord specialty hospitals from the site neutral payment rate; and

(v) Section 15010 temporally excepted certain wound care discharges from certain LTCHs from the site neutral payment rate.

(9) Section 51005(a) of Public Law 115-123 which extended the blended payment rate for the site neutral payment rate cases to apply to discharges occurring in cost reporting periods beginning in FYs 2018 and 2019.

(10) Section 51005(b) of Public Law which reduces the IPPS comparable amount for the site neutral payment rate cases by 4.6 percent for FYs 2018 through 2026.
