
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### § 412.509 Furnishing of inpatient hospital services directly or under arrangement.

(a) Subject to the provisions of § 412.521(b), the applicable payments made under this subpart are payment in full for all inpatient hospital services, as defined in § 409.10 of this chapter. Inpatient hospital services do not include the following:

(1) Physicians' services that meet the requirements of § 415.102(a) of this subchapter for payment on a fee schedule basis.

(2) Physician assistant services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act.

(3) Nurse practitioners and clinical nurse specialist services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(ii) of the Act.

(4) Certified nurse midwife services, as defined in section 1861(gg) of the Act.

(5) Qualified psychologist services, as defined in section 1861(ii) of the Act.

(6) Services of an anesthetist, as defined in § 410.69 of this subchapter.

(b) Medicare does not pay any provider or supplier other than the long-term care hospital for services furnished to a Medicare beneficiary who is an inpatient of the hospital except for services described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section.

(c) The long-term care hospital must furnish all necessary covered services to the Medicare beneficiary who is an inpatient of the hospital either directly or under arrangements (as defined in § 409.3 of this subchapter).
