
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### § 412.521 Basis of payment.
####### Payment in full.

(b)(1) The payment made under this subpart represents payment in full (subject to applicable deductibles and coinsurance described in subpart G of part 409 of this subchapter) for covered inpatient operating costs as described in §§ 412.2(c)(1) through (c)(4) of this part and § 412.540 and capital-related costs described in subpart G of part 413 of this subchapter associated with furnishing Medicare covered services in long-term care hospitals.

(2) In addition to payment based on prospective payment rates, long-term care hospitals may receive payments separate from payments under the prospective payment system for the following:

(i) The costs of approved medical education programs described in §§ 413.75 through 413.83, 413.85, and 413.87 of this subchapter.

(ii) Bad debts of Medicare beneficiaries, as provided in § 413.89 of this subchapter.

(iii) A payment amount per unit for blood clotting factor provided to Medicare inpatients who have hemophilia.

(iv) Anesthesia services furnished by hospital employed nonphysician anesthetists or obtained under arrangements, as specified in § 412.113(c)(2).

(v) The costs of photocopying and mailing medical records requested by a QIO, in accordance with § 476.78(c) of this chapter.
