
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### § 412.522 Application of site neutral payment rate.
####### Adjustments.

(2)CMS adjusts the payment rate determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to account for-

(i) Outlier payments, by applying a reduction factor equal to the estimated proportion of outlier payments under § 412.525(a) payable for discharges from a long-term care hospital described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to total estimated payments under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system to discharges from a long-term care hospital described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The adjustment under this paragraph (c)(2)(i) does not include the portion of the blended payment rate described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) A 3-day or less interruption of a stay and a greater than 3-day interruption of a stay, as provided for in § 412.531. For purposes of the application of the provisions of § 412.531 to discharges from a long-term care hospital described under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the long-term care hospital prospective payment system standard Federal payment-related terms, such as "LTC-DRG payment," "full Federal LTC-DRG prospective payment," and "Federal prospective payment," mean the site neutral payment rate calculated under paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) The special payment provisions for long-term care hospitals-within-hospitals and satellite facilities of long-term care hospitals specified in § 412.534.

(iv) The special payment provisions for long-term care hospitals and satellite facilities of long-term care hospitals that discharged Medicare patients admitted from a hospital not located in the same building or on the same campus as the long-term care hospital or satellite facility of the long-term care hospital, as provided in § 412.536.
