
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### § 412.525 Adjustments to the Federal prospective payment.
####### Adjustments for high-cost outliers.

(a)(1) CMS provides for an additional payment to a long-term care hospital if its estimated costs for a patient exceed the applicable long-term care hospital prospective payment system payment plus an applicable fixed-loss amount. For each long-term care hospital prospective payment system payment year, CMS annually establishes a fixed-loss amount that is the maximum loss that a long-term care hospital would incur under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system for a case with unusually high costs before receiving an additional payment.

(2)(i) The fixed loss-amount for discharges from a long-term care hospital described under § 412.522(a)(2) is determined for the long-term care hospital prospective payment system payment year, using the LTC-DRG relative weights that are in effect at the start of the applicable long-term care hospital prospective payment system payment year.

(ii) For FY 2018 and subsequent years, the fixed-loss amount for long-term care hospital discharges described under § 412.522(a)(2) is determined such that the estimated proportion of outlier payments under paragraph (a) of this section payable for such discharges is projected to be equal to 99.6875 of 8 percent.

(3) The additional payment equals 80 percent of the difference between the estimated cost of the patient's care (determined by multiplying the hospital-specific cost-to-charge ratio by the Medicare allowable covered charge) and the sum of the applicable long-term care hospital prospective payment system payment and the applicable fixed-loss amount.

(4)(i) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2002 and before August 8, 2003, no reconciliations will be made to outlier payments upon cost report settlement to account for differences between the estimated cost-to-charge ratio and the actual cost-to-charge ratio of the case.

(ii) For discharges occurring on or after August 8, 2003, and before October 1, 2006, high-cost outlier payments are subject to the provisions of § 412.84(i)(1), (i)(3), and (i)(4) and (m) for adjustments of cost-to-charge ratios.

(iii) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2003, and before October 1, 2006, high-cost outlier payments are subject to the provisions of § 412.84(i)(2) for adjustments to cost-to-charge ratios.

(iv) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2006, high-cost outlier payments are subject to the following provisions:

(A) CMS may specify an alternative to the cost-to-charge ratio otherwise applicable under paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(B) of this section. A hospital may also request that its fiscal intermediary use a different (higher or lower) cost-to-charge ratio based on substantial evidence presented by the hospital. A request must be approved by the CMS Regional Office.

(B) The cost-to-charge ratio applied at the time a claim is processed is based on either the most recent settled cost report or the most recent tentatively settled cost report, whichever is from the latest cost reporting period.

(C) The fiscal intermediary may use a statewide average cost-to-charge ratio, which CMS establishes annually, if it is unable to determine an accurate cost-to-charge ratio for a hospital in one of the following circumstances:
