
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.529 Special payment provision for short-stay outliers.
####### Discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006 and before July 1, 2007 and discharges occurring on or after December 29, 2007 and before December 29, 2012.

(2)For discharges from long-term care hospitals described under ยง 412.23(e)(2)(i) occurring on or after July 1, 2006 and before July 1, 2007 and discharges occurring on or after December 29, 2007 and before December 29, 2012, the LTCH prospective payment system adjusted payment amount for a short-stay outlier case is the least of the following amounts:

(i) One hundred and twenty (120) percent of the LTC-DRG specific per diem amount determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(ii) One hundred (100) percent of the estimated cost of the case determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(iii) The Federal prospective payment for the LTC-DRG as determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iv) An amount payable under subpart O computed as a blend of an amount comparable to the hospital inpatient prospective payment system per diem amount determined under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section and the 120 percent of the LTC-DRG specific per diem payment amount determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(A) The blend percentage applicable to the 120 percent of the LTC-DRG specific per diem payment amount determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is determined by dividing the covered length-of-stay of the case by the lesser of five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay of the LTC-DRG or 25 days, not to exceed 100 percent.

(B) The blend percentage of the amount determined under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section is determined by subtracting the percentage determined in paragraph (A) from 100 percent.
