
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.531 Special payment provisions when an interruption of a stay occurs in a long-term care hospital.
####### A greater than 3-day interruption of stay defined.

(2)"A greater than 3-day or less interruption of stay" means A stay in a long-term care hospital during which a Medicare inpatient is discharged from the long-term care hospital to an acute care hospital, an IRF, or a SNF for a period of greater than 3 days but within the applicable fixed-day period specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this section before being readmitted to the same long-term care hospital.

(i) For a discharge to an acute care hospital, the applicable fixed day period is between 4 and 9 consecutive days. The counting of the days begins on the date of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends on the 9th date after the discharge.

(ii) For a discharge to an IRF, the applicable fixed day period is between 4 and 27 consecutive days. The counting of the days begins on the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends on the 27th day after discharge.

(iii) For a discharge to a SNF, the applicable fixed day period is between 4 and 45 consecutive days. The counting of the days begins on the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends on the 45th day after the discharge.
