
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.533 Transition payments.
####### Duration of transition periods.

(a)Except for a long-term care hospital that makes an election under paragraph (c) of this section or for a long-term care hospital that is defined as new under ยง 412.23(e)(4), for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002, and before October 1, 2006, a long-term care hospital receives a payment comprised of a blend of the adjusted Federal prospective payment as determined under ยง 412.523, and the payment determined under the cost-based reimbursement rules under Part 413 of this subchapter.

(1) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002 and before October 1, 2003, payment is based on 20 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 80 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate.

(2) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2003 and before October 1, 2004, payment is based on 40 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 60 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate.

(3) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2005, payment is based on 60 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 40 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate.

(4) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and before October 1, 2006, payment is based on 80 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate and 20 percent of the cost-based reimbursement rate.

(5) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2006, payment is based entirely on the adjusted Federal prospective payment rate.
