
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.533 Transition payments.
####### Notification requirement to make election.

(2)(i) The request by the long-term care hospital to make the election under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be made in writing to the Medicare fiscal intermediary.

(ii) For cost reporting periods that begin on or after October 1, 2002 through November 30, 2002, the fiscal intermediary must receive the notification of the election before November 1, 2002.

(iii) For cost reporting periods that begin on or after December 1, 2002 through September 30, 2006, the fiscal intermediary must receive the notification of the election on or before the 30th day before the applicable cost reporting period begins.

(iv) The fiscal intermediary must receive the notification by the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section, regardless of any postmarks or anticipated delivery dates. Requests received, postmarked, or delivered by other means after the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section will not be accepted. If the date specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section falls on a day that the postal service or other delivery sources are not open for business, the long-term care hospital is responsible for allowing sufficient time for the delivery of the notification before the deadline.

(v) If a long-term care hospital's notification is not received by the dates specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section, payment will be based on the transition period rates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.
