
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### § 412.541 Method of payment under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system.
####### Frequency of payment.

(2)(i) For long-term care hospitals approved for PIP and paid solely under Federal prospective payment system rates under §§ 412.533(a)(5) and 412.533(c), the intermediary estimates the long-term care hospital's Federal prospective payments net after estimated beneficiary deductibles and coinsurance and makes biweekly payments equal toof the total estimated amount of payment for the year.

(ii) For long-term care hospitals approved for PIP and paid using the blended payment schedule specified in § 412.533(a) for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002, and before October 1, 2006, the intermediary estimates the hospital's portion of the Federal prospective payments net and the hospital's portion of the reasonable cost-based reimbursement payments net, after beneficiary deductibles and coinsurance, in accordance with the blended transition percentages specified in § 412.533(a), and makes biweekly payments equal toof the total estimated amount of both portions of payments for the year.

(iii) If the long-term care hospital has payment experience under the long-term care hospital prospective payment system, the intermediary estimates PIP based on that payment experience, adjusted for projected changes supported by substantiated information for the current year.

(iv) Each payment is made 2 weeks after the end of a biweekly period of service as described in § 413.64(h)(6) of this subchapter.

(v) The interim payments are reviewed at least twice during the reporting period and adjusted if necessary. Fewer reviews may be necessary if a hospital receives interim payments for less than a full reporting period. These payments are subject to final settlement.
