
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.560 Requirements under the Long-Term Care Hospital Quality Reporting Program (LTCH QRP).
####### Exception and extension request requirements.

(c)Upon request by a long-term care hospital, CMS may grant an exception or extension with respect to the measures data and standardized patient assessment data reporting requirements, for one or more quarters, in the event of certain extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the long-term care hospital, subject to the following:

(1) A long-term care hospital that wishes to request an exception or extension with respect to measures data and standardized patient assessment data reporting requirements must submit its request to CMS within 90 days of the date that the extraordinary circumstances occurred.

(2) A long-term care hospital must submit its request for an exception or extension to CMS via email. Email is the only form that may be used to submit to CMS a request for an exception or an extension.

(3) The email request for an exception or extension must contain the following information:

(i) The CCN for the long-term care hospital.

(ii) The business name of the long-term care hospital.

(iii) The business address of the long-term care hospital.

(iv) Contact information for the long-term care hospital's chief executive officer or designated personnel, including the name, telephone number, title, email address, and physical mailing address. (The mailing address may not be a post office box.)

(v) A statement of the reason for the request for the exception or extension.

(vi) Evidence of the impact of the extraordinary circumstances, including, but not limited to, photographs, newspaper articles, and other media.

(vii) The date on which the long-term care hospital will be able to again submit measures data and standardized patient assessment data under the LTCH QRP and a justification for the proposed date.

(4) CMS may grant an exception or extension to a long-term care hospital that has not been requested by the long-term care hospital if CMS determines that-

(i) An extraordinary circumstance affects an entire region or locale; or

(ii) A systemic problem with one of CMS' data collection systems directly affected the ability of the long-term care hospital to submit measures data and standardized patient assessment data.
