
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart O - Prospective Payment System for Long-Term Care Hospitals
###### ยง 412.560 Requirements under the Long-Term Care Hospital Quality Reporting Program (LTCH QRP).
####### Request for reconsideration of noncompliance decision.

(2)A long-term care hospital may request a reconsideration of CMS' decision of noncompliance no later than 30 calendar days from the date of the written notification of noncompliance. The reconsideration request by the long-term care hospital must be submitted to CMS via email and must contain the following information:

(i) The CCN for the long-term care hospital.

(ii) The business name of the long-term care hospital.

(iii) The business address of the long-term care hospital.

(iv) Contact information for the long-term care hospital's chief executive officer or designated personnel, including each individual's name, title, email address, telephone number, and physical mailing address. (The physical address may not be a post office box.)

(v) CMS's identified reason(s) for the noncompliance decision from the written notification of noncompliance.

(vi) The reason for requesting reconsideration of CMS' noncompliance decision.

(vii) Accompanying documentation that demonstrates compliance of the long-term care hospital with the LTCH QRP requirements. This documentation must be submitted electronically at the same time as the reconsideration request as an attachment to the email.
