
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart P - Prospective Payment for Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals and Rehabilitation Units
###### § 412.604 Conditions for payment under the prospective payment system for inpatient rehabilitation facilities.
####### Furnishing of inpatient hospital services directly or under arrangement.

(e)(1) Subject to the provisions of § 412.622(b), the applicable payments made under this subpart are payment in full for all inpatient hospital services, as defined in § 409.10 of this subchapter. Inpatient hospital services do not include the following:

(i) Physicians' services that meet the requirements of § 415.102(a) of this subchapter for payment on a fee schedule basis.

(ii) Physician assistant services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act.

(iii) Nurse practitioner and clinical nurse specialist services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(ii) of the Act.

(iv) Certified nurse midwife services, as defined in section 1861(gg) of the Act.

(v) Qualified psychologist services, as defined in section 1861(ii) of the Act.

(vi) Services of an anesthetist, as defined in § 410.69 of this chapter.

(2) Medicare does not pay any provider or supplier other than the inpatient rehabilitation facility for services furnished to a Medicare beneficiary who is an inpatient of the inpatient rehabilitation facility, except for services described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(vi) of this section.

(3) The inpatient rehabilitation facility must furnish all necessary covered services to the Medicare beneficiary either directly or under arrangements (as defined in § 409.3 of this subchapter).

(f) The prospective payment system includes payment for inpatient operating costs of preadmission services that are-

(1) Otherwise payable under Medicare Part B;

(2) Furnished to a beneficiary on the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission, and during the calendar day immediately preceding the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission, to the inpatient rehabilitation facility, or to an entity wholly owned or wholly operated by the inpatient rehabilitation facility; and

(i) An entity is wholly owned by the inpatient rehabilitation facility if the inpatient rehabilitation facility is the sole owner of the entity.

(ii) An entity is wholly operated by an inpatient rehabilitation facility if the inpatient rehabilitation facility has exclusive responsibility for conducting and overseeing the entity's routine operations, regardless of whether the inpatient rehabilitation facility also has policymaking authority over the entity.

(3) Related to the inpatient stay. A preadmission service is related if-

(i) It is diagnostic (including clinical diagnostic laboratory tests); or

(ii) It is nondiagnostic when furnished on the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission; or

(iii) On or after June 25,, 2010, it is nondiagnostic when furnished on the calendar day preceding the date of the beneficiary's inpatient admission and the hospital does not attest that such service is unrelated to the beneficiary's inpatient admission.

(4) Not one of the following-

(i) Ambulance services.

(ii) Maintenance renal dialysis services.
