
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart P - Prospective Payment for Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals and Rehabilitation Units
###### ยง 412.624 Methodology for calculating the Federal prospective payment rates.
####### For fiscal years after 2002.

(ii)The standard payment conversion factor for fiscal years after 2002 will be the standardized payments for the previous fiscal year updated by the increase factor described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, including adjustments described in paragraph (d) of this section as appropriate.

(4) Applicable increase factor for FY 2014 and for subsequent FY. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (c)(4)(ii) of this section, the applicable increase factor for FY 2014 and for subsequent years for updating the standard payment conversion factor is the increase factor described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, including adjustments described in paragraph (d) of this section as appropriate.

(i) In the case of an IRF that is paid under the prospective payment system specified in ยง 412.1(a)(3) that does not submit quality data to CMS in accordance with ยง 412.634, the applicable increase factor specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, after application of subparagraphs (C)(iii) and (D) of section 1886(j)(3) of the Act, is reduced by 2 percentage points.

(ii) Any reduction of the increase factor will apply only to the fiscal year involved and will not be taken into account in computing the applicable increase factor for a subsequent fiscal year.

(iii) The 2 percentage point reduction described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section may result in the applicable increase factor specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section being less than 0.0 for a fiscal year, and may result in payment rates under the prospective payment system specified in ยง 412.1(a)(3) for a fiscal year being less than such payment rates for the preceding fiscal year.
