
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart P - Prospective Payment for Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals and Rehabilitation Units
###### ยง 412.624 Methodology for calculating the Federal prospective payment rates.
####### Adjustments for teaching hospitals.,General.

(4)(i)For discharges on or after October 1, 2005, CMS adjusts the Federal prospective payment on a facility basis by a factor as specified by CMS for facilities that are teaching institutions or units of teaching institutions.

(A) An IRF's teaching adjustment is based on the ratio of the number of full-time equivalent residents training in the IRF divided by the facility's average daily census.

(B) As described in ยง 412.105(f)(1)(iii)(A), residents with less than full-time status are counted as partial full time equivalent based on the proportion of time assigned to the inpatient rehabilitation facility compared to the total time necessary to fill a residency slot. Residents rotating to more than one hospital or non-hospital setting will be counted in proportion to the time they are assigned to inpatient rehabilitation facility compared to the total time worked in all locations. An inpatient rehabilitation facility cannot claim time spent by the resident at another inpatient rehabilitation facility or hospital.

(C) Except as described in paragraph (e)(4)(i)(D) of this section, the actual number of current year full-time equivalent residents used in calculating the teaching adjustment is limited to the number of full-time equivalent residents in the IRF's final settled cost report for the most recent cost reporting period ending on or before November 15, 2004 (base year).

(D) If the inpatient rehabilitation facility first begins training residents in a new approved graduate medical education program after November 15, 2004, the number of full-time equivalent residents determined under paragraph (e)(4)(i)(C) of this section may be adjusted using the method described in ยง 413.79(e)(1)(i).

(E) The teaching adjustment is made on a claim basis as an interim payment, and the final payment in full for the claim is made during the final settlement of the cost report.
