
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 412 - PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEMS FOR INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES
##### Subpart P - Prospective Payment for Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals and Rehabilitation Units
###### ยง 412.624 Methodology for calculating the Federal prospective payment rates.
####### Special payment provision for patients that are transferred.

(f)(1) A facility's Federal prospective payment will be adjusted to account for a discharge of a patient who-

(i) Is transferred from the inpatient rehabilitation facility to another site of care, as defined in ยง 412.602; and

(ii) Stays in the facility for a number of days that is less than the average length of stay for nontransfer cases in the case-mix group to which the patient is classified.

(2) We calculate the adjusted Federal prospective payment for patients who are transferred in the following manner:

(i) By dividing the Federal prospective payment by the average length of stay for nontransfer cases in the case-mix group to which the patient is classified to equal the payment per day.

(ii) By multiplying the payment per day under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section by the number of days the patient stayed in the facility prior to being discharged to equal the per day payment amount.

(iii) By multiplying the payment per day under paragraph (f)(2)(i) by 0.5 to equal an additional one half day payment for the first day of the stay before the discharge.

(iv) By adding the per day payment amount under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) and the additional one-half day payment under paragraph (f)(2)(iii) to equal the unadjusted payment amount.

(v) By applying the adjustment described in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), (3), (4), and (6) of this section to the unadjusted payment amount determined in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section to equal the adjusted transfer payment amount and making a payment in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section, if applicable.
