
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart A - Introduction and General Rules
###### ยง 413.1 Introduction.
####### Additional provisions.

(ii)(A) Section 1138(b) of the Act specifies the conditions for Medicare payment for organ procurement costs.

(B) Section 1814(j) of the Act provides for exceptions to the "lower of costs or charges" provisions.

(C) Sections 1815(a) and 1833(e) of the Act provide the Secretary with authority to request information from providers to determine the amount of Medicare payment due providers.

(D) Section 1833(a)(4) and (i)(3) of the Act provide for payment of a blended amount for certain surgical services furnished in a hospital's outpatient department.

(E) Section 1833(n) of the Act provides for payment of a blended amount for outpatient hospital diagnostic procedures such as radiology.

(F) Section 1834(c)(1)(C) of the Act establishes the method for determining Medicare payment for screening mammograms performed by hospitals.

(G) Section 1834(g) of the Act provides that payment for critical access hospital (CAH) outpatient services is the reasonable costs of the CAH in providing these services, as determined in accordance with section 1861(v)(1)(A) of the Act and the applicable principles of cost reimbursement in this part and in part 415 of this chapter.

(H) Section 1881 of the Act authorizes payment for services furnished to ESRD patients.

(I) Section 1883 of the Act provides for payment for post-hospital SNF care furnished by a rural hospital that has swing-bed approval.

(J) Sections 1886(a) and (b) of the Act impose a ceiling on the rate of increase in hospital inpatient costs.

(K) Section 1886(h) of the Act provides for payment to a hospital for the services of interns and residents in approved teaching programs on the basis of a "per resident" amount.

(L) Section 1834(x) of the Act authorizes payment for services furnished by rural emergency hospitals (REHs) and establishes the payment methodology.
