
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart A - Introduction and General Rules
###### § 413.1 Introduction.
####### Payment for inpatient hospital services.

(d)(1) For cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 1983, the amount paid for inpatient hospital services is determined on a reasonable cost basis.

(2) Payment to short-term general hospitals located in the 50 States and the District of Columbia for the operating costs of hospital inpatient services for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983, and for the capital-related costs of inpatient services for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991, are determined prospectively on a per discharge basis under part 412 of this chapter except as follows:

(i) Payment for the following is described in § 412.113 of this chapter:

(A) Capital related costs for cost reporting periods beginning before October 1991.

(B) Medical education costs.

(C) Organ acquisition costs as specified in part 413, subpart L.

(D) The costs of certain anesthesia services.

(ii) Payment to children's hospitals that are excluded from the prospective payment systems under subpart B of part 412 of this chapter, and hospitals outside the 50 States and the District of Columbia is on a reasonable cost basis, subject to the provisions of § 413.40.

(iii) Payment to hospitals subject to a State reimbursement control system is described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(iv) For cost reporting periods beginning before January 1, 2005, payment to psychiatric hospitals (as well as separate psychiatric units (distinct parts) of short-term general hospitals) that are excluded under subpart B of part 412 of this chapter from the prospective payment system is on a reasonable cost basis, subject to the provisions of § 413.40.

(v) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005, payment to inpatient psychiatric facilities that meet the conditions of § 412.404 of this chapter, is made under the prospective payment system described in subpart N of part 412 of this chapter.

(vi) For cost reporting periods beginning before January 1, 2002, payment to rehabilitation hospitals (as well as separate rehabilitation units (distinct parts) of short-term general hospitals), that are excluded under subpart B of part 412 of this subchapter from the prospective payment systems is made on a reasonable cost basis, subject to the provisions of § 413.40.

(vii) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2002, payment to rehabilitation hospitals (as well as separate rehabilitation units (distinct parts) of short-term general hospitals) that meet the conditions of § 412.604 of this chapter is based on prospectively determined rates under subpart P of part 412 of this subchapter.

(viii) For cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 2002, payment to long-term care hospitals that are excluded under subpart B of Part 412 of this subchapter from the prospective payment systems is on a reasonable cost basis, subject to the provisions of § 413.40.

(ix) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002, payment to the long-term hospitals that meet the condition for payment of §§ 412.505 through 412.511 of this subchapter is based on prospectively determined rates under subpart O of Part 412 of this subchapter.
