
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart B - Accounting Records and Reports
###### ยง 413.24 Adequate cost data and cost finding.
####### Cost finding methods.

(d)After the close of the accounting period, providers must use one of the following methods of cost finding to determine the actual costs of services furnished during that period. (These provisions do not apply to SNFs that elect and qualify for prospectively determined payment rates under subpart I of this part for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1986. For the special rules that are applicable to those SNFs, see ยง 413.321.) For cost reporting periods beginning after December 31, 1971, providers using the departmental method of cost apportionment must use the step-down method described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section or an "other method" described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. For cost reporting periods beginning after December 31, 1971, providers using the combination method of cost apportionment must use the modified cost finding method described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1980, HHAs not based in hospitals or SNFs must use the step-down method described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (HHAs based in hospitals or SNFs must use the method applicable to the parent institution.) However, an HHA not based in a hospital or SNF that received less than $35,000 in Medicare payment for the immediately preceding cost reporting period, and for whom this payment represented less than 50 percent of the total operating cost of the agency, may use a simplified version of the step-down method, as specified in instructions for the cost report issued by CMS.
