
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart B - Accounting Records and Reports
###### ยง 413.24 Adequate cost data and cost finding.
####### Modified cost finding for providers using the Combination Method for reporting periods beginning after December 31, 1971.

(3)This method differs from the step-down method in that services furnished by nonrevenue-producing departments or centers are allocated directly to revenue-producing departments or centers even though these services may be utilized by other nonrevenue-producing departments or centers. In the application of this method the cost of nonrevenue-producing centers having a common basis of allocation are combined and the total distributed to revenue-producing centers. All nonrevenue-producing centers having significant percentages of cost in relation to total costs will be allocated this way. The combined total costs of remaining nonrevenue-producing costs centers will be allocated to revenue-producing cost centers in the proportion that each bears to total costs, direct and indirect, already allocated. The bases which are to be used and the centers which are to be combined for allocation are not optional but are identified and incorporated in the cost report forms developed for this method. Providers using this method must use the program cost report forms devised for it. Alternative forms may not be used without prior approval by CMS based upon a written request by the provider submitted through the contractor.
