
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart B - Accounting Records and Reports
###### § 413.24 Adequate cost data and cost finding.
####### Simplified optional reimbursement method for small, rural hospitals with distinct parts for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 20, 1982.

(5)(i) A rural hospital with a Medicare-certified distinct part SNF may elect to be reimbursed for services furnished in its hospital general routine service area and distinct part SNF using the reimbursement method specified in § 413.53 for swing-bed hospitals, if it meets the following conditions:

(A) The institution is located in a rural area as defined in § 482.58 of this chapter.

(B) On the first day of the cost reporting period, the hospital and distinct part SNF have fewer than 50 beds in total (with the exception of beds for newborns and beds in intensive care type inpatient units).

(ii) In applying the optional reimbursement method, only those beds located in the hospital general routine service area and in the distinct part SNF certified by Medicare are combined into a single cost center for purposes of cost finding.

(iii) The reasonable cost of the routine extended care services is determined in accordance with § 413.114(c). The reasonable cost of the hospital general routine services is determined in accordance with § 413.53(a)(2).

(iv) The hospital must make its election to use the optional swing-bed reimbursement method in writing to the contractor before the beginning of the hospital's cost reporting year. The hospital must make any request to revoke the election in writing before the beginning of the affected cost reporting period.

(v) The contractor must approve requests to terminate use of the optional swing-bed reimbursement method. If a hospital terminates use of this optional method, no further elections may be made by the facility to use the optional method.
