
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart B - Accounting Records and Reports
###### ยง 413.24 Adequate cost data and cost finding.
####### Electronic submission of cost reports.

(4)

(i) As used in this paragraph (f)(4), "provider" means a hospital, rural emergency hospital, skilled nursing facility, home health agency, hospice, organ procurement organization, histocompatibility laboratory, rural health clinic, federally qualified health center, community mental health center, or end-stage renal disease facility.

(ii) Effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1989, for hospitals; cost reporting periods ending on or after February 1, 1997, for skilled nursing facilities and home health agencies; cost reporting periods ending on or after December 31, 2004, for hospices, and end-stage renal disease facilities; cost reporting periods ending on or after March 31, 2005, for organ procurement organizations, histocompatibility laboratories, rural health clinics, federally qualified health centers, and community mental health centers; and cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2023, for rural emergency hospitals, a provider is required to submit cost reports in a standardized electronic format. The provider's electronic program must be capable of producing the CMS standardized output file in a form that can be read by the contractor's automated system. This electronic file, which must contain the input data required to complete the cost report and to pass specified edits, must be forwarded to the contractor for processing through its system.

(iii) The contractor stores the provider's as-filed electronic cost report and may not alter that file for any reason. The contractor makes a "working copy" of the as-filed electronic cost report to be used, as necessary, throughout the settlement process (that is, desk review, processing audit adjustments, and final settlement). The provider's electronic program must be able to disclose if any changes have been made to the as-filed electronic cost report after acceptance by the contractor. If the as-filed electronic cost report does not pass all specified edits, the contractor must return it to the provider for correction. For purposes of the requirements in paragraph (f)(2) of this section concerning due dates, an electronic cost report is not considered to be filed until it is accepted by the contractor.

(iv)(A) Effective as specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(iv)(A)(1) through (5) of this section and except as provided in paragraph (f)(4)(iv)(C) of this section, a provider must submit a hard copy of a settlement summary, if applicable, which is a statement of certain worksheet totals found within the electronic file, and the certification statement described in paragraph (f)(4)(iv)(B) of this section signed by its administrator or chief financial officer certifying the accuracy of the electronic file or the manually prepared cost report.
