
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart C - Limits on Cost Reimbursement
###### ยง 413.30 Limitations on payable costs.
####### Procedure for establishing limits.

(b)(1) In establishing limits under this section, CMS may classify SNFs and HHAs by factors that CMS finds appropriate and practical, including the following:

(i) Type of services furnished.

(ii) Geographical area where services are furnished, allowing for grouping of noncontiguous areas having similar demographic and economic characteristics.

(iii) Size of institution.

(iv) Nature and mix of services furnished.

(v) Type and mix of patients treated.

(2) CMS bases its estimates of the costs necessary for efficient delivery of health services on cost reports or other data providing indicators of current costs. CMS adjusts current and past period data to arrive at estimated costs for the prospective periods to which limits are applied.

(3) Before the beginning of a cost period to which revised limits will be applied, CMS publishes a notice in theestablishing cost limits and explaining the basis on which they are calculated.

(4) In establishing limits under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, CMS may find it inappropriate to apply particular limits to a class of SNFs or HHAs due to the characteristics of the SNF or HHA class, the data on which CMS bases those limits, or the method by which CMS determines the limits. In these cases, CMS may exclude that class of SNFs or HHAs from the limits, explaining the basis of the exclusion in the notice setting forth the limits for the appropriate cost reporting periods.
