
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart C - Limits on Cost Reimbursement
###### ยง 413.35 Limitations on coverage of costs: Charges to beneficiaries if cost limits are applied to services.
####### Provider request to charge beneficiaries for costs in excess of limits.

(b)(1) If a provider's actual costs (or, if less, the customary charges) in the second preceding cost period exceed the prospective limits established for such costs, the contractor will, at the provider's request, validate in advance the charges that may be made to the beneficiaries for the excess.

(2) If a provider does not have a second preceding cost period and is a new provider as defined in ยง 413.30(e), the provider, subject to validation by the contractor, will estimate the current cost of the service to which a limit is being applied. Such amount will be adjusted to an amount equivalent to costs in the second preceding year by use of a factor to be developed based on estimates of cost increases during the preceding two years and published by SSA or CMS. The amount thus derived will be used in lieu of the second preceding cost period amount in determining the charge to the beneficiary.

(3) To obtain consideration of such a request, the provider must submit to the contractor a statement indicating the chagre for which it is seeking validation and providing the data and method used to determine the amount. Such statement should include the-

(i) Provider's name and number;

(ii) Identity of class and prospective cost limit for the class in which the provider has been included;

(iii) Amount of charge and cost period in which the charge is to be imposed;

(iv) Cost and customary charge for items and services furnished to beneficiaries; and

(v) Cost period ending date of the second reporting period immediately preceding the cost period in which the charge is to be imposed. The contractor may request such additional information as it finds necessary with respect to the request.
