
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart C - Limits on Cost Reimbursement
###### § 413.40 Ceiling on the rate of increase in hospital inpatient costs.
####### Applicability.

(2)(i) This section is not applicable to-

(A) Hospitals reimbursed in accordance with section 1814(b)(3) of the Act or under State reimbursement control systems that have been approved under section 1886(c) of the Act and subpart C of part 403 of this chapter; or

(B) Hospitals that are paid under the prospective payment systems for inpatient hospital services in accordance with section 1886 (d) and (g) of the Act and part 412 of this chapter.

(C) Psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units that are paid under the prospective payment system for inpatient psychiatric facilities described in subpart N of part 412 of this chapter for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005.

(D) Rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units that are paid under the prospective payment system for inpatient hospital services in accordance with section 1886(j) of the Act and subpart P of part 412 of this subchapter for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2002.

(E) Long-term care hospitals, as defined in section 1886(d)(1)(B)(iv) of the Act, that are paid based on 100 percent of the Federal prospective payment rate for inpatient hospital services in accordance with section 123 of Public Law 106-113 and section 307 of Public Law 106-554 and § 412.533(b) and (c) of subpart O of part 412 of this subchapter for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002.

(ii) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983, this section applies to-

(A) Hospitals excluded from the prospective payment systems described in § 412.1(a)(1) of this subchapter;

(B) Psychiatric and rehabilitation units excluded from the prospective payment systems, as specified in § 412.1(a)(1) of this chapter and in accordance with § 412.25 through § 412.30 of this chapter, except as limited by paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) and (a)(2)(iv) of this section with respect to psychiatric and rehabilitation hospitals and psychiatric and rehabilitation units as specified in §§ 412.22, 412.23, 412.25, 412.27, 412.29 and 412.30 of this chapter.

(C) Long-term care hospitals excluded from the prospective payment systems described in § 412.1(a)(1) of this subchapter and in accordance with § 412.23 of this subchapter, except as limited by paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section with respect to long-term care hospitals specified in § 412.23(e) of this subchapter.

(iii) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983 and before January 1, 2005 this section applies to psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units that are excluded from the prospective payment systems as specified in § 412.1(a)(1) of this chapter and paid under the prospective payment system as specified in § 412.1(a)(2) of this chapter.

(iv) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983 and before January 1, 2002, this section applies to rehabilitation hospitals and rehabilitation units that are excluded from the prospective payment systems described in § 412.1(a)(1) of this subchapter.

(v) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983 and before October 1, 2002, this section applies to long-term care hospitals that are excluded from the prospective payment systems described in § 412.1(a)(1) of this subchapter. For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002, and before October 1, 2006, this section also applies to long-term care hospitals, subject to paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
