
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart C - Limits on Cost Reimbursement
###### ยง 413.40 Ceiling on the rate of increase in hospital inpatient costs.
####### Request for rebased target amount for the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1997 and on or before September 30, 1998.

(iv)Except for qualified long-term care hospitals as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, each hospital or unit under present or previous ownership that received payment under section 1886(b) of the Act during cost reporting periods beginning before October 1, 1990, may submit a request to its contractor to rebase its target amount. The request must be received by the contractor by the later of November 1, 1997 or 60 days before the beginning of its cost reporting period beginning during fiscal year 1998. The rebased target amount for the cost reporting period beginning during fiscal year 1998 is determined as follows:

(A) Determine the hospital's inpatient operating costs per case for each of the five most recent settled cost reports as of August 5, 1997.

(B) For each of the five cost reports, update the operating costs per case by the applicable update factors up to the hospital's cost reporting period beginning during FY 1998.

(C) Exclude the highest and lowest of the five updated amounts determined under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(B) of this section.

(D) Compute the average for the remaining three updated amounts for operating cost per case.
