
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart C - Limits on Cost Reimbursement
###### ยง 413.40 Ceiling on the rate of increase in hospital inpatient costs.
####### Continuous improvement bonus payments.

(4)(i) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1997, eligible hospitals (as defined in paragraph (d)(5) of this section) receive payments in addition to those in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, as applicable. These payments are equal to the lesser of-

(A) 50 percent of the amount by which the operating costs are less than the expected costs for the period; or

(B) 1 percent of the ceiling.

(ii) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2000, and before September 30, 2001, eligible psychiatric hospitals and units and long-term care hospitals (as defined in paragraph (d)(5) of this section) receive payments in addition to those in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, as applicable. These payments are equal to the lesser of-

(A) 50 percent of the amount by which the operating costs are less than the expected costs for the period; or

(B) 1.5 percent of the ceiling.

(iii) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2001, and before September 30, 2002, eligible psychiatric hospitals and units and long-term care hospitals receive payments in addition to those in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, as applicable. These payments are equal to the lesser of-

(A) 50 percent of the amount by which the operating costs are less than the expected costs for the periods; or

(B) 2 percent of the ceiling.
