
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart C - Limits on Cost Reimbursement
###### ยง 413.40 Ceiling on the rate of increase in hospital inpatient costs.
####### Comparison,Exemptions.

(2)-(i)(A) A new children's hospital is exempt from the rate-of-increase ceiling imposed under this section. The exemption begins when the hospital accepts its first patient and ends at the end of the first cost reporting period ending at least 2 years after the hospital accepts its first patient. The first cost reporting period of at least 12 months beginning at least 1 year after the hospital accepts its first patient is the base year, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(B) Within 180 days of the date a hospital is excluded from the prospective payment system, the contractor determines whether the hospital is exempt from the rate-of-increase ceiling. The contractor notifies the hospital of its determination and the hospital's base period.

(C) A decision issued under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section is considered final unless the hospital submits additional information and requests a review of the decision no later than 180 days after the date on the contractor's notice of the decision. The final decision is subject to review under subpart R of part 405 of this chapter, provided the hospital has received a notice of program reimbursement (NPR) for the cost reporting period in question and the NPR does not reflect an exemption (see the definitions in ยง 405.1801(a) of this chapter and the provisions regarding a provider's right to a Board hearing in ยง 405.1835 of this chapter).
