
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart D - Apportionment
###### ยง 413.53 Determination of cost of services to beneficiaries.
####### Carve-out out method.

(2)(i) The carve-out out method is used to allocate hospital inpatient general routine service costs in a participating swing-bed hospital, as defined in ยง 413.114(b). Under this method, effective for services furnished on or after October 1, 1990, the reasonable costs attributable to the inpatient routine SNF-type and NF-type services furnished to all classes of patients are subtracted from total inpatient routine service costs before computing the average cost per diem for inpatient routine hospital care.

(ii) The cost per diem attributable to the routine SNF-type services covered by Medicare is based on the regional Medicare swing-bed SNF rate in effect for a given calendar year, as described in ยง 413.114(c). The Medicare SNF rate applies only to days covered and paid as Medicare days. When Medicare coverage runs out, the Medicare rate no longer applies.

(iii) The cost per diem attributable to all non-Medicare swing-bed days is based on the average statewide Medicaid NF rate for the prior calendar year, adjusted to approximate the average NF rate for the current calendar year.

(iv) The sum of total Medicare SNF-type days multiplied by the cost per diem attributable to Medicare SNF-type services and the total NF-type days multiplied by the cost per diem attributable to all non-Medicare days is subtracted from total inpatient general routine service costs. The cost per diem for inpatient routine hospital care is computed based on the remaining inpatient routine service costs.
