
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart D - Apportionment
###### ยง 413.53 Determination of cost of services to beneficiaries.
####### Criteria for identifying intensive care type units.

(d)For purposes of determining costs under this section, a unit will be identified as an intensive care type inpatient hospital unit only if the unit-

(1) Is in a hospital;

(2) Is physically and identifiably separate from general routine patient care areas, including subintensive or intermediate care units, and ancillary service areas. There cannot be a concurrent sharing f nursing staff between an intensive care type unit and units or areas furnishing different levels or types of care. However, two or more intensive care type units that concurrently share nursing staff can be reimbursed as one combined intensive care type unit if all other criteria are met. Float nurses (nurses who work in different units on an as-needed basis) can be utilized in the intensive care type unit. If a float nurse works in two different units during the same eight hour shift, then the costs must be allocated to the appropriate units depending upon the time spent in those units. The hospital must maintain adequate records to support the allocation. If such records are not available, then the costs must be allocated to the general routine services cost areas;

(3) Has specific written policies that include criteria for admission to, and discharge from, the unit;

(4) Has registered nursing care available on a continuous 24-hour basis with at least one registered nurse present in the unit at all times;

(5) Maintains a minimum nurse-patient ratio of one nurse to two patients per patient day. Included in the calculation of this nurse-patient ratio are registered nurses, licensed vocational nurses, licensed practical nurses, and nursing assistants who provide patient care. Not included are general support personnel such as ward clerks, custodians, and housekeeping personnel; and

(6) Is equipped, or has available for immediate use, life-saving equipment necessary to treat the critically ill patients for which it is designed. This equipment may include, but is not limited to, respiratory and cardiac monitoring equipment, respirators, cardiac defibrillators, and wall or canister oxygen and compressed air.
