
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### ยง 413.64 Payments to providers: Specific rules.
####### Interim payments during initial reporting period.

(c)At the beginning of the program or when a provider first participates in the program, it will be necessary to establish interim rates of payment to providers of services. Once a provider has filed a cost report under the Medicare program, the cost report may be used as a basis for determining the interim rate of reimbursement for the following period. However, since initially there is no previous history of cost under the program, the interim rate of payment must be determined by other methods, including the following:

(1) If the contractor is already paying the provider on a cost or cost-related basis, the contractor will adjust its rate of payment to the program's principles of reimbursement. This rate may be either an amount per inpatient day, or a percent of the provider's charges for services furnished to the program's beneficiaries.

(2) If an organization other than the contractor is paying the provider for services on a cost or cost-related basis, the contractor may obtain from that organization or from the provider itself the rate of payment being used and other cost information as may be needed to adjust that rate of payment to give recognition to the program's principles of reimbursement.

(3) It no organization is paying the provider on a cost or cost-related basis, the contractor will obtain the previous year's financial statement from the provider. By analysis of such statement in light of the principles of reimbursement, the contractor will compute an appropriate rate of payment.

(4) After the initial interim rate has been set, the provider may at any time request, and be allowed, an appropriate increase in the computed rate, upon presentation of satisfactory evidence to the contractor that costs have increased. Likewise, the contractor may adjust the interim rate of payment if it has evidence that actual costs may fall significantly below the computed rate.
