
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### ยง 413.64 Payments to providers: Specific rules.
####### Retroactive adjustment.

(f)(1) Medicare provides that providers of services will be paid amounts determined to be due, but not less often than monthly, with necessary adjustments due to previously made overpayments or underpayments. Interim payments are made on the basis of estimated costs. Actual costs reimbursable to a provider cannot be determined until the cost reports are filed and costs are verified. Therefore, a retroactive adjustment will be made at the end of the reporting period to bring the interim payments made to the provider during the period into agreement with the reimbursable amount payable to the provider for the services furnished to program beneficiaries during that period.

(2) In order to reimburse the provider as quickly as possible, an initial retroactive adjustment will be made as soon as the cost report is received. For this purpose, the costs will be accepted as reported, unless there are obvious errors or inconsistencies, subject to later audit. When an audit is made and the final liability of the program is determined, a final adjustment will be made.

(3) To determine the retroactive adjustment, the amount of the provider's total allowable cost apportioned to the program for the reporting year is computed. This is the total amount of reimbursement the provider is due to receive from the program and the beneficiaries for covered services furnished during the reporting period. The total of the interim payments made by the program in the reporting year and the deductibles and coinsurance amounts receivable from beneficiaries is computed. The difference between the reimbursement due and the payments made is the amount of the retroactive adjustment.
