
# Title 42 - Public Health
## Chapter IV - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Medicare Program
#### PART 413 - PRINCIPLES OF REASONABLE COST REIMBURSEMENT; PAYMENT FOR END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE SERVICES; PROSPECTIVELY DETERMINED PAYMENT RATES FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES; PAYMENT FOR ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY DIALYSIS
##### Subpart E - Payments to Providers
###### § 413.64 Payments to providers: Specific rules.
####### Covered services furnished on or after July 1, 1987.

(2)Effective with claims received on or after July l, 1987, or as otherwise specified, the periodic interim payment (PIP) method is available for the following:

(i) Part A inpatient services furnished in hospitals that are excluded from the prospective payment systems, as specified in § 412.1(a)(1) of this chapter under subpart B of part 412 of this subchapter, or are paid under the prospective payment systems described in subpart N, O, and P of part 412 of this chapter.

(ii) Part A services furnished in hospitals receiving payment in accordance with a demonstration project authorized under section 402(a) of Public Law 90-248 (42 U.S.C. 1395b-1) or section 222(a) of Public Law 92-603 (42 U.S.C. 1395b-1 (note)), or a State reimbursement control system approved under section 1886(c) of the Act and subpart C of part 403 of this chapter, if that type of payment is specifically approved by CMS as an integral part of the demonstration or control system. If that type of payment is not an integral part of the demonstration or control system, PIP is available for the hospital under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section for hospitals excluded from the prospective payment systems or under § 412.116(b) of this chapter for prospective payment hospitals.

(iii) Part A SNF services furnished in cost reporting periods beginning before July 1, 1998. (For services furnished in subsequent cost reporting periods, see § 413.350 regarding periodic interim payments for skilled nursing facilities).

(iv) Part A services furnished in hospitals paid under the prospective payment system, including distinct part psychiatric or rehabilitation units, as described in § 412.116(b) of this chapter.

(v) Services furnished in a hospice as specified in part 418 of this chapter. Payment on a PIP basis is described in § 418.307 of this chapter.

(vi) Effective for payments made on or after July 1, 2004, inpatient CAH services furnished by a CAH as specified in § 413.70. Payment on a PIP basis is described in § 413.70(d).

(3) Any participating provider furnishing the services described in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section that establishes to the satisfaction of the contractor that it meets the following requirements may elect to be reimbursed under the PIP method, beginning with the first month after its request that the contractor finds administratively feasible:

(i) The provider's estimated total Medicare reimbursement for inpatient services is at least $25,000 a year computed under the PIP formula or, in the case of an HHA, either its estimated-

(A) Total Medicare reimbursement for Part A and Part B services is at least $25,000 a year computed under the PIP formula; or

(B) Medicare reimbursement computed under the PIP formula is at least 50 percent of estimated total allowable cost.

(ii) The provider has filed at least one completed Medicare cost report accepted by the contractor as providing an accurate basis for computation of program payment (except in the case of a provider requesting reimbursement under the PIP method upon first entering the Medicare program).

(iii) The provider has the continuing capability of maintaining in its records the cost, charge, and statistical data needed to accurately complete a Medicare cost report on a timely basis.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) The contractor's approval of a provider's request for reimbursement under the PIP method will be conditioned upon the contractor's best judgment as to whether payment can be made to the provider under the PIP method without undue risk of its resulting in an overpayment because of greatly varying or substantially declining Medicare utilization, inadequate billing practices, or other circumstances. The contractor may terminate PIP reimbursement to a provider at any time it determines that the provider no longer meets the qualifying requirements or that the provider's experience under the PIP method shows that proper payment cannot be made under this method.

(6) Payment will be made biweekly under the PIP method unless the provider requests a longer fixed interval (not to exceed one month) between payments. The payment amount will be computed by the contractor to approximate, on the average, the cost of covered inpatient or home health services furnished by the provider during the period for which the payment is to be made, and each payment will be made two weeks after the end of such period of services. Upon request, the contractor will, if feasible, compute the provider's payments to recognize significant seasonal variation in Medicare utilization of services on a quarterly basis starting with the beginning of the provider's reporting year.

(7) A provider's PIP amount may be appropriately adjusted at any time if the provider presents or the contractor otherwise obtains evidence relating to the provider's costs or Medicare utilization that warrants such adjustment. In addition, the contractor will recompute the payment immediately upon completion of the desk review of a provider's cost report and also at regular intervals not less often than quarterly. The contractor may make a retroactive lump sum interim payment to a provider, based upon an increase in its PIP amount, in order to bring past interim payments for the provider's current cost reporting period into line with the adjusted payment amount. The objective of contractor monitoring of provider costs and utilization is to assure payments approximating, as closely as possible, the reimbursement to be determined at settlement for the cost reporting period. A significant factor in evaluating the amount of the payment in terms of the realization of the projected Medicare utilization of services is the timely submittal to the contractor of completed admission and billing forms. All providers must complete billings in detail under this method as under regular interim payment procedures.
