
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 597 - FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations
###### ยง 597.101 Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Differing statutory authority and foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.

(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations. This part does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any other part of this chapter, including (but not limited to) the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, part 595 of this chapter, and does not excuse any person from complying with any other part of this chapter, including (but not limited to) part 595 of this chapter.

(c) This part does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any criminal statute, including (but not limited to) 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 2339A, and does not excuse any person from complying with any criminal statute, including (but not limited to) 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 18 U.S.C. 2339A.
