
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VI - Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 605 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING BUILDINGS AND ON THE GROUNDS OF WASHINGTON, DC AND FORT WORTH, TEXAS
##### ยง 605.1 Conduct on Bureau of Engraving and Printing property.
###### Limited access.

(b)(1) The property is a high-security facility and shall, in general, be closed to the public. Except as specified in this paragraph (b), access is limited to BEP employees and those persons having official business with BEP. Failure to comply with any regulations of this part may result in denial of access or removal from the property.

(2) Public tours of limited areas of the property are available during such times as the Director may prescribe.

(3) Limited areas of the property may be open to persons authorized by the Director or the Director's designee.

(4) All persons entering and exiting the property may be required to present suitable identification and may be required to sign entry logs or registers.

(5) All persons entering and exiting the property may be subject to screening devices and shall submit to screening upon request by BEP Police or authorized officials.

(6) All persons entering and exiting the property may be subject to search or inspection of their person, handbags, briefcases, and other handheld articles by BEP Police or authorized officials. All persons on the property may be subject to additional search or inspection by BEP Police or authorized officials upon entry, exit, and request.

(7) All motor vehicles entering, exiting, or located on the property are subject to search or inspection of the exterior and interior compartments by BEP Police or authorized officials at any time.

(8) All lockers, cabinets, closets, desks or similar storage areas on the property are subject to search or inspection by BEP Police or authorized officials.

(9) All computers, data storage devices, and data files owned or controlled by BEP are subject to search or inspection at any time.

(10) Any entrance onto the property without official permission is prohibited.
