
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 800 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES BY FOREIGN PERSONS
##### Subpart D - Declarations
###### § 800.404 Contents of declarations.
####### et seq.

(13) A statement as to whether the U.S. business participated in a Defense Production Act Title III Program (50 U.S.C. 4501) within the past seven years.

(14) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has received or placed priority rated contracts or orders under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation (15 CFR part 700), and the level(s) of priority of such contracts or orders ("DX" or "DO") within the past three years.

(15) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.

(16) The address of the foreign person and its ultimate parent.

(17) Complete organizational charts, both pre- and post-transaction, including information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:

(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;

(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent;

(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent; and

(iv) The U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, both before and after completion of the transaction.

(18) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.

(19) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports.

(20) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).

(21) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the U.S. business, the foreign person, any parent of the foreign person, or any person of which the foreign person is a parent has been convicted in the last 10 years of a crime in any jurisdiction.

(22) If applicable, a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of any critical technology that the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops, and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) under the EAR and the USML categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether there are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810; nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110; or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73.

(23) If applicable, a statement as to which functions set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part that the U.S. business performs with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure, including a description of such functions and the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure.

(24) If applicable:

(i) The category or categories of data, as specified at § 800.241, that the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects;

(ii) For each applicable category of data specified in § 800.241, individually and in the aggregate, the approximate number of total unique persons from whom:

(A) The data is currently maintained, and

(B) The data has been maintained or collected at any point during the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B);

(iii) Whether the U.S. business has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in § 800.241(a)(1)(ii) of greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services.

(iv) Whether the U.S. business targets or tailors products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or to personnel or contractors thereof.

(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

(e) A party that offers a stipulation under paragraph (c)(3) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered investment, a covered control transaction, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction.
