
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 800 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES BY FOREIGN PERSONS
##### Subpart I - Penalties and Damages
###### § 800.901 Penalties and damages.

(a) Any person who submits a declaration or notice with a material misstatement or omission or makes a false certification under § 800.404, § 800.405, or § 800.502 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation. The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.

(b) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of § 800.401 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.

(c) Any person who, after December 22, 2008, violates, intentionally or through gross negligence, a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into before October 11, 2018, with, a material condition imposed before October 11, 2018, by, or an order issued before October 11, 2018, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after October 11, 2018, with, a material condition imposed on or after October 11, 2018, by, or an order issued on or after October 11, 2018, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous two sentences, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.

(d) A mitigation agreement entered into or amended under section 721(l) after December 22, 2008, may include a provision providing for liquidated or actual damages for breaches of the agreement. The mitigation agreement shall specify the amount of any liquidated damages that are a reasonable assessment of the harm to the national security that could result from a breach of the agreement. Any mitigation agreement containing a liquidated damages provision shall include a provision specifying that the Committee may consider the severity of the breach in deciding whether to seek a lesser amount than that stipulated in the agreement.
