
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 801 - PILOT PROGRAM TO REVIEW CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN PERSONS AND CRITICAL TECHNOLOGIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 801.101 Scope.

The regulations in this part implement a pilot program in accordance with section 1727(c) of the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. Pursuant to section 1727(c), the pilot program implements authorities provided in certain provisions of, or amendments made by, the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 that did not take effect on the date of its enactment. This pilot program expands the scope of transactions reviewable by CFIUS to include certain investments by foreign persons in certain U.S. businesses that produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop one or more critical technologies. The pilot program also requires that parties to a pilot program covered transaction notify CFIUS of the transaction by either submitting a declaration or filing a written notice. The regulations in this part supplement the existing regulations implementing section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, under part 800 to Title 31 CFR Chapter VIII, which remain in effect. The pilot program implemented through these regulations will end no later than the date on which the full regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 become effective, and in no event later than the date that is 570 days after the enactment of the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. These regulations will be amended, replaced, or removed no later than the date on which the pilot program ends.
