
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 801 - PILOT PROGRAM TO REVIEW CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN PERSONS AND CRITICAL TECHNOLOGIES
##### Subpart B - Definitions
###### ยง 801.204 Critical technologies.
####### critical technologies

The termmeans the following:

(a) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List set forth in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120-130).

(b) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR parts 730-774) and controlled:

(1) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or

(2) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening.

(c) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810 (relating to assistance to foreign atomic energy activities).

(d) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110 (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material).

(e) Select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73.

(f) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018.
