
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 802 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Coverage
###### ยง 802.301 Transactions that are covered real estate transactions.

Transactions that are covered real estate transactions include:

(a) A transaction that meets the criteria of ยง 802.212, including where a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) enters into a purchase or lease of, or obtains a concession to, covered real estate either directly or indirectly. (See the examples in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.)

(b) A purchase by a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of less than full ownership of covered real estate that nevertheless affords the foreign person at least three property rights with respect to the covered real estate. (See the example in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.)

(c) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of real estate, a portion of which is covered real estate with respect to which the foreign person has at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.)

(d) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of a portion of covered real estate with respect to which the foreign person has at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.)

(e) A purchase, lease, or assignment of a concession, of covered real estate that meets the criteria of ยง 802.212 by one foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) from another foreign person. (See the example in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.)

(f) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of covered real estate, that, through a subsequent change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to covered real estate, results in the foreign person having at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.)

(g) A transaction the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of this part.

(h) Examples:
