
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 802 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart D - Declarations
###### ยง 802.402 Contents of declarations.
####### e.g.,

(iii) A description of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction including the approximate size (in acres, feet, or other appropriate measurement); nature of the real estate (zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); and current use of the real estate including any physical security measures.

(iv) A description of the plans of the foreign person with respect to the real estate and structures that are or will be on the real estate; and

(v) A description of any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals associated with the real estate, including whether any involve the U.S. Government.

(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will have any of the following rights or abilities with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction:

(i) To physically access the real estate;

(ii) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;

(iii) To improve or develop the real estate; or

(iv) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.

(5) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.

(6) The address and principal place of business of the foreign person and its ultimate parent.

(7) A complete pre-transaction organizational chart (and post-transaction, if different) including, information that identifies the name, principal place of business, place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:

(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;

(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and

(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.

(8) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.

(9) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities.

(10) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation.

(11) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).

(12) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the holder of the real estate, the foreign person, any parent of the foreign person, or any person of which the foreign person is a parent, has been convicted in the last 10 years of a crime in any jurisdiction.

(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with ยง 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

(e) A party that offers a stipulation under paragraph (c)(10) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction.

(f) In the case of a transaction where a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction and is not submitting a declaration, the other party or parties to the transaction shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to the U.S. public entity.
