
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 802 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart E - Notices
###### ยง 802.503 Beginning of 45-day review period.

(a) The Staff Chairperson shall accept a voluntary notice the next business day after the Staff Chairperson has:

(1) Determined that the notice complies with ยง 802.502;

(2) Confirmed that the applicable fee required under subpart K of this part has been received by the Department of the Treasury, or waived; and

(3) Disseminated the notice to all members of the Committee.

(b) A 45-day period for review of a transaction shall commence on the date on which the voluntary notice has been accepted, agency notice has been received by the Staff Chairperson, or the Chairperson of the Committee has requested a notice under ยง 802.501(b). Such review shall end no later than the forty-fifth day after it has commenced, or if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.

(c) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly advise in writing all parties to a transaction that have filed a voluntary notice of:

(1) The acceptance of the notice;

(2) The date on which the review begins; and

(3) The designation of any lead agency or agencies.

(d) Within two business days after receipt of an agency notice by the Staff Chairperson, the Staff Chairperson shall send written advice of such notice to the parties to the transaction that is subject to the notice. Such written advice shall identify the date on which the review began.

(e) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly circulate to all Committee members any draft pre-filing notice, any agency notice, any complete notice, and any subsequent information filed by the parties.
