
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 802 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart E - Notices
###### ยง 802.502 Contents of voluntary notices.
####### 10

() Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and

(vii) The following "business identifier information" for the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents of the foreign person engaged in the transaction, including their main offices and branches:

(A) Business name, including all names under which the business is known to be or has been doing business;

(B) Business address;

(C) Business phone number, website address, and email address; and

(D) Employer identification number or other domestic tax or corporate identification number.

(c) The voluntary notice shall list any filings with, or reports to, agencies of the U.S. Government that have been or will be made with respect to the transaction prior to its completion, indicating the agencies concerned, the nature of the filing or report, the date on which it was filed or the estimated date by which it will be filed, and a relevant contact point and/or telephone number within the agency, if known.

(d) In the case of the establishment of a joint venture in which one or more of the parties is contributing covered real estate, information for the voluntary notice shall be prepared on the assumption that the foreign person that is party to the joint venture has made a purchase or lease, or been granted a concession to, the covered real estate that the other party to the joint venture is contributing or transferring to the joint venture. The voluntary notice shall describe the name and address of the joint venture and the entities that established, or are establishing, the joint venture.

(e) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee or the President, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts and circumstances addressed in the notice, and information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under this section, and shall file amendments to the notice to reflect such material changes. Such amendments shall become part of the notice filed by such persons under ยง 802.501, and the certifications required under paragraphs (h) and (l) of this section shall apply to such amendments.

(f) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include:

(1) A complete pre-transaction organizational chart (and post-transaction, if different) including, information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:

(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;

(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and

(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.

(2) The opinion of the person regarding whether:

(i) It is a foreign person;

(ii) It is controlled by a foreign government; and

(iii) The transaction has resulted or could result in a foreign person being afforded property rights with respect to covered real estate, and the reasons for its view, focusing in particular on any powers (for example, by virtue of an agreement, statute, or regulation) that the foreign person will have with regard to the covered real estate, and how those powers can or will be exercised.

(g) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include information as to whether:

(1) Any party to the transaction is, or has been, a party to a mitigation agreement entered into or condition imposed under section 721, and if so, shall specify the date and purpose of such agreement or condition and the U.S. Government signatories; and

(2) Any party to the transaction (including such party's parents, subsidiaries, or entities under common control with the party) has been a party to a transaction previously notified to the Committee.

(h) Each party filing a voluntary notice shall provide a certification of the notice consistent with ยง 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

(i) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include with the notice a list identifying each document provided as part of the notice, including all documents provided as attachments or exhibits to the narrative response.

(j) A party filing a voluntary notice may stipulate that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction. A stipulation offered by any party under this section must be accompanied by a detailed description of the basis for the stipulation. A party that offers such a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction.

(k) In the case of a transaction where a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction, the notifying party or parties may be the non-U.S. public entity. Each notifying party shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to the U.S. public entity.

(l) At the conclusion of a review or investigation, each party that has filed additional information subsequent to the original notice shall file a final certification. (See ยง 802.202.) A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
