
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter VIII - Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 802 - REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart I - Penalties and Damages
###### ยง 802.901 Penalties and damages.

(a) Any person who submits a declaration or notice with a material misstatement or omission or makes a false certification under ยง 802.402, ยง 802.403, or ยง 802.502 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation. The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.

(b) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement with, a material condition imposed by, or an order issued by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.

(c) A mitigation agreement entered into or amended under section 721(l) may include a provision providing for liquidated or actual damages for breaches of the agreement. The mitigation agreement shall specify the amount of any liquidated damages that are a reasonable assessment of the harm to the national security that could result from a breach of the agreement. Any mitigation agreement containing a liquidated damages provision shall include a provision specifying that the Committee may consider the severity of the breach in deciding whether to seek a lesser amount than that stipulated in the agreement.
