
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter IX - Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury - Department of Justice)
#### PART 901 - STANDARDS FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
##### ยง 901.4 Reporting debts.

(a) Agencies shall develop and implement procedures for reporting delinquent debts to credit bureaus and other automated databases. Agencies also may develop procedures to report non-delinquent debts to credit bureaus. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(e).

(1) In developing procedures for reporting debts to credit bureaus, agencies shall comply with the Bankruptcy Code and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. The provisions of the Privacy Act do not apply to credit bureaus.

(2) Agency procedures for reporting delinquent consumer debts to credit bureaus shall be consistent with the due process and other requirements contained in 31 U.S.C. 3711(e). When an agency has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, the agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before reporting that delinquent consumer debt to credit bureaus.

(b) Agencies should report delinquent debts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS). For information about the CAIVRS program, agencies should contact the Director of Information Resources Management Policy and Management Division, Office of Information Technology, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410.
