
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter X - Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 1010 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C - Reports Required To Be Made
###### ยง 1010.350 Reports of foreign financial accounts.
####### Exceptions for certain accounts.

(4)(i) An account of a department or agency of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any State or any political subdivision of a State, or a wholly-owned entity, agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing is not required to be reported. In addition, reporting is not required with respect to an account of an entity established under the laws of the United States, of an Indian Tribe, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State, or under an intergovernmental compact between two or more States or Indian Tribes, that exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any such State or political subdivision. For this purpose, an entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, a State, or a political subdivision only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the power of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction.

(ii) An account of an international financial institution of which the United States government is a member is not required to be reported.

(iii) An account in an institution known as a "United States military banking facility" (or "United States military finance facility") operated by a United States financial institution designated by the United States Government to serve United States government installations abroad is not required to be reported even though the United States military banking facility is located in a foreign country.

(iv) Correspondent or nostro accounts that are maintained by banks and used solely for bank-to-bank settlements are not required to be reported.
