
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter X - Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 1010 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C - Reports Required To Be Made
###### § 1010.360 Reports of transactions with foreign financial agencies.
####### Information subject to reporting requirements.

(b)A regulation promulgated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall designate one or more of the following categories of information to be reported:

(1) Checks or drafts, including traveler's checks, received by respondent financial institution for collection or credit to the account of a foreign financial agency, sent by respondent financial institution to a foreign country for collection or payment, drawn by respondent financial institution on a foreign financial agency, drawn by a foreign financial agency on respondent financial institution-including the following information.

(i) Name of maker or drawer;

(ii) Name of drawee or drawee financial institution;

(iii) Name of payee;

(iv) Date and amount of instrument;

(v) Names of all endorsers.

(2) Transmittal orders received by a respondent financial institution from a foreign financial agency or sent by respondent financial institution to a foreign financial agency, including all information maintained by that institution pursuant to §§ 1010.410 and 1020.410.

(3) Loans made by respondent financial institution to or through a foreign financial agency-including the following information:

(i) Name of borrower;

(ii) Name of person acting for borrower;

(iii) Date and amount of loan;

(iv) Terms of repayment;

(v) Name of guarantor;

(vi) Rate of interest;

(vii) Method of disbursing proceeds;

(viii) Collateral for loan.

(4) Commercial paper received or shipped by the respondent financial institution-including the following information:

(i) Name of maker;

(ii) Date and amount of paper;

(iii) Due date;

(iv) Certificate number;

(v) Amount of transaction.

(5) Stocks received or shipped by respondent financial institution-including the following information:

(i) Name of corporation;

(ii) Type of stock;

(iii) Certificate number;

(iv) Number of shares;

(v) Date of certificate;

(vi) Name of registered holder;

(vii) Amount of transaction.

(6) Bonds received or shipped by respondent financial institution-including the following information:

(i) Name of issuer;

(ii) Bond number;

(iii) Type of bond series;

(iv) Date issued;

(v) Due date;

(vi) Rate of interest;

(vii) Amount of transaction;

(viii) Name of registered holder.

(7) Certificates of deposit received or shipped by respondent financial institution-including the following information:

(i) Name and address of issuer;

(ii) Date issued;

(iii) Dollar amount;

(iv) Name of registered holder;

(v) Due date;

(vi) Rate of interest;

(vii) Certificate number;

(viii) Name and address of issuing agent.
