
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 17 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
#### ยง 17.170 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.

(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) All other complaints alleging violations of section 504 may be sent to the Director, Office of Equal Opportunity Program, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Departmental Finance and Management shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section.

(d)(1) Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by him or herself or by his or her authorized representative file a complaint. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a complaint.

(2) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints over which it has jurisdiction.

(3) All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the agency receive a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(g)(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(ii) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.

(2) Agency employees are required to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.

(3) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant. The written agreement shall describe the subject matter of the complaint and any corrective action to which the parties have agreed.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 60 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by ยง 17.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Director, Human Resources Directorate, or his or her designee, who will issue the final agency decision which may include appropriate corrective action to be taken by the agency.

(j) The agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 30 days of the receipt of the appeal. If the agency determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 30 days from the date it received the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended for an individual case when the Assistant Secretary for Departmental Finance and Management determines that there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case, for the extension.

(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies or may contract with a nongovernment investigator to perform the investigation, but the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
