
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter X - Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 1010 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart H - Enforcement; Penalties; and Forfeiture
###### § 1010.810 Enforcement.
####### et seq.

(6) To the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to brokers and dealers in securities and investment companies as that term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-1);

(7) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to §§ 1010.340 and 1010.830;

(8) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with respect to all financial institutions, except brokers or dealers in securities, mutual funds, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors, not currently examined by Federal bank supervisory agencies for soundness and safety; and

(9) To the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors.

(10) To the Federal Housing Finance Agency with respect to the housing government sponsored enterprises, as defined in § 1010.100(mmm) of this part.

(c) Authority for investigating criminal violations of this chapter is delegated as follows:

(1) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to § 1010.340;

(2) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue except with respect to § 1010.340.

(d) Authority for the imposition of civil penalties for violations of this chapter lies with the Director of FinCEN.

(e) Periodic reports shall be made to the Director, FinCEN by each agency to which compliance authority has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section. These reports shall be in such a form and submitted at such intervals as the Director, FinCEN may direct. Evidence of specific violations of any of the requirements of this chapter may be submitted to the Director, FinCEN at any time.

(f) The Director, FinCEN or his delegate, and any agency to which compliance has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section, may examine any books, papers, records, or other data of domestic financial institutions relevant to the recordkeeping or reporting requirements of this chapter.

(g) The authority to enforce the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 5314 and §§ 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter has been redelegated from FinCEN to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue by means of a Memorandum of Agreement between FinCEN and IRS. Such authority includes, with respect to 31 U.S.C. 5314 and 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter, the authority to: assess and collect civil penalties under 31 U.S.C. 5321 and 31 CFR 1010.820; investigate possible civil violations of these provisions (in addition to the authority already provided at paragraph (c)(2)) of this section); employ the summons power of subpart I of this part 1010; issue administrative rulings under subpart G of this part 1010; and take any other action reasonably necessary for the enforcement of these and related provisions, including pursuit of injunctions.
