
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter X - Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 1022 - RULES FOR MONEY SERVICES BUSINESSES
##### Subpart C - Reports Required To Be Made By Money Services Businesses
###### ยง 1022.380 Registration of money services businesses.
####### List of agents,In general.

(d)-(1)A money services business must prepare and maintain a list of its agents. The initial list of agents must be prepared by January 1, 2002, and must be revised each January 1, for the immediately preceding 12 month period; for money services businesses established after December 31, 2001, the initial agent list must be prepared by the due date of the initial registration form and must be revised each January 1 for the immediately preceding 12-month period. The list is not filed with the registration form but must be maintained at the location in the United States reported on the registration form under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Upon request, a money services business must make its list of agents available to FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority). Requests for information made pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be coordinated through FinCEN in the manner and to the extent determined by FinCEN. The original list of agents and any revised list must be retained for the period specified in ยง 1010.430(d) of this chapter.
