
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter X - Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 1030 - RULES FOR HOUSING GOVERNMENT SPONSORED ENTERPRISES
##### Subpart B - Programs
###### ยง 1030.210 Anti-money laundering programs for housing government sponsored enterprises.
####### Minimum requirements.

(b)At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:

(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the housing government sponsored enterprise's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its products and services. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a housing government sponsored enterprise under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this part, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.

(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:

(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;

(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and

(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. A housing government sponsored enterprise may satisfy this requirement by training such persons or verifying that such persons have received training by a competent third party with respect to the products and services offered by the housing government sponsored enterprise.

(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the housing government sponsored enterprise's products and services. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the housing government sponsored enterprise, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
