
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 23 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
#### Subpart D - Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
##### ยง 23.42 Complaints.

(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with Treasury, alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act or these regulations based on an action occurring on or after July 1, 1979. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause shown, Treasury may extend this time limit.

(b) Treasury will consider the date a complaint is filed to be the date upon which the complaint is sufficient to be processed.

(c) Treasury will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:

(1) Accepting as a sufficient complaint any written statement that identifies the parties involved and the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation, describes generally the action or practice complained of, and is signed by the complainant.

(2) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.

(3) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights and obligations under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint resolution process.

(4) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact Treasury for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.

(d) Treasury will notify the complainant when the complaint falls outside the jurisdiction of these regulations, and will state the reason(s) why it is outside the jurisdiction of these regulations.
