
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 25 - PREPAYMENT OF FOREIGN MILITARY SALES LOANS MADE BY THE DEFENSE SECURITY ASSISTANCE AGENCY AND FOREIGN MILITARY SALES LOANS MADE BY THE FEDERAL FINANCING BANK AND GUARANTEED BY THE DEFENSE SECURITY ASSISTANCE AGENCY
#### Subpart C - Procedures
##### ยง 25.303 Closing procedure.
###### FMS loans held by DSAA.

(a)(1) After the Treasury has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by DSAA, as the case may be, DSAA will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower and DSAA. DSAA will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by DSAA of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.

(2) On the Closing Date, the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan shall be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.

(3) The attachment of the Guaranty to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, will take place at such location as may be designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower and DSAA.

(4) Prior to 1:00 p.m. prevailing local time in New York, New York, on the Closing Date, immediately available funds in amounts sufficient to prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be transferred by electronic funds transfer to DSAA at the Treasury Department account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The funds transfer message must include the following credit information:
