
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 26 - ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF ACTIONS BY MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANDS (MDBs)
#### ยง 26.4 Comments on MDB projects.
##### Public comments,Written comments

(a)-(1)(i) A member of the public wishing to provide written comments on a MDB project must provide 2 copies of the comments to the Office of Multilateral Development Banks, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., room 5400, Washington, DC 20220. Written comments should be submitted not later than two weeks after the member of the public has access to the particular document on which it wishes to offer comments-either the project listing, the EIA Summary, or the EIA for a particular project. Written public comments will be provided by the MDB Office to the U.S. Government agencies participating in meetings of the Working Group for Multilateral Assistance (WGMA), which meetings are described in ยง 26.4(c). The WGMA is an intergovernmental subcommittee of the Development Coordination Committee whose functions are set forth in the Presidential announcement of May 19, 1978, Vol. 14, No. 20, p. 932 of the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents. The WGMA meets to discuss the U.S. position on upcoming MDB projects.

(ii) All written comments will be available for inspection and copying in their entirety in the Department of the Treasury Library, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC ((202) 622-0990). Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library before they visit, and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier.
