
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 27 - CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT FOR MISUSE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY NAMES, SYMBOLS, ETC.
#### ยง 27.6 Written response.

(a)(1) A person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment may make a written response explaining why the civil penalty should not be imposed, explaining why a civil monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed and/or explaining why the terms of a proposed civil or equitable remedy should be modified. The written response must provide:

(i) A reference to and specifically identify the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;

(ii) The full name of the person charged;

(iii) If not a natural person, the name and title of the head of the organization charged; and

(iv) If a representative of the person charged is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.

(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of ยง 27.3 charged in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any charge not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a charge is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the charge is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the person charged is not the person responsible for the misuse(s) charged, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the agency to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and/or other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.
