
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 29 - FEDERAL BENEFIT PAYMENTS UNDER CERTAIN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA RETIREMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Split Benefits
##### ยง 29.301 Purpose and scope.

(a) The purpose of this subpart is to addresses the legal and policy issues that affect the calculation of the Federal and District of Columbia portions of benefits under subtitle A of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, and 786-787 enacted August 5, 1997, as amended.

(1) This subpart states general principles for the calculation of Federal Benefit Payments in cases in which the Department and the District government are both responsible for paying a portion of an employee's total retirement benefits under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.

(2) This subpart provides illustrative examples of sample computations to show the application of the general principles to specific problems.

(b)(1) This subpart applies only to benefits under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan for individuals who have performed service creditable under these programs on or before June 30, 1997.

(2) This subpart addresses only those issues that affect the split of fiscal responsibility for retirement benefits (that is, the calculation of Federal Benefit Payments).

(3) Issues relating to determination and review of eligibility and payments, and financial management, are beyond the scope of this subpart.

(c) This subpart does not apply to benefit calculations under the Judges Plan.
