
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 30 - TARP STANDARDS FOR COMPENSATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
#### ยง 30.1 Q-1: What definitions apply in this part?
##### Long-term restricted stock.

The term "long-term restricted stock" means restricted stock or restricted stock units that include the following features:

(1) The restricted stock or restricted stock units are issued with respect to common stock of the TARP recipient. For this purpose, a restricted stock unit includes a unit that is payable, or may be payable, in cash or stock, provided that the value of the payment is equal to the value of the underlying stock. With respect to a specified division or other unit within a TARP recipient or a TARP recipient that is not a stock corporation, a unit analogous to common stock may be used. For this purpose, a unit is analogous to common stock if applied as if the entity, division, or other unit were a corporation with one class of common stock and the number of units of common stock granted is determined based on a fixed percentage of the overall value of this corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a particular employee recipient, the corporation the stock of which is utilized (or the entity, division, or other unit the value of which forms the basis for the unit) must be an "eligible issuer of service recipient stock" under 26 CFR 1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E) (applied by analogy to non-corporate entities).

(2) The restricted stock or restricted stock unit may not become transferable (as defined in 26 CFR 1.83-3(d)), or payable as applied to a restricted stock unit, at any time earlier than permitted under the following schedule (except as necessary to reflect a merger or acquisition of the TARP recipient):

(i) 25% of the shares or units granted at the time of repayment of 25% of the aggregate financial assistance received.

(ii) An additional 25% of the shares or units granted (for an aggregate total of 50% of the shares or units granted) at the time of repayment of 50% of the aggregate financial assistance received.

(iii) An additional 25% of the shares or units granted (for an aggregate total of 75% of the shares or units granted) at the time of repayment of 75% of the aggregate financial assistance received.

(iv) The remainder of the shares or units granted at the time of repayment of 100% of the aggregate financial assistance received.

(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of restricted stock for which the employee does not make an election under section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 83(b)), at any time beginning with the date upon which the stock becomes substantially vested (as defined in 26 CFR 1.83-3(b)) and ending on December 31 of the calendar year including that date, a portion of the restricted stock may be made transferable as may reasonably be required to pay the Federal, State, local, or foreign taxes that are anticipated to apply to the income recognized due to this vesting, and the amounts made transferable for this purpose shall not count toward the percentages in the schedule above.

(4) The employee must be required to forfeit the restricted stock or restricted stock unit if the employee does not continue performing substantial services for the TARP recipient for at least two years from the date of grant, other than due to the employee's death or disability, or a change in control event (as defined in 26 CFR 1.280G-1, Q&A-27 through Q&A-29 or as defined in 26 CFR 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i)) with respect to the TARP recipient before the second anniversary of the date of grant.

(5) Nothing in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this definition is intended to prevent the placement on such restricted stock or restricted stock unit of any additional restrictions, conditions, or limitations that are not inconsistent with the requirements of these paragraphs.
