
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 30 - TARP STANDARDS FOR COMPENSATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
#### ยง 30.10 Q-10: What actions are necessary for a TARP recipient to comply with section 111(b)(3)(D) of EESA (the limitations on bonus payments)?
##### Example.

(ii)During 2008, Employee A receives compensation of $1 million salary and a $1,200,000 long-term restricted stock grant subject to a three-year vesting period. During 2009, Employee A received compensation of $1 million salary and no grant of long-term restricted stock. During 2010, Employee A receives compensation of $600,000 salary and a $300,000 long-term restricted stock grant subject to a three-year vesting period. Under the general SEC compensation disclosure rules used to define annual compensation in ยง 30.1 (Q-1) of this part, the compensation related to the long-term restricted stock grants would be allocated over the vesting period. Assume for this purpose, that for 2010, $400,000 of the 2008 long-term restricted stock grant is allocated as compensation, and $100,000 of the 2010 long-term restricted stock grant is allocated as compensation, so that the total annual compensation is $1,100,000 ($600,000 salary + $400,000 + $100,000). However, for purposes of determining Employee A's annual compensation to apply the limit on the value of the long-term restricted stock that may be granted to Employee A in 2010, the entire $300,000 value of the 2010 grant is included but the $400,000 value attributed to the 2008 grant is excluded. Accordingly, Employee A's adjusted annual compensation is $900,000 ($1,100,000 - $100,000 + $300,000 - $400,000). In addition, the entire fair market value of the 2010 long-term restricted stock grant is included for purposes of determining whether the limit has been exceeded. Because the $300,000 adjusted value of the long-term restricted stock grant does not exceed one-third of the $900,000 adjusted annual compensation, the grant complies with paragraph (e)(1)(i).
