
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 30 - TARP STANDARDS FOR COMPENSATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
#### § 30.11 Q-11: Are TARP recipients required to meet any other standards under the executive compensation and corporate governance standards in section 111 of EESA?
##### Approval of compensation payments to, and compensation structures for, certain employees of TARP recipients receiving exceptional financial assistance.,see

(a)For any period during which a TARP recipient is designated as a TARP recipient that has received exceptional financial assistance, the TARP recipient must obtain the approval by the Special Master of all compensation payments to, and compensation structures for, SEOs and most highly compensated employees subject to paragraph (b) of § 30.10 (Q-10). TARP recipients that receive exceptional financial assistance must also receive approval by the Special Master for all compensation structures for other employees who are executive officers (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Act, Rule 3b-7) or one of the 100 most highly compensated employees of a TARP recipient receiving exceptional assistance (or both), who are not subject to the bonus limitations under § 30.10 (Q-10). For this purpose, compensation payments and compensation structures may include awards or other rights to compensation which an employee has already received but not yet been paid or, in some instances, fully accrued. Accordingly, the Special Master has the authority to require that such compensation payments or compensation structures be altered to meet the standards set forth in § 30.16 (Q-16). However, this approval requirement is not applicable to payments that are not subject to paragraph (a) of § 30.10 (Q-10) due to the application of paragraph (e)(2) of § 30.10 (Q-10) or the effective date provisions of § 30.17 (Q-17), though the Special Master will take such payments into account in reviewing the compensation structure and amounts payable, as applicable, that are subject to review. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, approval is not required with respect to an employee not subject to the bonus payment limitations to the extent that the employee's annual compensation, as modified in § 30.16 (Q-16) to include certain deferred compensation and pension accruals but to disregard any grant of long-term restricted stock, is limited to $500,000 or less, and any further compensation is provided in the form of long-term restricted stock. For details,§ 30.16 (Q-16).
