
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 30 - TARP STANDARDS FOR COMPENSATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
#### ยง 30.16 Q-16: What is the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, and what are its powers, duties and responsibilities?
##### Review of prior payments to employees.

(2)Section 111(f) of EESA provides that the Secretary shall review bonuses, retention awards, and other compensation paid before February 17, 2009, to employees of each entity receiving TARP assistance before February 17, 2009, to determine whether any such payments were inconsistent with the purposes of section 111 of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest. Section 111(f) of EESA provides that, if the Secretary makes such a determination, the Secretary shall seek to negotiate with the TARP recipient and the subject employee for appropriate reimbursements to the Federal Government with respect to compensation or bonuses. The Special Master shall have the responsibility for administering these provisions, including the identification of the payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest, and the Special Master shall have responsibility for the negotiation with the TARP recipient and the subject employee for appropriate reimbursements to the Federal Government with respect to compensation or bonuses. The Special Master shall make this determination by application of the principles outlined in paragraph (b) of this section. The Special Master's administration of these provisions may provide for the scope of review by the Special Master of a payment, including a limited review or no review, depending on the payment amount, the type of payment, the overall compensation earned by the employee during the relevant period, a combination thereof, or such other factors as the Special Master may determine, where the Special Master determines that such factors demonstrate that such payments are not, or are highly unlikely to be, inconsistent with the purposes of section 111 of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest, or that renegotiation of such payments is not in the public interest. The Special Master may request in writing any information from TARP recipients necessary to carry out the review of prior compensation required under section 111(f) of EESA. TARP recipients must submit any requested information to the Special Master within 30 days of the request.
