
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 30 - TARP STANDARDS FOR COMPENSATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
#### ยง 30.16 Q-16: What is the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation, and what are its powers, duties and responsibilities?
##### Advisory opinions on compensation structures or compensation payments to employees of TARP recipients.

(4)A TARP recipient or TARP recipient employee may request an advisory opinion from the Special Master as to whether a compensation structure is, or will or may result in payments that are, inconsistent with the purposes of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest. In addition, the Special Master may become aware of compensation structures or payments at any TARP recipient for which it may be useful to provide an advisory opinion as to whether such structure or payments meets this standard. Accordingly, the Special Master shall have the authority to render advisory opinions upon request or at the Special Master's initiative, as to whether a compensation structure is, or will or may result in payments to an employee that are inconsistent with the purposes of section 111 of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest, or whether a compensation payment made, or to be made, was or will be inconsistent with the purposes of section 111 of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest. If the Special Master renders an adverse opinion, the Special Master shall have the authority to seek to negotiate with the TARP recipient and the subject employee for appropriate reimbursements to the TARP recipient or the Federal government. Any advisory opinion shall reflect the Special Master's application of the principles outlined in paragraph (b) of this section. The Special Master shall not be required to render an advisory opinion in every instance, but may do so only where the Special Master deems appropriate and feasible in the context of the Special Master's other responsibilities. In any case, the Special Master shall render an opinion, or affirmatively decline to render an advisory opinion, within 60 days of the receipt of a substantially complete submission. The Special Master shall not be required to explain any decision to decline to render an advisory opinion.
