
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 31 - TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Conflicts of Interest
##### ยง 31.213 General standards.

(a) During the time period in which a retained entity is seeking an arrangement and during the term of any arrangement:

(1) The retained entity's officers, partners, or employees performing work under the arrangement shall not accept or solicit favors, gifts, or other items of monetary value above $20 from any individual or entity whom the retained entity, officer, partner, or employee knows is seeking official action from the Treasury in connection with the arrangement or has interests which may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of duties to the Treasury under the arrangement, provided that the total value of gifts from the same person or entity does not exceed $50 in any calendar year.

(2) The retained entity and its officers and partners, and its employees shall not improperly use or allow the improper use of Treasury property for the personal benefit of any individual or entity other than the Treasury.

(3) The retained entity and its officers and partners, and its employees shall not make any unauthorized promise or commitment on behalf of the Treasury.

(b) Any individual who acts for or on behalf of the Treasury pursuant to an arrangement shall comply with 18 U.S.C. 201, which generally prohibits the direct or indirect acceptance by a public official of anything of value in return for being influenced in, or because of, an official act. Violators are subject to criminal penalties.

(c) Any individual or entity that provides information or makes a certification to the Treasury that is relating to services under EESA or required pursuant to 31 CFR part 31 is subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which generally prohibits the making of any false or fraudulent statement to a federal officer. Upon receipt of information indicating that any individual or entity has violated any provision of title 18 of the U.S. Code or other provision of criminal law, Treasury shall refer such information to the Department of Justice and the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP).

(d) A retained entity shall disclose to the SIGTARP, any credible evidence, in connection with the designation, services, or closeout of the arrangement, that an employee, or contractor of the retained entity has committed a violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 of the United States Code, or a violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733).
