
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 33 - WAIVERS FOR STATE INNOVATION
#### ยง 33.120 Monitoring and compliance.
##### Modification from the normal post-award requirements during the public health emergency.

(2)(i) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may modify, in part, State post award requirements under this paragraph (c)(2) for an approved section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation, when the application of the post award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.

(ii) A State must meet all of the following criteria to request a modification under paragraph (c) of this section:

(A) The State must request a modification under this paragraph (c)(2), in the form and manner specified by the Secretaries.

(B) The State must have acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner to comply with the monitoring and compliance requirement under the waiver and the terms and conditions of the agreement between the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, and the State to implement a section 1332 waiver and to submit and prepare the request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2).

(C) The State must detail in its request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2) the alternative post award public notice procedures it proposes to implement at the State level, including public hearings, that are designed to provide the greatest opportunity and level of meaningful public input from impacted stakeholders that is practicable given the emergency circumstances underlying the State's request for a modification.

(D) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will evaluate a State's request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2) and issue their modification determination within approximately 15 calendar days after the request is received.

(E) The State must publish on its website any modification requests and determinations within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the determination as well as information on the approved revised timeline for the state's post award public notice procedures, as applicable.

(F) The State must explain in its request for modification under this paragraph (c)(2) how the emergent circumstances underlying its request results from a natural disaster; public health emergency; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life and could not reasonably have been foreseen and how the application of the post-award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers.

(iii) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will consider circumstances to be emergent when they could not have been reasonably foreseen. The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will assess "reasonable foreseeability" based on the specific issues that a section 1332 waiver proposes to address and other relevant factors, and will not make this assessment based solely on the number of days a State may have been aware of such issues.
