
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### ยง 1.26 Procedures for notification and access to records pertaining to individuals - Format and fees for request for access.
###### Granting of access.,See

(2)When the component determines that the request for access will be granted and the requester seeks a copy of the responsive records, the component must furnish such copy in a form comprehensible to the requester, together with a statement of the applicable duplication fees. If the requester indicates they want to exercise their right to inspect the responsive records, the component officer designated in the relevant appendix to this subpart must promptly notify the requester in writing of the determination, including when and where the requested records may be inspected. A requester seeking to inspect such records may be accompanied by another person of their choosing. The requester seeking access must sign a form indicating that Treasury is authorized to discuss the contents of the subject record in the accompanying person's presence. If, after making the inspection, the requester requests a copy of all or a portion of the requested records and pays the applicable fees for duplication, the component must provide a copy of the records in a form comprehensible to the requester. Fees to be charged are as prescribed by subpart A to this subpart (ยง 1.7). Components may charge for processing requests under the Freedom of Information Act, under the provisions of this section, or may issue their own fee schedules, which must be consistent with the OMB Guidelines. (5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
