
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### ยง 1.26 Procedures for notification and access to records pertaining to individuals - Format and fees for request for access.
###### Records exempt in whole or in part.

(6)(i) If Treasury deems it necessary to assert an exemption in response to a request for notification of the existence of or access to records, it will neither confirm nor deny the existence of the records if the records were exempted from individual access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or were compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding in either a court or before an administrative tribunal. If Treasury asserts such an exemption, it must advise the requester only that it has identified no records available pursuant to the Privacy Act.

(ii) Process requests from individuals for access to records which Treasury exempted from access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k) as follows:

(A) Requests for information classified pursuant to Executive Order 12958, 13526, or successor or prior Executive orders require the responsible Treasury component to review the information to determine whether it continues to warrant classification pursuant to an Executive order. Information which no longer warrants classification under these criteria must be declassified and made available to the individual. If the information continues to warrant classification, the component must notify the requester that the information sought is classified, that it has been reviewed and continues to warrant classification, and that Treasury exempted it from access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). Classified information maintained in records Treasury exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) must be reviewed as required by this paragraph (g)(6)(ii)(A), but the response to the individual must be in the form prescribed by paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section.

(B) Components must respond to requests for information maintained in records that Treasury exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) in the manner provided in paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section unless the requester shows that the component has used or is using the information to deny them any right, privilege, or benefit for which they are eligible or to which they would otherwise be entitled under Federal law. If the requester makes such a showing, the component must advise the requester of the existence of the records, extract any information from the records that would identify a confidential source, or provide a summary extract of the records to the requester in a manner which protects the source to the maximum degree possible.

(C) Information a component compiled in its records as part of an employee background investigation that Treasury exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) must be made available to a requester unless the record identifies a confidential source(s). Information in the record that identifies confidential source(s) must be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source(s) to the maximum degree possible and the summary or extract must be provided to the requester.
