
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 34 - RESOURCES AND ECOSYSTEMS SUSTAINABILITY, TOURIST OPPORTUNITIES, AND REVIVED ECONOMIES OF THE GULF COAST STATES
#### Subpart F - Gulf RESTORE Program - Spill Impact Component
##### § 34.503 State Expenditure Plans - Spill Impact Component.
###### Deepwater Horizon

(2) In Florida, a consortium of local political subdivisions that includes, at a minimum, one representative of each county affected by theoil spill.

(3) In Louisiana, the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana, as approved by the Board.

(4) In Mississippi, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.

(5) In Texas, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.

(b) The State Expenditure Plan must describe how it takes into consideration the Comprehensive Plan and is consistent with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. In addition, the State Expenditure Plan must describe the processes used:

(1) To evaluate and select activities included in the plan;

(2) To assess the capability of third party entities that will implement activities in the plan;

(3) To prevent conflicts of interest in the development and implementation of the plan;

(4) To obtain public review and comment in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section; and

(5) To verify compliance with the requirements of § 34.203 and this subpart.

(c) For each activity in the State Expenditure Plan, the plan must include a narrative description demonstrating:

(1) The need for, purpose, and objectives of the activity;

(2) How the activity is eligible for funding and meets all requirements of § 34.203 and this subpart;

(3) Location of the activity;

(4) Budget for the activity;

(5) Milestones for the activity;

(6) Projected completion dates for the activity; and

(7) Criteria the applicant will use to evaluate the success of each activity in helping to restore and protect the Gulf Coast Region. Plans can be phased or incremental and may be modified with the Council's approval. If funding has been requested from other sources, including other components of the Act, the plan must identify the source, state how much funding was requested, and provide the current status of the request.

(d) The State Expenditure Plan must demonstrate how the activities in the plan will contribute to the overall economic and ecological recovery of the Gulf Coast, and how each activity that would restore and protect natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, coastal wetlands or the economy of the Gulf Coast is based on the best available science.

(e) The State Expenditure Plan must demonstrate that activities described in § 34.201(a) through (g) will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region, as described in § 34.203(c).

(f) No more than 25 percent of funding under the Spill Impact Component is available to a Gulf Coast State under this subpart to pay for infrastructure, unless the Governor or the Governor's representative on the Council certifies that:

(1) The ecosystem restoration needs in the state will be addressed by the activities in the proposed plan; and
