
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 34 - RESOURCES AND ECOSYSTEMS SUSTAINABILITY, TOURIST OPPORTUNITIES, AND REVIVED ECONOMIES OF THE GULF COAST STATES
#### Subpart I - Agreements
##### ยง 34.802 Certifications.

At a minimum, grant applications and agreements for the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component must contain the following certifications. The certification must be signed by an authorized senior official of the entity receiving grant funds who can legally bind the organization or entity, and who has oversight for the administration and use of the funds in question. The certification in paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to planning assistance funds for the preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan.

(a) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement has been designed to plan for or undertake activities to restore and protect the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, coastal wetlands, or economy of the Gulf Coast Region.

(b) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement is designed to carry out one or more of the eligible activities for this component.

(c) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement was part of a plan made available for public review and comment in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations, and that the activity was selected after consideration of meaningful input from the public, as described in the grant application.

(d) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement that protects or restores natural resources is based on the best available science, as that term is defined in 31 CFR part 34.

(e) I certify that this recipient has procedures in place for procuring property and services under this award that are consistent with the procurement standards applying to Federal grants. This recipient agrees that it will not request funds under this award for any contract unless this certification remains true and accurate.

(f) I certify that a conflict of interest policy is in effect and covering each activity funded under this Agreement.

(g) I make each of these certifications based on my personal knowledge and belief after reasonable and diligent inquiry, and I affirm that this recipient maintains written documentation sufficient to support each certification made above, and that this recipient's compliance with each of these certifications is a condition of this recipient's initial and continuing receipt and use of the funds provided under this Agreement.
