
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 35 - PANDEMIC RELIEF PROGRAMS
#### Appendix A to Part 35 - Emergency Capital Investment Program Model Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy

A participant in the Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP recipient, as defined at 31 CFR 35.21) is required to establish and maintain policies designed to eliminate excessive or luxury expenditures. The term "excessive or luxury expenditures" means excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent such expenditures are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the ECIP recipient's business operations: (1) Entertainment or events; (2) office and facility renovations; (3) aviation or other transportation services; (4) tax gross-ups; and (5) other similar items, activities, or events for which the ECIP recipient may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses, or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses.

(1) To facilitate compliance with this requirement, the Department of the Treasury is making available a model excessive or luxury expenditures policy. An ECIP recipient may refer to this model policy for guidance in satisfying the requirement at 31 CFR 35.22(c) to adopt and maintain an excessive or luxury expenditures policy. Alternatively, ECIP recipients may use other forms of, or existing policies relating to, excessive or luxury expenditures, provided that such other forms or policies satisfy all the requirements of the regulation at 31 CFR 35.22(c).

(2) An ECIP recipient's luxury or excessive expenditure policy should be posted on the ECIP recipient's website. Any material amendments to an ECIP recipient's excessive or luxury expenditures policy must made in accordance with the provisions set forth in 31 CFR 35.22(d) (Material changes in policies or procedures). If the ECIP recipient makes any material amendments to this policy, then the ECIP recipient must submit a copy of the amended policy to the Department of the Treasury and post the amended policy on the ECIP recipient's website. ECIP recipients should refer to 31 CFR part 35, subpart B for additional information regarding definitions of terms used in the model policy, disclosure, material changes, certification, and other compliance requirements.

The purpose of this policy is to establish parameters and internal controls governing the expenditures of [NAME OF ECIP RECIPIENT] (together with its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates, referred to hereafter as the Organization). Expenditures of the Organization should be customary, prudent, consistent with applicable laws and regulations, and reasonably related to the Organization's business objectives and needs. This policy identifies expenditures that are excessive or luxury expenditures, creates processes that are reasonably designed to eliminate such expenditures, and establishes accountability for compliance. Routine operating expenses, capital expenditures, and other reasonable expenses are not prohibited by this policy.

The Organization has authority to provide compensation and benefits that are reasonable. This policy establishes a prohibition on expenditures that are excessive or luxury expenditures as required by the Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program regulations (31 CFR part 35), and as may be required by other statutes and regulations.

This policy is the responsibility of the Organization's board of directors (board). The board has approved this policy and will review compliance with this policy no less frequently than annually, and summary data on excessive or luxury expenditures will be reported to the board as part of the compliance review.

This policy applies to all employees, officers, and directors of the Organization with regard to any expenditure of the Organization. In making any expenditure on behalf of the Organization, employees, officers, and directors should consider whether the expenditure is an excessive or luxury expenditure that is prohibited under this policy.

"Excessive or luxury expenditures" means excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent not reasonable or appropriate expenditures for business development, staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the Organization's business operations:
