
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 50 - TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 50.4 Definitions.
###### State-licensed or admitted insurers.

(1)For a state licensed or admitted insurer that reports to the NAIC, direct earned premium is the premium information for property and casualty insurance reported by the insurer on column 2 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement (commonly known as Statutory Page 14).

(i) Premium information as reported to state regulators through the NAIC should be included in the calculation of direct earned premiums for purposes of the Program only to the extent it reflects premiums for property and casualty insurance issued by the insurer against losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.

(ii) Premiums for personal property and casualty lines of insurance (insurance primarily designed to cover personal, family or household risk exposures, with the exception of insurance written to insure 1 to 4 family rental dwellings owned for the business purpose of generating income for the property owner), or premiums for any other insurance coverage that does not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance, should be excluded in the calculation of direct earned premiums for purposes of the Program.

(iii) Personal property and casualty lines of insurance coverage that includes incidental coverage for commercial purposes are primarily personal coverage, and therefore premiums may be fully excluded by an insurer from the calculation of direct earned premium. For purposes of this section, commercial coverage is incidental if less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium is attributable to commercial coverage. Property and casualty insurance against losses occurring at locations other than the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act, or other insurance coverage that does not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance, but that includes incidental coverage for commercial risk exposures at such locations, is primarily not commercial, and therefore premiums for such insurance may also be fully excluded by an insurer from the calculation of direct earned premium. For purposes of this section, property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act is incidental if less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium for the insurance policy is attributable to coverage at such locations. Also for purposes of this section, coverage for commercial risk exposures is incidental if it is combined with coverages that otherwise do not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance and less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium for the insurance policy is attributable to the coverage for commercial risk exposures.

(iv) If an insurance policy covers both commercial and personal property and casualty exposures, insurers may allocate the premiums in accordance with the proportion of risk between commercial and personal components in order to ascertain direct earned premium. If a policy includes insurance coverage that meets the definition of property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act, but also includes other coverage, insurers may allocate the premiums in accordance with the proportion of risk attributable to the components in order to ascertain direct earned premium.
