
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 50 - TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM
#### Subpart J - Recoupment and Surcharge Procedures
##### ยง 50.94 Collecting the surcharge.
###### de minimis,

(ii) If the insurer estimates that the portion of the premium amount charged for coverage other than property and casualty insurance is notthe insurer shall impose and collect from the policyholder a Surcharge amount based on a reasonable estimate of the premium amount for the property and casualty insurance coverage under the policy.

(3) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is not considered premium.

(d) A policyholder must pay the applicable Federal terrorism policy surcharge when due. The insurer shall have such rights and remedies to enforce the collection of the surcharge that are the equivalent to those that exist under applicable state or other law for nonpayment of premium.

(e) When an insurer returns an unearned premium, or otherwise refunds premium to a policyholder, it shall also return any Federal terrorism policy surcharge collected that is attributable to the refunded unearned premium. Notwithstanding this paragraph, if the written premium for a policy is revised and refunded after the end of the reporting period described in ยง 50.95(e), then the insurer is not required to refund any Surcharge that is attributable to the refunded premium.

(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, if the expense of collecting the Federal terrorism policy surcharge from all policyholders of an insurer during an assessment period exceeds the amount of the Surcharges anticipated to be collected, such insurer may satisfy its obligation to collect by omitting actual collection and instead remitting to Treasury the amount otherwise due.

(g) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is repayment of Federal financial assistance in an amount required by law. No fee or commission shall be charged on the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
