
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 50 - TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM
#### Subpart L - Cap on Annual Liability
##### ยง 50.111 Notice to Congress.
####### Pro rata loss percentage (PRLP)

(a)is the percentage determined by the Secretary to be applied by an insurer against the amount that would otherwise be paid by the insurer under the terms and conditions of an insurance policy providing property and casualty insurance under the Program if there were no cap on annual liability under section 103(e)(2)(A) of the Act.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if Treasury estimates that aggregate insured losses may exceed the cap on annual liability for a calendar year, then Treasury will determine a PRLP. The PRLP applies to insured loss payments by insurers for insured losses incurred in the subject calendar year, as specified in ยง 50.113, from the effective date of the PRLP, as established by Treasury, until such time as Treasury provides notice that the PRLP is revised. Treasury will determine the PRLP based on the following considerations:

(1) Estimates of insured losses from insurance industry statistical organizations;

(2) Any data calls issued by Treasury (see ยง 50.114);

(3) Expected reliability and accuracy of insured loss estimates and likelihood that insured loss estimates could increase;

(4) Estimates of insured losses and expenses not included in available statistical reporting;

(5) Such other factors as the Secretary considers important.

(c) Treasury shall provide notice of the determination of the PRLP through publication in theor in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the act of terrorism under consideration.

(d) As appropriate, Treasury will determine any revision to a PRLP based on the same considerations listed in paragraph (b) of this section, and will provide notice for its application to insured loss payments.

(e) If Treasury estimates based on an initial act of terrorism or subsequent act of terrorism within a calendar year that aggregate insured losses may exceed the cap on annual liability, but an appropriate PRLP cannot yet be determined, Treasury will provide notification advising insurers of this circumstance and, after consulting with the relevant state authorities, may initiate the action described in either paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
