
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 92 - UNITED STATES MINT OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Assessment of Civil Penalties for Misuse of Words, Letters, Symbols, or Emblems of the United States Mint
###### ยง 92.16 Written response.
####### Form and contents.

(a)(1) The written response submitted by a person pursuant to ยง 92.15(d)(2) must provide the following:

(i) A reference to and specific identification of the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;

(ii) The full name of the person against whom the Initial Notice of Assessment has been made;

(iii) If the respondent is not a natural person, the name and title of the officer authorized to act on behalf of the respondent; and

(iv) If a representative of the person named in the Initial Notice of Assessment is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.

(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of ยง 92.13 set forth in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any violation not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a violation is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the allegation is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the respondent is not the person responsible for the alleged violation, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the examining and assessing officials to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.
