
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 92 - UNITED STATES MINT OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Assessment of Civil Penalties for Misuse of Words, Letters, Symbols, or Emblems of the United States Mint
###### ยง 92.16 Written response.
####### Time.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this section must be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.

(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to ยง 92.15(d)(4), the written response must be submitted not later than 20 days after the date of the United States Mint's response to the request.

(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment is issued. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next business day after that date.

(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date.

(4) The examining official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for up to ten days for good cause shown. Requests for extensions beyond ten days must be approved by the assessing official and must be based on good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause.
