
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 92 - UNITED STATES MINT OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Assessment of Civil Penalties for Misuse of Words, Letters, Symbols, or Emblems of the United States Mint
###### § 92.16 Written response.
####### Review and Recommendation.

(d)The examining official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response, any other documents filed by the respondent pursuant to this subpart, and the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter. If the respondent waives the right to submit a written response in accordance with § 92.15(d)(1), or declines to submit a written response by the end of the 30-day response period, the examining official will fully consider the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter.

(1) In fully considering the matter, the examining official will not consider any evidence introduced into the record by the United States Mint after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment unless and until the respondent has been notified that such additional evidence will be considered, and has had an opportunity to request, review and comment on such evidence.

(2) The examining official will prepare a concise report, addressed to the assessing official, which will contain the following:

(i) The entire administrative record on the matter, including all information provided in or with a written response timely filed by the respondent and any additional information provided pursuant to § 92.15(e)(2), as well as all evidence upon which the Initial Notice of Assessment was based, and any additional evidence as provided for in § 92.16(d)(1).

(ii) A finding, based on the preponderance of the evidence, as to each alleged violation specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment;

(iii) For each violation that the examining official determines to have occurred, a recommendation as to the appropriate amount of a civil penalty to be imposed which, upon additional consideration of the evidence, may be the same as, more than, or less than the amount initially proposed by the examining official pursuant to § 92.15. In making this recommendation, the examining official will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) The scope of the misuse;

(B) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;

(C) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;

(D) The circumstances of the misuse;

(E) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and

(F) The repeated nature of the misuse.

(iv) If the examining official determines that a violation has occurred, a proposed Final Notice of Assessment that incorporates his or her findings and recommendations.

(v) Any additional information or considerations that the assessing officer should consider in a decision whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under § 92.17.
