
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 100 - EXCHANGE OF PAPER CURRENCY AND COIN
##### Subpart B - Request for Examination of Mutilated Currency for Possible Redemption
###### ยง 100.7 Treasury's redemption process.

(a) Lawful holders of mutilated currency may receive a redemption at full value when:

(1) Clearly more than 50% of a note identifiable as United States currency is present along with sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature; or

(2) Fifty percent or less of a note identifiable as United States currency is present and the method of mutilation and supporting evidence demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Treasury that the missing portions have been totally destroyed.

(b) No redemption will be made when:

(1) A submission, or any portion thereof, demonstrates a pattern of intentional mutilation or an attempt to defraud the United States. In such instances, the entire submission will be destroyed or retained as evidence.

(2) A submission appears to be part of, or intended to further, any criminal scheme. In such instances, the entire submission will be destroyed or retained as evidence.

(3) A submission contains a material misrepresentation of facts.

(4) Fragments and remnants presented are not identifiable as United States currency; or

(5) Fragments and remnants presented which represent 50% or less of a note are identifiable as United States currency but the method of destruction and supporting evidence do not satisfy the Treasury that the missing portion has been totally destroyed.

(c) Lawfully held mutilated currency in a submission that also contains counterfeit currency may be destroyed or retained as evidence, at the discretion of the Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.

(d) All cases will be handled under proper procedures to safeguard the funds and interests of the submitter of lawfully held mutilated currency. In some cases, the amount redeemed will be less than the amount estimated by the submitter. In other cases, the amount redeemed may be greater. The amount redeemed will be determined by an examination made by trained mutilated currency examiners and governed by the above criteria.

(e) The Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing shall have final authority with respect to redemptions of mutilated currency submissions.

(f) All submissions for review shall include an estimate of the value of the currency and an explanation of how it came to be mutilated. The submission should also contain the bank account number and routing number for an account of a United States bank since all redemptions of $500 or more shall be made through Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).
