
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 100 - EXCHANGE OF PAPER CURRENCY AND COIN
##### Subpart B - Request for Examination of Mutilated Currency for Possible Redemption
###### ยง 100.8 Packaging and shipping of mutilated currency.

Mutilated currency examiners are best able to determine the value of the currency when it has been carefully packed and boxed as described below. As a result, failure to follow the directions in this section may result in a denial of redemption:

(a) Regardless of the condition of the currency, do not disturb the fragments more than is absolutely necessary.

(b) If the currency is brittle or inclined to fall apart, pack it carefully in cotton and box it as found, without disturbing the fragments, if possible.

(c) If the currency was in a purse, box, or other container when mutilated, it should be left therein, if possible, in order to prevent further deterioration of the fragments or from their being lost.

(d) If it is absolutely necessary to remove the fragments from the container, send the container with the currency and any other contents found, except as noted in paragraph (g) of this section.

(e) If the currency was flat when mutilated, do not roll, fold, laminate, tape, glue or in any other way alter the currency in an attempt to preserve it.

(f) If the currency was in a roll when mutilated, do not attempt to unroll or straighten.

(g) If coin or any other metal is mixed with the currency, remove carefully. Do not send coin or other metal in the same package with mutilated paper currency, as the metal will break up the currency. Coin should be exchanged in accordance with subpart C of this part.

(h) Mutilated currency shipments must be addressed as follows:

(1) USPS Delivery-Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, MCD/OFM, Room 344A, Post Office Box 37048, Washington, DC 20013.

(2) Non Postal Courier (FEDEX/UPS)-Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, MCD/OFM, Room 344-A, 14th & C Streets SW., Washington, DC 20228.
