
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 100 - EXCHANGE OF PAPER CURRENCY AND COIN
##### Subpart C - Request for Examination of Coin for Possible Redemption
###### ยง 100.11 Request for examination of bent or partial coin for possible redemption.
####### Redemption process.

(c)(1) Depending on submission amount and frequency, participants may be subject to a certification process by the United States Mint. The established annual weight threshold and details about the participant certification process will be published on the United States Mint's website. If certification is required, it must be done prior to submission.

(2) All submissions for review shall include an estimate of the value of the coins and an explanation of how the submission came to be bent or partial. The submission should also contain the bank account number and routing number for a checking or savings account at a bank or other financial institution (such as a mutual fund, brokerage firm, or credit union) in the United States.

(3) Participants may be required to provide documentation for how the participant came into custody of the bent or partial coins.

(4) The United States Mint reserves the right to test samples from any submission to authenticate the material. The size of the sample will be limited to the amount necessary for authentication. Testing may result in partial or complete destruction of the sample.

(5) The United States Mint reserves the right to conduct site visits for participants over a certain volume threshold to verify information provided to the United States Mint.

(6) No redemption will be made when:

(i) A submission, or any portion of a submission, demonstrates a pattern of intentional mutilation or an attempt to defraud the United States;

(ii) A submission appears to be part of, or intended to further, any criminal activity;

(iii) A submission contains a material misrepresentation of facts;

(iv) Material presented is not identifiable as United States coins. In such instances, the participant will be notified to retrieve the entire submission, at the participant's sole expense, within 30 days. If the submission is not retrieved in a timely manner, the entire submission will be treated as voluntarily abandoned property, pursuant to 41 CFR 102-41.80, and will be retained or disposed of by the United States Mint;

(v) A submission contains any contaminant that could render the coins unsuitable for coinage metal. In such instances, the participant will be notified to retrieve the entire submission, at the participant's sole expense, within 30 days. If the submission is not retrieved in a timely manner, the entire submission will be treated as voluntarily abandoned property, pursuant to 41 CFR 102-41.80, and will be retained or disposed of by the United States Mint; or

(vi) A submission contains more than a nominal amount of uncurrent coins. In such instances, the participant may be notified to retrieve the entire submission, at the participant's sole expense, within 30 days. If the submission is not retrieved in a timely manner, the entire submission will be treated as voluntarily abandoned property, pursuant to 41 CFR 102-41.80, and will be retained or disposed of by the United States Mint.

(7) The Director of the United States Mint, or designee, shall have final authority with respect to all aspects of redemptions of bent or partial coin submissions.
