
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 100 - EXCHANGE OF PAPER CURRENCY AND COIN
##### ยง 100.2 Scope of regulations; transactions effected through Federal Reserve banks and branches; distribution of coin and currencies.

(a) The regulations in this part govern the exchange of the coin and paper currency of the United States (including national bank notes and Federal Reserve bank notes in process of retirement and Federal Reserve notes). Under authorization in the Act approved May 29, 1920, 41 Stat. 655 (31 U.S.C. 476), the Secretary of the Treasury transferred to the Federal Reserve banks and branches the duties and functions performed by the former Assistant Treasurers of the United States in connection with the exchange of paper currency and coin of the United States. Except for the duties in this respect to be performed by the Treasurer of the United States and the Director of the Mint, as may be indicated from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury, exchanges of the paper currency and coin of the United States and the distribution and replacement thereof will, so far as practicable, be effected through the Federal Reserve banks and branches. The Federal Reserve banks and branches are authorized to distribute available supplies of coin and currency to depository institutions, as that term is defined in section 103 of the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-221). As authorized by section 107 of the Act, transportation of coin and currency and coin wrapping services will be provided according to a schedule of fees established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Inquiries by depository institutions regarding distribution and related services should be addressed to the Federal Reserve bank of the district where the institution is located.

(b) The Department of the Treasury has authorized amendments to this part by the following bureaus and offices:

(1) This section-Office of the Secretary.

(2) Subpart A-Office of the Secretary.

(3) Subpart B-Bureau of Engraving and Printing.

(4) Subpart C-United States Mint.

(5) Subpart D-Office of the Secretary.
