
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 128 - REPORTING OF INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL AND FOREIGN-CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS AND POSITIONS
##### Subpart C - Reports on Foreign Currency Positions
###### ยง 128.23 Special survey reports.
####### Action 65 (E.O.)-49.

The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines the current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to and claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves.

Action No. 320, March 17, 1949 is superseded by this determination and is hereby revoked.

II. Designation of the Treasury Department by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget pursuant to section 2(b) of E.O. 10033.

On December 1, 1965, the Treasury Department was designated, pursuant to section 2(b) of E.O. 10033 of February 8, 1949, to collect information for the International Monetary Fund under the National Advisory Council determination of September 7, 1965. The letter containing the designation reads as follows:

Dear Mr. Secretary: On September 7, 1965, the National Advisory Council after consultation with this Bureau in accordance with section 2(a) of Executive Order 10033, made the following determination (Action 65 (E.O.)-49:

"The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines that current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves."

It is hereby determined pursuant to section 2(b) of Executive Order 10033, that the Treasury Department shall collect information pertaining to capital movements between the United States and foreign countries and pertaining to the monetary reserves of the United States, except information pertaining to direct-investment transactions, U.S. Government foreign lending operations, and claims and liabilities of U.S. Government agencies (other than public debt obligations), which is collected by the Department of Commerce.

This letter supersedes the earlier determination as to the responsibilities of the Treasury Department in this area, dated April 21, 1949, as amended May 4, 1950.
