
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 132 - PROHIBITION ON FUNDING OF UNLAWFUL INTERNET GAMBLING
##### ยง 132.1 Authority, purpose, collection of information, and incorporation by reference.
###### Incorporation by reference-relevant definitions from ACH rules.,http://nacha.org,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html 20002.

(d)(1) This part incorporates by reference the relevant definitions of ACH terms as published in the "2008 ACH Rules: A Complete Guide to Rules & Regulations Governing the ACH Network" (the "ACH Rules"). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the "2008 ACH Rules" are available from the National Automated Clearing House Association, Suite 100, 13450 Sunrise Valley Drive, Herndon, Virginia 20171,, (703) 561-1100. Copies also are available for public inspection at the Department of Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Before visiting the Treasury library, you must call (202) 622-0990 for an appointment. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:

(2) Any amendment to definitions of the relevant ACH terms in the ACH Rules shall not apply to this part unless the Treasury and the Board jointly accept such amendment by publishing notice of acceptance of the amendment to this part in theAn amendment to the definition of a relevant ACH term in the ACH Rules that is accepted by the Treasury and the Board shall apply to this part on the effective date of the rulemaking specified by the Treasury and the Board in the jointnotice expressly accepting such amendment.
