
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter I - Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 148 - QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS RECORDKEEPING RELATED TO THE FDIC ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY
##### ยง 148.4 Content of records.

Subject to ยง 148.3(c), a records entity must maintain the following records:

(a) The position level data listed in Table A-1 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.

(b) The counterparty netting set data listed in Table A-2 in appendix A to this part for each netting set with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.

(c) The legal agreements information listed in Table A-3 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.

(d) The collateral detail data listed in Table A-4 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.

(e) The corporate organization master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for the records entity and each of its affiliates.

(f) The counterparty master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for each non-affiliated counterparty with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.

(g) The booking location master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for each booking location used with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.

(h) The safekeeping agent master data lookup table in the appendix to this part for each safekeeping agent used with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.

(i) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each open QFC position of the records entity that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each open QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.

(j) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and the vendors' contact information.
