
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 203 - PAYMENT OF FEDERAL TAXES AND THE TREASURY TAX AND LOAN PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Investment Program and Collateral Security Requirements for TT&L Depositaries
####### ยง 203.21 Collateral security requirements.
######## Deposits of securities.

(c)(1) Collateral security required under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (4) (except as provided in subparagraph (2) below), and (b) of this section must be deposited with the depositary's FRB, or with a custodian or custodians within the United States designated by the TSC or FRB, under terms and conditions prescribed by the TSC or FRB.

(2) A depositary pledging collateral security as required under paragraph (a)(3) or paragraph (a)(4) (when permitted) of this section must pledge the collateral under a written security agreement on a form provided by the FRB. The collateral security pledged to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) (when permitted) of this section may remain in the pledging depositary's possession provided that the pledging is evidenced by advices of custody incorporated by reference in the written security agreement. The depositary must provide the written security agreement and all advices of custody covering collateral security pledged under that agreement to the FRB. Collateral security pledged under the agreement may not be substituted for or released without the advance approval of the FRB, and any collateral security subject to the security agreement will remain so subject until an approved substitution is made. No substitution or release will be approved until an advice of custody containing the description required by the written security agreement is received by the FRB.

(3) Treasury's security interest in collateral security pledged by a depositary in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) of this section to secure SDIs and certain term investments is perfected without Treasury taking possession of the collateral security by filing or, absent filing, for a period not to exceed 20 calendar days from the day of the depositary's receipt of the special direct or term investment.
