
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1 - Internal Revenue Service
###### Purpose.

1.The purpose of this section is to set forth the procedures that have been established by the Internal Revenue Service for individuals to exercise their rights under the Privacy Act (Pub. L. 93-579, 88 Stat. 1896) with respect to systems of records maintained by the Internal Revenue Service, including the Office of the Chief Counsel. The procedures contained in this section are to be promulgated under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The procedures contained in this section relate to the following:

(a) The procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if a system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to such individual (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(1)).

(b) The procedures governing reasonable times, places, and requirements for identifying an individual who requests a record of information pertaining to such individual before the Internal Revenue Service will make the record or information available to the individual (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(2)).

(c) The procedures for the disclosure to an individual upon a request of a record of information pertaining to such individual, including special procedures for the disclosure to an individual of medical records, including psychological records (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(3)).

(d) The procedures for reviewing a request from an individual concerning the amendment of any record or information pertaining to the individual, for making a determination on the request, for an appeal within the Internal Revenue Service of an initial adverse agency determination, and for whatever additional means may be necessary for individuals to be able to exercise fully their right under the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(4)).

Any individual seeking to determine whether a system of records maintained by any office of the Internal Revenue Service contains a record or information pertaining to such individual, or seeking access to, or amendment of, such a record, must comply fully with the applicable procedure contained in section 3 or 4 of this appendix before the Internal Revenue Service will act on the request. Neither the notification and access (or accounting of disclosures) procedures under section 3 of this appendix nor the amendment procedures under section 4 of this appendix are applicable to:

(i) Systems of records exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k);

(ii) Information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)); or

(iii) Information pertaining to an individual which is contained in, and inseparable from, another individual's record.
