
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.5 What are the thresholds for major Federal assistance programs?

(a) Table A of this section defines major Federal assistance programs based on the dollar amount of an individual Federal assistance program and the dollar amount of all Federal assistance being received by a State for all Federal assistance programs including non-cash programs. A State must locate the appropriate row in Column A based upon the total amount of Federal assistance received. In that same row, a State must apply the percentage from Column B to the dollar value of all its Federal assistance programs to determine the State's threshold for major Federal assistance programs. For example, if the total amount received by a State for all Federal assistance programs is $50 million, then that State's threshold for major Federal assistance programs is 6% of $50 million or $3 million. A State which receives more than $10 billion under Federal assistance programs will have a minimum default threshold of $60 million.

(b) To ensure adequate coverage of all State programs, a State must, on an annual basis, compare its program coverage using the percentage obtained from Table A to the program coverage which would result using a percentage which is half of the percentage obtained from Table A. For example, a State receiving $1 billion in Federal Assistance would use Table A to learn that its threshold level would be .60 percent of $1 billion. A State would compare program coverage at .60 percent of $1 billion to program coverage at .30 percent of $1 billion.

(c) If the comparison conducted under paragraph (b) of this section results in a reduction of program coverage that is greater than 10%, a State must lower its threshold, or add programs, until the difference is less than or equal to 10%.

(d) In accordance with ยง 205.3(b), a State may lower its threshold to include additional programs. All of a State's programs that meet this lower threshold would be subject to this subpart A.

(e) Unless specified otherwise, major Federal assistance programs must be determined from the most recent Single Audit data available.
