
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.7 Can a Treasury-State agreement be amended?

(a) We or a State may amend a Treasury-State agreement at any time if both we and the State agree in writing.

(b) The effective date of an amendment shall be the date both parties agree to the amendment in writing unless otherwise agreed to by both parties.

(c) We and a State must amend a Treasury-State agreement as needed to change or clarify its language when the terms of the existing agreement are either no longer correct or no longer applicable. A State must notify us in writing within 30 days of the time the State becomes aware of a change, describing the Federal assistance program change. The notification must include a proposed amendment for our review and a current list of all programs included in the Treasury-State agreement. Amendments may address, but are not limited to:

(1) Additions or deletions of Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A;

(2) Changes in funding techniques; and

(3) Changes in clearance patterns.

(d) Additions or deletions to the list of Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A take effect when a Treasury-State agreement is amended, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.

(e) Federal assistance programs that are to be added to a Treasury-State agreement are not subject to this subpart A until the Treasury-State agreement is amended, except when a Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A is being replaced by a Federal assistance program governed by subpart B of this part, in which case the replacement program is immediately subject to this subpart A.

(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if no changes to the Treasury-State agreement are required, States must notify us annually.
