
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### § 205.9 What is included in a Treasury-State agreement?

We will prescribe a uniform format for all Treasury-State agreements. A Treasury-State agreement must include, but is not limited to, the following:

(a) State agencies, instrumentalities, and fiscal agents that administer the Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A.

(b) Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A, consistent with §§ 205.3 and 205.4. A State must use its most recent Single Audit report as a basis for determining the funding thresholds for major Federal assistance programs, unless otherwise specified in the Treasury-State agreement. A State may use budget or appropriations data for a more recent period instead of Single Audit data, if specified in the Treasury-State agreement.

(c) Funding techniques to be applied to Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A.

(d) Methods the State will use to develop and maintain clearance patterns and estimates, consistent with § 205.11. The method must include, at a minimum, a clear indication of:

(1) The data used;

(2) The sources of the data;

(3) The development process;

(4) For estimates, when and how the State will update the estimate to reflect the most recent data available;

(5) For estimates, when and how the State will make adjustments, if any, to reconcile the difference between the estimate and the State's actual cash needs; and

(6) Any assumptions, standards, or conventions used in converting the data into the clearance pattern or estimate.

(e) Federal Program Agency provisions requiring reconciliation of estimates to actual outlays may be included in a Treasury-State agreement. The supporting documentation must be retained by the State for three years.

(f) States must include the results of the clearance pattern process in the Treasury-State agreement for programs where the timing of drawdowns is based on clearance patterns. For programs where the timing of drawdowns is not based on clearance patterns, the results of the clearance pattern process may be provided with the annual report required under § 205.26. The supporting documentation must be retained by the State for three years.

(g) Methods used by the State and Federal agencies to calculate interest liabilities pursuant to this subpart A. The method must include, but is not limited to, a clear indication of:

(1) The data used;

(2) The sources of the data;

(3) The calculation process; and

(4) Any assumptions, standards, or conventions used in converting the data into the interest liability amounts.

(h) Treasury-State agreements must include language describing how a State and Federal Program Agency will address a State request for supplemental funding. This language must include, but is not limited to, the following provisions:

(1) What constitutes a timely request for supplemental funds for Federal assistance program purposes by a State; and

(2) What constitutes a timely transfer of supplemental funds for Federal assistance program purposes from a Federal Program Agency to a State.
