
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1 - Internal Revenue Service
###### Access to and amendment of tax records.

2.The provisions of the Privacy Act may not be used by an individual to amend or correct any tax record. The determination of liability for taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Service Code, the collection of such taxes, and the payment (including credits or refunds of overpayments) of such taxes are governed by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Service Code and by the procedural rules of the Internal Revenue Service. These provisions set forth the established procedures governing the determination of liability for tax, the collection of such taxes, and the payment (including credits or refunds of overpayments) of such taxes. In addition, these provisions set forth the procedures (including procedures for judicial review) for resolving disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service involving the amount of tax owed, or the payment or collection of such tax. These procedures are the exclusive means available to an individual to contest the amount of any liability for tax or the payment or collection thereof. See, for example, 26 CFR 601.103 for summary of general tax procedures. Individuals are advised that Internal Revenue Service procedures permit the examination of tax records during the course of an investigation, audit, or collection activity. Accordingly, individuals should contact the Internal Revenue Service employee conducting an audit or effecting the collection of tax liabilities to gain access to such records, rather than seeking access under the provisions of the Privacy Act. Where, on the other hand, an individual desires information or records not in connection with an investigation, audit, or collection activity, the individual may follow these procedures.
