
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.12 What funding techniques may be used?

(a) We and a State may negotiate the use of mutually agreed upon funding techniques. We may deny interest liability if a State does not use a mutually agreed upon funding technique. Funding techniques should be efficient and minimize the exchange of interest between States and Federal agencies.

(b) We and a State may base our agreement on the sample funding techniques listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, or any other technique upon which both parties agree.

(1) Zero balance accounting means that a Federal Program Agency transfers the actual amount of Federal funds to a State that are paid out by the State each day.

(2) Projected clearance means that a Federal Program Agency transfers to a State the projected amount of funds that the State pays out each day. The projected amount paid out each day is determined by applying a clearance pattern to the total amount the State will disburse.

(3) Average clearance means that a Federal Program Agency, on the dollar-weighted average day of clearance of a disbursement, transfers to a State a lump sum equal to the actual amount of funds that the State is paying out. The dollar-weighted average day of clearance is the day when, on a cumulative basis, 50 percent of the funds have been paid out. The dollar-weighted average day of clearance is calculated from a clearance pattern, consistent with ยง 205.20.

(4) Cash advance (pre-issuance or post-issuance) funding means that a Federal Program Agency transfers the actual amount of Federal funds to a State that will be paid out by the State, in a lump sum, not more than three business days prior to the day the State issues checks or initiates EFT payments.

(5) Reimbursable funding means that a Federal Program Agency transfers Federal funds to a State after that State has already paid out the funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
