
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.14 When does Federal interest liability accrue?

(a) Federal interest liabilities may accrue in accordance with the following provisions:

(1) The Federal Program Agency incurs interest liability if a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes with valid obligational authority under Federal law, Federal regulation, or Federal-State agreement. A Federal interest liability will accrue from the day a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day Federal funds are credited to a State bank account.

(2) If a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes without obligational authority, the Federal Program Agency will incur an interest liability if obligational authority subsequently is established. However, if the lack of obligational authority is the result of the failure of the State to comply with a Federal Program Agency requirement established by statute, regulation, or agreement, interest liability may be denied. A Federal interest liability will accrue from the day a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day Federal funds are credited to a State bank account.

(3) If a State pays out its own funds prior to the day a Federal Program Agency officially notifies the State in writing that a discretionary grant project is approved, the Federal Program Agency does not incur an interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.

(4) If a State pays out its own funds prior to the availability of Federal funds authorized or appropriated for a future Federal fiscal year, the Federal Program Agency does not incur an interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.

(5) If a State fails to request funds timely as set forth in ยง 205.29, or otherwise fails to apply a funding technique properly, we may deny any resulting Federal interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.

(b) Federal Program Agency programs that have specific payment dates set by the Federal Program Agency that create interest liabilities are subject to this part.

(c) States must adhere to Federal Program Agency disbursement schedules when requesting funds. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, we may deny a State's claim for Federal interest liability for the period prior to a late drawdown request. States must time their funds drawdown so that it does not create Federal interest liability. The drawdown request must allow the Federal Program Agency sufficient time to meet its disbursement schedule. If the Federal Program Agency does not make a timely payout in accordance with the terms of the Treasury-State agreement, a State may submit a claim for interest liability.
