
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.19 How is interest calculated?

(a) A State must calculate Federal interest liabilities and State interest liabilities for each Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A.

(b) The interest rate for all interest liabilities for each Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A is the annualized rate equal to the average equivalent yields of 13-week Treasury Bills auctioned during a State's fiscal year. We provide this rate to each State.

(c) A State must calculate and report interest liabilities on the basis of its fiscal year. A State must ensure that its interest calculations are auditable and retain a record of the calculations.

(d) As set forth in ยง 205.9, a Treasury-State agreement must include the method a State uses to calculate and document interest liabilities.

(e) A State may use actual data, a clearance pattern, or statistical sampling to calculate interest. A clearance pattern used to calculate interest must meet the standards of ยง 205.20. If a State uses statistical sampling to calculate interest, the State must sample transactions separately for each Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A. Each sample must be representative of the pool of transactions and be of sufficient size to accurately represent the flow of Federal funds under the Federal assistance program, including seasonal or other periodic variations.

(f) For the first year in which a Federal assistance program is covered in a Treasury-State agreement, funds transfers that occur prior to the first day of the State's fiscal year must not be included in interest calculations and are not subject to the interest liability provisions of this part.
