
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.25 How does this part apply to certain Federal assistance programs or funds?
######## Supplemental Security Income.

(c)(1) Except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 1382e(d), the Federal government incurs an interest liability from the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account to the day a Federal Program Agency pays out the State funds for Federal assistance program purposes. A State incurs an interest liability from the day a Federal Program Agency pays out Federal funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account.

(2) Interest liability must be calculated on the difference between a State's monthly Supplemental Security Income payment and the State's actual liability for the month.

(3) The Federal government will not incur interest liabilities on refunds of State funds under the Supplemental Security Income Program.

(4) Administrative fees charged by the Social Security Administration to States under the Supplemental Security Income program are not subject to this part.

(5) Supplemental State payments made in conjunction with Supplemental Security Income are not subject to this part.
