
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1 - Internal Revenue Service
###### Form of request for notification and access or request for an accounting of disclosures.

(b)(i) A request for notification and access (or request for an accounting of disclosures) shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the person making the request.

(ii) Such request shall be clearly marked, "Request for notification and access," or "Request for accounting of disclosures."

(iii) Such a request shall contain a statement that it is being made under the provisions of the Privacy Act.

(iv) Such request shall contain the name and address of the individual making the request. In addition, if a particular system employs an individual's social security number as an essential means of accessing the system, the request must include the individual's Social Security number. In the case of a record maintained in the name of two or more individuals (e.g., husband and wife), the request shall contain the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers (if necessary) of both individuals.

(v) Such request shall specify the name and location of the particular system of records (as set forth in the Notice of Systems) for which the individual is seeking notification and access (or an accounting of disclosures), and the title and business address of the official designated in the access section for the particular system (as set forth in the Notice of Systems). In the case of two or more systems of records which are under the control of the same designated official at the same systems location, a single request may be made for such systems. In the case of two or more systems of records which are not in the control of the same designated official at the same systems location, a separate request must be made for each such system.

(vi) If an individual wishes to limit a request for notification and access to a particular record or records, the request should identify the particular record. In the absence of a statement to the contrary, a request for notification and access for a particular system of records shall be considered to be limited to records which are currently maintained by the designated official at the systems location specified in the request.

(vii) If such request is seeking notification and access to material maintained in a system of records which is exempt from disclosure and access under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the individual making the request must establish that such individual has been denied a right, privilege, or benefit that such individual would otherwise be entitled to under Federal law as a result of the maintenance of such material.

(viii) Such request shall state whether the individual wishes to inspect the record in person, or desires to have a copy made and furnished without first inspecting it. If the individual desires to have a copy made, the request must include an agreement to pay the fee for duplication ultimately determined to be due. If the individual does not wish to inspect a record, but merely wishes to be notified whether a particular system or records contains a record pertaining to such individual, the request should so state.
