
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.26 What are the requirements for preparing Annual Reports?

(a) A State must submit to us an Annual Report accounting for State and Federal interest liabilities of the State's most recently completed fiscal year. Adjustments to the Annual Report must be limited to the two State fiscal years prior to the State fiscal year covered by the report. The authorized State official must certify the accuracy of a State's Annual Report. A signed original of the Annual Report must be received by December 31 of the year in which the State's fiscal year ends. We will provide copies of Annual Reports to Federal agencies. We will prescribe the format of the Annual Report, and may prescribe that the Annual Report be submitted by electronic means.

(b) A State must submit a description and supporting documentation for liability claims greater than $5,000. This information must include the following:

(1) The amount of funds requested;

(2) The date the funds were requested;

(3) The date the funds were paid out for Federal assistance program purposes;

(4) The date the funds were received by the State; and

(5) The date of award.

(c) A State claiming reimbursement of Interest Calculation Costs must submit its claim with its Annual Report in accordance with ยง 205.27. An authorized State official must certify the accuracy of a State's claim for Interest Calculation Costs.
