
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 205 - RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS
###### Subpart A - Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement
####### ยง 205.31 How does a State or Federal Program Agency appeal a determination made by us and resolve disputes?

(a) This section documents the procedures for:

(1) A State to appeal the net interest charge that we have assessed;

(2) A State to appeal a determination we have made regarding the State's claim for Interest Calculation Costs in accordance with ยง 205.27;

(3) A Federal Program Agency to appeal a charge for noncompliance that we have assessed in accordance with ยง 205.30; or

(4) A State or a Federal Program Agency to resolve other disputes with us or between or among each other concerning the implementation of this subpart A.

(b) A State or Federal Program Agency must submit a written petition (Petition) to the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, (Assistant Commissioner), within 90 days of the date of the notice of assessment or the event that initiated the appeal or dispute. The Petition must include a concise factual statement, not to exceed 15 pages, with supporting documentation in the appendices, of the conditions forming the basis of the Petition and the action requested of the Assistant Commissioner. In the case of a dispute, the party submitting the petition to us must concurrently provide a copy of the petition to the other concerned parties. The other concerned parties may submit to the Assistant Commissioner a rebuttal within 90 days of the date of the petition. The rebuttal must include a concise factual statement, not to exceed 15 pages, with supporting documentation in the appendices.

(c) The Assistant Commissioner will review the Petition, any rebuttal, and all supporting documentation. As part of the review process, the Assistant Commissioner may request to meet with any or all parties and may request additional information.

(d) The Assistant Commissioner will issue a written decision within the later of 120 days of the date of the Petition or the rebuttal, in case of a dispute, or 120 days from receipt of any additional information. The Assistant Commissioner's decision will be the final program agency action on our part for purposes of judicial review procedures under the Administrative Procedures Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706 (APA), unless either the State or Federal Program Agency invokes the provisions of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1990 (ADRA), 5 U.S.C. 581-593.

(e) Either a State or Federal Program Agency may seek to invoke the provisions of the ADRA within 45 days after the date of the Assistant Commissioner's written decision.

(1) The party invoking the ADRA must notify the Assistant Commissioner and any other concerned parties in writing. If all parties, including the Assistant Commissioner, agree in writing, a neutral party appointed under the provisions of the ADRA may assist in resolving the dispute through the use of alternate means of dispute resolution as defined in the ADRA.

(2) If the party invoking the ADRA is unable to reach a satisfactory resolution, the Assistant Commissioner's decision will be the final agency action on our part for purposes of the judicial review procedures under the APA.
