
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 206 - MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL AGENCY RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND OPERATION OF THE CASH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS FUND
###### ยง 206.1 Scope and application.

(a) This subpart applies to all Government departments and agencies in the executive branch (except the Tennessee Valley Authority) and all monies collected and disbursed by these departments and agencies. This subpart does not apply to interagency transfers of funds, except that agencies are to use the Treasury's On-Line Payment and Collection (OPAC) system for interagency payments between executive agencies, when cost-effective.

(b) Policies and guidelines are prescribed for promoting efficient, effective cash management through improved billing, collection, deposit, and payment of funds. These objectives seek to improve funds availability and the efficiency and effectiveness with which funds are transferred.

(c) Authority to implement this regulation has been delegated within the Department of the Treasury (hereinafter, "Treasury") to the Commissioner (hereinafter, "the Commissioner") of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service (hereinafter, "the Service)." The Service maintains the final authority as granted under the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 to specify use of a particular method or mechanism of collection and deposit and to recover costs that result from noncompliance. Authority is also granted to the Service, under the Cash Management Improvement Act of 1990, as amended by the Cash Management Improvement Act Amendments of 1992, to provide for the timely disbursement of funds. An agency will require the collection or disbursement of funds by the agency via EFT as a provision of new contractual agreements or renewal of existing contracts that impact agency collection or payment mechanisms.
