
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 206 - MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL AGENCY RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND OPERATION OF THE CASH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS FUND
###### ยง 206.8 Appeals.
####### i.e.

(a) An agency that chooses to file an appeal must submit the appeal in writing to the Commissioner within 45 days of the date of the Notice of Deficiency. In the event of an appeal, the charge imposed under Notice of Deficiency will be deferred pending the results of the appeal. If an appeal is not submitted (, received by the Commissioner) within 45 days, the amount indicated in the Notice of Deficiency will be charged per ยง 206.9(a).

(b) The appeal will contain the elements and follow the submission procedures specified in I TFM 6-8000. The appeal will include the background leading to the Notice of Deficiency, the basis of the appeal, and the action requested by an agency. An agency should state its disagreements with the Notice of Deficiency which may include cost-benefit factors, the amount of the charge, and other items.

(c) An agency must state what action it requests in its appeal. An agency may request that the Notice of Deficiency be completely overturned for cost-benefit or other considerations. Alternatively, an agency may request a reduced charge, deferral of the charge, an alternative solution to cash management improvement, or a combination of these actions.
