
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 206 - MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL AGENCY RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND OPERATION OF THE CASH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS FUND
###### ยง 206.8 Appeals.
####### Appeal finding.

(f)A written majority decision will be rendered by the Appeals Board within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. The Board may extend this period for an additional period, not to exceed 30 days, if required. The Appeals Board will notify the Commissioner and the agency of the decision. The decision of the Board whether to uphold the Notice of Deficiency, to overturn the Notice of Deficiency, or to mandate some other action will be stated in the finding. Other action mandated may include a reduced charge, a deferral of the charge, an alternate solution to cash management improvement, or a combination of these actions. The basis of the decision, the amount of the charge, and the effective date of the charge will be stated in the finding. The effective date of the charge may be retroactive to the date indicated in the Notice of Deficiency.

(g) Any terms related to charge deferral shall be stated; the Service and an agency will be required to submit evidence of compliance to such terms at a future specified date. At this future time, the Appeals Board will review the evidence of compliance. Based on this evidence, the Board will decide whether to impose a charge.
