
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1 - Internal Revenue Service
###### Processing a request for amendment of a record.

(e)(i) Within 10 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request to amend a record by the designated official, the individual will be sent a written acknowledgement that will state that the request has been received, that action is being taken thereon, and that the individual will be notified within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of the request whether the requested amendments will or will not be made. If a request for amendment of a record omits any information which is essential to processing the request, the request will not be acted upon and the individual making the request will be promptly advised on the additional information which must be submitted before the request can be processed.

(ii) Within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request to amend a record by the designated official, a determination will be made as to whether to grant the request in whole or part. The individual will then be notified in writing of the determination. If a determination cannot be made within 30 days, the individual will be notified in writing within such time of the reasons for the delay and the approximate time required to make a determination. If it is determined by the designated official that the request will be granted, the requested changes will be made in the record and the individual will be notified of the changes. In addition, to the extent an accounting was maintained, all prior recipients of such record will be notified of the changes. Upon request, an individual will be furnished with a copy of the record, as amended, subject to the payment of the appropriate fees. On the other hand, if it is determined by the designated official that the request, or any portion thereof, will not be granted, the individual will be notified in writing of the adverse determination. The notification of an adverse determination will set forth the reasons for refusal to amend the record. In addition, the notification will contain a statement informing the individual of such individual's right to request an independent review of the adverse determination by a reviewing officer in the national office of the IRS and the procedures for requesting such a review.
