
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 208 - MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL AGENCY DISBURSEMENTS
###### § 208.11 Accounts for disaster victims.
####### et seq.,et seq.

Treasury may establish and administer accounts at any financial institution designated as a Financial Agent for disaster victims in order to allow for the delivery by electronic funds transfer of one or more Federal payments. Such accounts may be established upon terms and conditions that the Secretary considers appropriate or necessary in light of the circumstances. Treasury may deliver payments to these accounts notwithstanding any other payment instructions from the recipient and without regard to the requirements of §§ 208.4 and 208.7 and § 210.5 of this chapter. For purposes of this section, "disaster victim" means an individual or entity located within an emergency area, or an individual or entity that has relocated or been displaced from an emergency area as a result of a major disaster or emergency. "Emergency area" means a geographical area in which there exists an emergency or disaster declared by the President pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601) or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121). The maintenance of accounts and the provision of account-related services under this section shall constitute reasonable duties of a Financial Agent of the United States.
