
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1 - Internal Revenue Service
###### Form of request for review.

(g)(i) A request for review of an adverse determination shall be in writing and shall be signed by the individual making the request.

(ii) Such request shall be clearly marked "Request for review of adverse determination".

(iii) Such request shall contain a statement that it is being made under the provisions of the Privacy Act.

(iv) Such request shall contain the name and address of the individual making the request. In addition, if a particular system employs an individual's Social Security number as an essential means of accessing the system, the request must include the individual's Social Security number. In the case of a record maintained in the name of two or more individuals (e.g., husband and wife), the request shall contain the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers (if necessary) of both individuals.

(v) Such request shall specify the particular record which the individual is seeking to amend, the name and location of the system of records (as set forth in the Notice of Systems) in which such record is maintained, and the title and business address of the designated official for such system (as set forth in the Notice of Systems).

(vi) Such request shall include the date of the initial request for amendment of the record, and the date of the letter notifying the individual of the initial adverse determination with respect to such request.

(vii) Such request shall clearly state the specific changes which the individual wishes to make in the record and a concise explanation of the reasons for the changes. If the individual wishes to correct or add any information, the request shall contain specific language making the desired correction or addition.
