
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1 - Internal Revenue Service
###### Processing a request for review of adverse determination.

(i)Within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request for review of an adverse determination by the appropriate reviewing officer, the reviewing officer will review the initial adverse determination, make a final determination whether to grant the request to amend the record in whole or in part, and notify the individual in writing of the final determination. If a final determination cannot be made within 30 days, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may extend such 30-day period. The individual will be notified in writing within the 30-day period of the cause for the delay and the approximate time required to make a final determination. If it is determined by the reviewing officer that the request to amend the record will be granted, the reviewing officer will cause the requested changes to be made and the individual will be so notified. Upon request, an individual will be furnished with a copy of the record as amended subject to the payment of appropriate fees. On the other hand, if it is determined by the reviewing officer that the request to amend the record, or any portion thereof, will not be granted, the individual will be notified in writing of the final adverse determination. The notification of a final adverse determination will set forth the reasons for the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. The notification shall include a statement informing the individual of the right to submit a concise statement for insertion in the record setting forth the reasons for the disagreement with the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. In addition, the notification will contain a statement informing the individual of the right to seek judicial review by a United States district court of a final adverse determination.
