
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 215 - WITHHOLDING OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, STATE, CITY AND COUNTY INCOME OR EMPLOYMENT TAXES BY FEDERAL AGENCIES
###### Subpart B - Procedures
####### ยง 215.3 Procedures for entering into a Withholding Agreement.

(a) Subpart C of this part is the Withholding Agreement which the Secretary will enter into with a State, city or county. A State, city or county which does not have an existing withholding agreement with the Secretary and wishes to enter into such an agreement shall indicate in a letter its consent to be bound by the provisions of subpart C. The letter shall be sent to the Secretary by addressing the request to: Assistant Commissioner, Payment Management, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20227. The letter shall be signed by an officer authorized to bind contractually the State, city or county. Copies of all applicable State laws, city or county ordinances and implementing regulations, instructions, and forms shall be enclosed. The letter shall also indicate the title and address of the official whom Federal agencies may contact to obtain forms and other information necessary to implement withholding.

(b) Within 120 days of the receipt of the letter from the State, city or county official, the Secretary will, by letter, notify the State, city or county:

(1) That a Withholding Agreement has been entered into as of the date of the Secretary's letter, or

(2) That a Withholding Agreement cannot be entered into with the State, city or county and the reason for that determination.

(c) The withholding of the State, city or county income or employment tax shall commence within 90 days after the effective date of the agreement.
