
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 215 - WITHHOLDING OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, STATE, CITY AND COUNTY INCOME OR EMPLOYMENT TAXES BY FEDERAL AGENCIES
###### Subpart C - Withholding Agreement
####### ยง 215.10 Agency withholding procedures.

(a) State income tax shall be withheld only on the entire compensation of Federal employees and members of the Armed Forces. Nonresident employees, who under the State income tax law are required to allocate at least three-fourths of their compensation to the State, shall be subject to withholding on their entire compensation. Nonresident employees, who under the State income tax law are required to allocate less than three-fourths of their compensation to the State, may elect to:

(1) Have State income tax withheld on their entire compensation, or

(2) Have no income tax withheld on their compensation.

(b) In calculating the amount to be withheld from an employee's or a member's compensation, each agency shall use the method prescribed by the State income tax statute or city or county ordinance or a method which produces approximately the tax required to be withheld:

(1) By the State income tax statute from the compensation of each employee or member of the Armed Forces subject to such income tax, or

(2) By the city or county ordinance from the compensation of each employee subject to such income or employment tax.

(c) Where it is the practice of a Federal agency under Federal tax withholding procedure to make returns and payment of the tax on an estimated basis, subject to later adjustment based on audited figures, this practice may be applied with respect to the State, city of county income or employment tax where the agency has made appropriate arrangements with the State, city or county income tax authorities.

(d) Copies of Federal Form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statement", may be used for reporting withheld taxes to the State, city or county.

(e) Withholding shall not be required on wages earned but unpaid at the date of an employee's or member's death.

(f) Withholding of District of Columbia income tax shall not apply to pay of employees who are not residents of the District of Columbia as defined in 47 District of Columbia Code, chapter 15, subchapter II.
