
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 223 - SURETY COMPANIES DOING BUSINESS WITH THE UNITED STATES
###### ยง 223.11 Limitation of risk: Protective methods.
####### Reinsurance.,www.gsa.gov.

(b)(1) In respect to bonds running to the United States, liability in excess of the underwriting limitation shall be reinsured within 45 days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond with one or more companies holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury. Such reinsurance shall not be in excess of the underwriting limitation of the reinsuring company. Where reinsurance is contemplated, Federal agencies may accept a bond from the direct writing company in satisfaction of the total bond requirement even though it may exceed the direct writing company's underwriting limitation. Within the 45 day period, the direct writing company shall furnish to the Federal agency any necessary reinsurance agreements. However, a Federal agency may, at its discretion, require that reinsurance be obtained within a lesser period than 45 days, and may require completely executed reinsurance agreements to be provided before making a final determination that any bond is acceptable. Reinsurance may protect bonds required to be furnished to the United States by the Miller Act (40 U.S.C. 3131, as amended) covering contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work of the United States, as well as other types of Federal bonds. Use of reinsurance or coinsurance to protect such bonds is at the discretion of the direct writing company. Reinsurance shall be executed on reinsurance agreement forms: Standard Form 273 (Reinsurance Agreement for a Miller Act Performance Bond), Standard Form 274 (Reinsurance Agreement for a Miller Act Payment Bond), and Standard Form 275 (Reinsurance Agreement in Favor of the United States for other types of Federal bonds). These Standard Forms are available on the General Services Administration Web site at

(2) In respect to risks covered by bonds or policies not running to the United States, liability in excess of the underwriting limitation shall be reinsured within 45 days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond or policy with:

(i) One or more companies holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds or one or more companies holding a certificate of authority as an acceptable reinsuring company on such bonds, or

(ii) One or more companies recognized as an admitted reinsurer in accord with ยง 223.12, or

(iii) A pool, association, etc., to the extent that it is composed of such companies, or

(iv) An instrumentality or agency of the United States which is permitted by Federal law or regulation to execute reinsurance contracts.

(3) No certificate-holding company may cede to a reinsuring company recognized under ยง 223.12 any risk in excess of 10 percent of the latter company's paid-up capital and surplus.
