
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 223 - SURETY COMPANIES DOING BUSINESS WITH THE UNITED STATES
###### ยง 223.20 Revocation proceedings initiated by Treasury upon receipt of an agency complaint.
####### Informal hearing.

(h)(1) If a company that is the subject of a complaint under paragraph (a) and (b) of this section believes the opportunity to make known its views, as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section, is inadequate, it may, within 20 business days of the date of the notice required by paragraph (c), request, in writing, that an informal hearing be convened.

(2) As soon as possible after a written request for an informal hearing is received, the Reviewing Official shall convene an informal hearing, at such time and place as he or she deems appropriate, for the purpose of determining whether the company's certificate of authority should be revoked.

(3) The company shall be advised, in writing, of the time and place of the informal hearing and shall be directed to bring all documents, records and other information as it may find necessary and relevant to support its position.

(4) The company may be represented by counsel and shall have a fair opportunity to present any relevant material and to examine the administrative record.

(5) The complaining agency may be requested by the Reviewing Official to send a representative to the hearing to present any relevant material, and the agency representative may examine the administrative record.

(6) The Reviewing Official is authorized to require the submission of additional documentation from the complaining agency and the company to ensure appropriate consideration of relevant factual or legal issues.

(7) Formal rules of evidence will not apply at the informal hearing.

(8) The formal adjudication standards under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 554, 556, 557 do not apply to the informal hearing or adjudication process.

(9) Treasury may promulgate additional procedural guidance governing the conduct of informal hearings. This additional procedural guidance may be contained in the Annual Letter to Executive Heads of Surety Companies referenced in ยง 223.9, the Treasury Financial Manual, or other Treasury publication or correspondence.

(10) Upon completion of the informal hearing, the Reviewing Official shall prepare a written Recommendation Memorandum addressed to the Deciding Official setting forth findings and a recommended disposition. The Deciding Official will make the final decision whether the company's certificate of authority to write and reinsure Federal bonds should be revoked based on the administrative record. The administrative record consists of the Federal agency complaint referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the company response referenced in paragraph (c), any other documentation submitted to, considered by, or entered into the administrative record by the Reviewing Official, the hearing transcript, and the Reviewing Official's Recommendation Memorandum.

(11) The provisions of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section shall apply to the adjudication of the agency complaint when an informal hearing is conducted.
