
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1.2 Requirements for making requests.
###### Description of records sought.

(b)Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Department personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist a component in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Requesters should refer to the Appendices of this subpart for additional component-specific requirements. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records that they are seeking. If the requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, the component shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is deficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the component's designated FOIA contact or the FOIA Public Liaison. When a requester fails to provide sufficient detail after having been asked to clarify a request, the component shall notify the requester that the request has not been properly made and that the request will be administratively closed.
