
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 240 - INDORSEMENT AND PAYMENT OF CHECKS DRAWN ON THE UNITED STATES TREASURY
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 240.9 Reclamation procedures; reclamation protests.
######## Reclamation procedures.

(a)(1) Treasury will send a "NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION)" to the reclamation debtor in accordance with ยง 240.8(a). This notice will advise the reclamation debtor of the amount demanded and the reason for the demand. Treasury will provide notice to the reclamation debtor that:

(i) If the reclamation debt is not paid within 30 days after the reclamation date, Treasury intends to collect the amount outstanding by instructing the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit on the 31st day the Master Account used by the reclamation debtor. The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the reclamation debtor;

(ii) The reclamation debtor has an opportunity to inspect and copy Treasury's records with respect to the reclamation debt;

(iii) The reclamation debtor may, by filing a protest in accordance with ยง 240.9(b), request Treasury to review its decision that the reclamation debtor is liable for the reclamation debt. If such a protest is filed within 30 days after the reclamation date, Treasury will not instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the Master Account used by the reclamation debtor while the protest is still pending; and

(iv) The reclamation debtor has an opportunity to enter into a written agreement with Treasury for the repayment of the reclamation debt. A request for a repayment agreement must be accompanied by documentary proof that satisfies Treasury that the reclamation debtor is unable to repay the entire amount owed when due.
