
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 240 - INDORSEMENT AND PAYMENT OF CHECKS DRAWN ON THE UNITED STATES TREASURY
###### General Provisions
####### § 240.9 Reclamation procedures; reclamation protests.
######## Review of a reclamation protest.

(4)The responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will make every effort to decide any protest properly submitted under this section within 60 days, and will notify the reclamation debtor of Treasury's decision. In those cases where it is not possible to render a decision within 60 days, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will notify the reclamation debtor of the delay. Neither the responsible Fiscal Service Director, nor an authorized designee, will have any involvement in the process of making determinations under § 240.8(a) of this part or sending a "REQUEST FOR REFUND (CHECK RECLAMATION)" under § 240.9(a) of this part.

(i) Treasury will refrain from the collection activities identified in §§ 240.10 and 240.11 while a timely protest is being considered. However, interest, penalties, and administrative costs will continue to accrue and will be added to the reclamation debt until a final determination on the protest has been made.

(ii) If, based on the evidence provided, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds that the reclamation debtor has met, by a preponderance of the evidence, the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, Treasury will notify the reclamation debtor, in writing, of his or her decision to terminate collection and will refund any amounts previously collected for the reclamation debt. Treasury may refund the amount either by applying the amount to another reclamation debt owed by the reclamation debtor in accordance with this part or other applicable law, or by returning the amount to the reclamation debtor.

(iii) If the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, the reclamation debtor is liable for the reclamation debt, Treasury will notify the reclamation debtor of his or her decision in writing. If the reclamation debtor has not paid the reclamation in full, Treasury will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Master Account immediately, provided at least 30 days have passed after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION). If at least 30 days have not yet passed after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION), Treasury will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Master Account on the 31st day after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION). The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the reclamation debtor. If the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank is unable to debit a reclamation debtor's Master Account, Treasury will proceed to collect the reclamation debt through offset in accordance with § 240.10 and § 240.11.
