
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 240 - INDORSEMENT AND PAYMENT OF CHECKS DRAWN ON THE UNITED STATES TREASURY
###### Indorsement of Checks
####### § 240.13 Indorsement by payees.
######## Acceptable indorsements.

(b)(1) A check is properly indorsed when:

(i) The check is indorsed by the payee in a form recognized by general principles of law and commercial usage for negotiation, transfer or collection of negotiable instruments.

(ii) The check is indorsed by another on behalf of the named payee, and sufficiently indicates that the indorser has indorsed the check on behalf of the payee pursuant to authority expressly conferred by or under law or other regulation. An example would be: "John Jones by Mary Jones." This example states the minimum indication acceptable. However, §§ 240.14, 240.15, and 240.17(f) specify the addition of an indication in specified situations of the actual capacity in which the person other than the named payee is indorsing.

(iii) Absent a signature, the check is indorsed "for collection" or "for deposit only to the credit of the within named payee or payees." The presenting bank shall be deemed to guarantee good title to checks without signatures to all subsequent indorsers and to Treasury.

(iv) The check is indorsed by a financial institution under the payee's authorization.
