
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CLAIMS REGULATIONS AND INDEMNIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY EMPLOYEES
#### Subpart A - Claims Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
##### ยง 3.7 Action on approved claims.

(a) Any award, compromise, or settlement in an amount of $2,500 or less shall be processed for payment from the appropriations of the bureau or office out of whose activity the claim arose.

(b) Payment of an award, compromise, or settlement in excess of $2,500 and not more than $100,000 shall be obtained by the bureau or office by forwarding Standard Form 1145 to the Claims Division, General Accounting Office.

(c) Payment of an award, compromise, or settlement in excess of $100,000 shall be obtained by the bureau by forwarding Standard Form 1145 to the Bureau of Government Financial Operations, Department of the Treasury, which will be responsible for transmitting the award, compromise, or settlement to the Bureau of the Budget for inclusion in a deficiency appropriation bill.

(d) When an award is in excess of $25,000, Standard Form 1145 must be accompanied by evidence that the award, compromise, or settlement has been approved by the Attorney General or his designee.

(e) When the use of Standard Form 1145 is required, it shall be executed by the claimant. When a claimant is represented by an attorney, the voucher for payment shall designate both the claimant and his attorney as payees; the check shall be delivered to the attorney, whose address shall appear on the voucher.

(f) Acceptance by the claimant, his agent, or legal representative, of any award, compromise or settlement made pursuant to the provisions of section 2672 or 2677 of title 28, United States Code, shall be final and conclusive on the claimant, his agent or legal representative and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim has been presented, and shall constitute a complete release of any claim against the United States and against any employee of the Government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim, by reason of the same subject matter.
