
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 285 - DEBT COLLECTION AUTHORITIES UNDER THE DEBT COLLECTION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1996
###### Subpart A - Disbursing Official Offset
####### ยง 285.8 Offset of tax refund payments to collect certain debts owed to States.
######## General rule.

(b)(1) Fiscal Service will offset tax refunds to collect debt under this section in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) and (f) and this section.

(2) Fiscal Service will compare tax refund payment records, as certified by the IRS, with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number (as that term is used in 26 U.S.C. 6109) and name on a payment certification record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name (or derivative of the name) on a delinquent debt record. When a match occurs and all other requirements for tax refund offset have been met, Fiscal Service will reduce the amount of any tax refund payment payable to a debtor by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt owed by the debtor. Any amounts not offset will be paid to the payee(s) listed in the payment certification record.

(3) Fiscal Service will only offset a tax refund payment for a State income tax obligation if the address shown on the Federal tax return for the taxable year of the overpayment is an address within the State seeking the offset.
