
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CLAIMS REGULATIONS AND INDEMNIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY EMPLOYEES
#### Subpart C - Indemnification of Department of Treasury Employees
##### ยง 3.30 Policy.

(a) The Department of the Treasury may indemnify, in whole or in part, a Department employee (which for purposes of this regulation shall include a former employee) for any verdict, judgment or other monetary award rendered against such employee, provided the Secretary or his or her designee determines that (1) the conduct giving rise to such verdict, judgment or award was within the scope of his or her employment and (2) such indemnification is in the interest of the Department of the Treasury.

(b) The Department of the Treasury may pay for the settlement or compromise of a claim against a Department employee at any time, provided the Secretary or his or her designee determines that (1) the alleged conduct giving rise to the claim was within the scope of the employee's employment and (2) such settlement or compromise is in the interest of the Department of the Treasury.

(c) Absent exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Secretary or his or her designee, the Department will not entertain a request to indemnify or to pay for settlement of a claim before entry of an adverse judgment, verdict or other determination.

(d) When a Department employee becomes aware that he or she has been named as a party in a proceeding in his or her individual capacity as a result of conduct within the scope of his or her employment, the employee should immediately notify his or her supervisor that such an action is pending. The supervisor shall promptly thereafter notify the chief legal officer of the employee's employing component. The employee shall immediately apprise the chief legal officer of his or her employing component of any offer to settle the proceeding.

(e) A Department employee may request indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment or monetary award entered against the employee or to compromise a claim pending against the employee. The employee shall submit a written request, with appropriate documentation including a copy of the verdict, judgment, award or other order or settlement proposal, in a timely manner to the Secretary or his or her designee for decision.

(f) Any payment under this section either to indemnify a Department employee or to settle a claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds for the payment of salaries and expenses of the employing component.
