
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 306 - GENERAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING U.S. SECURITIES
###### Subpart E - Interest
####### Appendix to Subpart E of Part 306 - Interest - Computation of Interest on Treasury Bonds, Treasury Notes, and Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness, and Computation of Discount on Treasury Bills - Interest Tables

Computation of interest on Treasury bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness will be made on an annual basis in all cases where interest is payable in one amount for the full term of the security, unless such term is an exact half-year (6 months), and it is provided that interest shall be computed on a semi-annual basis.

If the term of the securities is exactly 1 year, the interest is computed for the full period at the specified rate regardless of the number of days in such period.

If the term of the securities is less than 1 full year, the annual interest period for purposes of computation is considered to be the full year from but not including the date of issue to and including the anniversary of such date.

If the term of the securities is more than 1 full year, computation is made on the basis of one full annual interest period, ending with the maturity date, and a fractional part of the preceding full annual interest period.

The computation of interest for any fractional part of an annual interest period is made on the basis of 365 actual days in such period, or 366 days if February 29 falls within such annual period.

Computation of interest on Treasury bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness will be made on a semiannual basis in all cases where interest is payable for one or more full half-year (6 months) periods, or for one or more full half-year periods and a fractional part of a half-year period. A semiannual interest period is an exact half-year or 6 months, for computation purposes, and may comprise 181, 182, 183 or 184 actual days.

An exact half-year's interest at the specified rate is computed for each full period of exactly 6 months, irrespective of the actual number of days in the half-year.

If the initial interest covers a fractional part of a half-year, computation is made on the basis of the actual number of days in the half-year (exactly 6 months) ending on the day such initial interest becomes due. If the initial interest covers a period in excess of 6 months, computation is made on the basis of one full half-year, ending with the interest due date, and a fractional part of the preceding full half-year period.

Interest for any fractional part of a full half-year period is computed on the basis of the exact number of days in the full period, including February 29 whenever it falls within such a period.

The number of days in any half-year period is shown in the following table:

The following are dates for end-of-the-month interest computations.

In the appended tables decimals are set forth for use in computing interest for fractional parts of interest periods. The decimals cover interest on $1,000 for 1 day in each possible semiannual (Table I), and annual (Table II) interest period, at all rates of interest, in steps ofpercent, fromto 9 percent. The amount of interest accruing on any date (for a fractional part of an interest period) on $1,000 face amount of any issue of Treasury bonds, Treasury notes, or Treasury certificates of indebtedness may be ascertained in the following way:

(1) The date of issue, the dates for the payment of interest, the basis (semiannual or annual) upon which interest is computed, and the rate of interest (percent per annum) may be determined from the text of the security, or from the official circular governing the issue.

(2) Determine the interest period of which the fraction is a part, and calculate the number of days in the full period to determine the proper column to be used in selecting the decimal for 1 day's interest.

(3) Calculate the actual number of days in the fractional period from but not including the date of issue or the day on which the last preceding interest payment was made, to and including the day on which the next succeeding interest payment is due or the day as of which the transaction which terminates the accrual of additional interest is effected.

(4) Multiply the appropriate decimal (1 day's interest on $1,000) by the number of days in the fractional part of the interest period. The appropriate decimal will be found in the appended table for interest payable semiannually or annually, as the case may be, opposite the rate borne by the security, and in the column showing the full interest period of which the fractional period is a part. (For interest on any other amount, multiply the amount of interest on $1,000 by the other amount expressed as a decimal of $1,000.)

The methods of computing discount rates on U.S. Treasury bills are given below:

Computation will be made on an annual basis in all cases. The annual period for bank discount is a year of 360 days, and all computations of such discount will be made on that basis. The annual period for true discount is 1 full year from but not including the date of issue to and including the anniversary of such date. Computation of true discount for a fractional part of a year will be made on the basis of 365 days in the year, or 366 days if February 29 falls within the year.

The bank discount rate on a Treasury bill may be ascertained by: (1) Subtracting the sale price of the bill from its face value to obtain the amount of discount; (2) dividing the amount of discount by the number of days the bill is to run to obtain the amount of discount per day; (3) multiplying the amount of discount per day by 360 (the number of days in a commercial year of 12 months of 30 days each) to obtain the amount of discount per year; and (4) dividing the amount of discount per year by the face value of the bill to obtain the bank discount rate.

The true discount rate on a Treasury bill of not more than one-half year in length may be ascertained by (1 and 2) obtaining the amount of discount per day by following the first two steps described under "Bank Discount"; (3) multiplying the amount of discount per day by the actual number of days in the year from date of issue (365 ordinarily, but 366 if February 29 falls within the year from date of issue) to obtain the amount of discount per year; and (4) dividing the amount of discount per year by the sale price of the bill to obtain the true discount rate.
