
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 306 - GENERAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING U.S. SECURITIES
###### Subpart F - Assignments of Registered Securities - General
####### ยง 306.45 Certifying individuals.
######## General.

(a)The following individuals may certify assignments of, or forms with respect to, securities:

(1) Officers and employees of depository institutions, corporate central credit unions, and institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs who have been authorized:

(i) Generally to bind their respective institutions by their acts;

(ii) Unqualifiedly to guarantee signatures to assignments of securities; or

(iii) To certify assignments of securities.

(2) Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks and branches.

(3) Officers of Federal Land Banks, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks and Banks for Cooperatives, and Federal Home Loan Banks.

(4) Commissioned officers and warrant officers of the Armed Forces of the United States but only with respect to signatures executed by Armed Forces personnel, civilian field employees, and members of their families.

(5) U.S. Attorneys, Collectors of Customs, and Regional Commissioners, District Directors, and Service Center Directors, Internal Revenue Service.

(6) Judges and Clerks of U.S. Courts.

(7) Such other persons as the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service or his designee may authorize.
