
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 315 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING U.S. SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, AND K, AND U.S. SAVINGS NOTES
###### Subpart B - Registration
####### ยง 315.5 General rules.
######## Requests for registration.,Miss, Mr., Mrs., Ms., Dr., Rev., M.D.,,D.D..,Sr.,Jr.,,Mary A. Jones,Mrs. Mary A. Jones,,Mrs. Frank B. Jones.

(b)Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable. The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity. An individual should be designated by the name he or she is ordinarily known by or uses in business, including at least one full given name. The name may be preceded or followed by any applicable title, such asorA suffix, such asormust be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used; for example,orNOTThe address must include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature, city, State, and ZIP Code.
