
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 315 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING U.S. SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, AND K, AND U.S. SAVINGS NOTES
###### Subpart H - General Provisions for Payment
####### ยง 315.39 Surrender for payment.
######## Procedure for all other cases.

(b)In the case of a bond to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment, should appear before an officer authorized to certify requests for payment, establish his or her identity, sign the request for payment, and provide information as to the address to which the check in payment is to be mailed. In addition, in the case of a Series E bond or savings note, the presenter must record his or her social security number on the face of the security, provided it does not already appear in the inscription. The bond must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made by check drawn to the order of the registered owner or other person entitled and will be mailed to the address requested.
