
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 321 - PAYMENTS BY BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS OF DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS AND UNITED STATES SAVINGS NOTES (FREEDOM SHARES)
###### Subpart C - Scope of Authority
####### ยง 321.8 Redemption-exchange of Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes.
######## Requirements for redemption-exchange.

(b)An agent shall not accept and redeem eligible securities on exchange unless:

(1) The securities are accompanied by a completed exchange subscription signed by the presenter;

(2) The presenter is the owner, the legal representative (excluding a representative of a decedent's estate), the surviving coowner or beneficiary, or the principal coowner (as defined in ยง 352.7(e)(2) in 31 CFR part 352 (Circular No. 2-80)) of the securities presented for exchange and is to be named as owner or first-named coowner on the Series HH bonds; and

(3) The request for payment on each security is signed by the presenter. A presenter who is a legal representative should show the full title adjacent to each signature and, in the case of a corporate legal representative, should show the full corporate name, as well as the title. If the name of the presenter has been changed by marriage, or if the presenter is named as beneficiary or legal representative on the securities, the agent may process the transaction in accordance with the provisions of ยง 321.7 (b), (d), or (e) of this part. If the agent is authorized and elects to use the special endorsement procedure, set out in 31 CFR part 330 (Circular No. 888, current revision), the requests for payment do not need to be signed; however, this special endorsement may not be used in lieu of the presenter's signature on the exchange subscription.
