
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 321 - PAYMENTS BY BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS OF DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS AND UNITED STATES SAVINGS NOTES (FREEDOM SHARES)
###### Subpart C - Scope of Authority
####### § 321.9 Specific limitations on payment authority.

An agent is not authorized to redeem a security for cash or on redemption-exchange:

(a)(1) If it is a Series EE bond or a Series I bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, presented for payment prior to six months from its issue date; or

(2) If it is a Series EE bond or a Series I bond issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, presented for payment prior to 12 months from its issue date.

(b) If it is a savings bond of Series F, G, H, J, K, or HH.

(c) If the presenter is acting under a power of attorney.

(d) If the agent does not know or cannot establish the identity of the presenter as a person entitled to request payment as provided in § 321.7.

(e) If the presenter does not sign his or her name in ink as it is inscribed on the security (except as provided in § 321.7 (b) or (c) of this part, or appears in evidence of appointment (see § 321.7(f)), and show a home or business address.

(f) If the taxpayer identifying number of the presenter, or the estate represented by the presenter, is not known to the agent and the presenter refuses to furnish the number.

(g) If the security bears a material irregularity, such as an illegible, incomplete or unauthorized inscription, issue date, or issuing agent's validating data, or if any essential part of the security appears to have been altered or is mutilated or defaced in such a manner as to create doubt or arouse suspicion.

(h) If the security is registered in the name of a corporation, association, partnership, or other organization in its own right.

(i) If Treasury regulations require the submission of documentary evidence to support the redemption, except as provided in § 321.7 (d) or (f) of this part, as in the case of incompetents, minors under legal guardianship, or the change of a registrant's name other than by marriage.

(j) If the presenter is a minor who, in the opinion of the agent, is not of sufficient competency and understanding to sign the request for payment and comprehend the nature of the act.

(k) If it is known to the agent that the presenter has been legally declared incompetent to manage his or her affairs.

(l) If partial redemption is requested.
