
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 321 - PAYMENTS BY BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS OF DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS AND UNITED STATES SAVINGS NOTES (FREEDOM SHARES)
###### Subpart D - Payment and Transmittal of Securities
####### ยง 321.11 Payment.
######## Evidence-Payment to a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate.

(d)The agent shall determine whether the legal representative is entitled to request payment, as provided in ยง 321.7(f). In addition to establishing the presenter's identification, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the agent shall require evidence of appointment as well as evidence of the dates of death of all persons named in the registrations of the securities presented. Evidence of the representative's appointment must be either a court certificate or a copy of the letters of appointment, certified to be true and correct under seal of the court or clerk of court. If the original appointment was made more than one year prior to the presentation of the securities it must also bear the court clerk's statement that the appointment is in full force and effect. This statement must be under seal of the court or clerk of court and dated within six months of the presentation. Such evidence of appointment must pertain to the estate of the last deceased registrant designated on the securities. A copy of a death certificate, certified under seal of the State or local registrar, is the only acceptable evidence of the date of death.
