
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 5 - TREASURY DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Treasury Debts
##### ยง 5.10 How will Treasury entities use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect a Treasury debt?
###### Administrative review.

(c)The notice described in ยง 5.4 of this part shall explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of a Treasury entity's determination that the debtor owes a Treasury debt and how to present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, Treasury entities will provide the debtor with a "paper hearing" based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. Treasury entities shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Treasury entity determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although Treasury entities should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. Treasury entities may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute. Each Treasury entity will have its own policies and procedures concerning the administrative review process consistent with the FCCS and the regulations in this section.
