
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 339 - EXCHANGE OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES H
###### ยง 339.3 Exchanges with privilege of deferring reporting of interest for Federal income tax purposes.
####### principal coowner

(2) A Series H bond issued upon exchange will be registered in the name of the owner of the securities submitted in any authorized form of registration. However, themust be named as owner or coowner.

(3) The total current redemption value of the securities submitted for exchange in any one transaction must amount to $500 or more. If the total current redemption value is in an even multiple of $500, Series H bonds must be requested in that exact amount. If the total current redemption value exceeds $500, but is not in an even multiple of $500, the owner has the option of furnishing cash necessary to obtain Series H bonds of the next higher $500 multiple, or of receiving payment of the difference between the total current redemption value and the next lower multiple of $500. For example, under the rules prescribed in this circular, if the securities submitted for exchange in one transaction total $4,253.33 current redemption value, the owner may elect to:

(i) Receive $4,000 in Series H bonds and the amount of the difference, $253.33, or

(ii) Pay the difference, $246.67, necessary to obtain $4,500 in Series H bonds.

(4) Any amount paid to the owner as a cash adjustment (as in paragraph (3)(i) of this section) must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which it is received up to an amount not in excess of the total interest on the securities exchanged.

(5) Each Series H bond issued under this section will be stamped "EX" or "EXCH" to show that it was issued upon exchange. Each bond also will bear a legend showing how much of its issue price represents interest on the securities exchanged. This interest must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which the Series H bond is redeemed, is disposed of, or finally matures, whichever is earlier.

(6) The Series H bonds will be dated as of the first day of the month in which the securities, the exchange subscription, any necessary cash difference and supporting evidence, if any, are accepted for exchange by an authorized agency.
