
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 344 - U.S. TREASURY SECURITIES - STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERIES
###### Subpart A - General Information
####### ยง 344.2 What general provisions apply to SLGS securities?
######## Sale of marketable securities conditioned on interest rates.

(ii)The existing escrow for an advance refunding contains marketable securities which produce a negative arbitrage. In order to reduce or eliminate this negative arbitrage, the issuer subscribes for SLGS securities at a yield higher than the yield on the existing escrow, but less than the permitted yield. At the same time, the issuer agrees to sell the marketable securities in the existing escrow to a third party and use the proceeds to purchase SLGS securities if interest rates decline between the date of subscribing for SLGS securities and the requested date of issuance of SLGS securities. The marketable securities would be sold at a yield which is less than the yield on the SLGS securities purchased. The issuer and the third party further agree that if interest rates increase during this period, the issuer will cancel the SLGS securities subscription. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under ยง 344.5(c) or ยง 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
