
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 344 - U.S. TREASURY SECURITIES - STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERIES
###### Subpart A - General Information
####### ยง 344.2 What general provisions apply to SLGS securities?
######## Early redemption of time deposit security and subsequent purchase of marketable security.

(v)On February 6, 2006, an issuer purchases a Time Deposit security using tax-exempt bond proceeds in a debt service reserve fund. The Time Deposit security has a principal amount of $7 million, an interest rate of 3.63 percent, and a maturity date of February 6, 2009. On March 1, 2007, the issuer submits a request to redeem the Time Deposit security on March 15, 2007. The yield used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds is 3.21 percent. On March 5, 2007, the issuer subscribes for the purchase, on March 15, 2007, of a second Time Deposit security. The issuer pays for the second Time Deposit security on March 15, 2007, with the redemption proceeds of the first Time Deposit security. The second Time Deposit security has an interest rate of 2.77 percent and a maturity date of April 16, 2007. On April 9, 2007, the issuer enters into a contract to purchase, on April 16, 2007, a ten-year, marketable Treasury security using the principal and interest to be received at the maturity of the second Time Deposit security. The marketable Treasury security has a yield of 4.02 percent. This transaction satisfies the yield limitation in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section because:

(A) The yield on the second Time Deposit security does not exceed the yield that is used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for the first Time Deposit security; and

(B) The second Time Deposit security is not redeemed before maturity and therefore the re-investment of the principal and interest received on the second Time Deposit security is not subject to the yield limitation in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section. This transaction constitutes a permissible use of the SLGS program.
