
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 346 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING UNITED STATES INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT BONDS
###### ยง 346.8 Payment or redemption during lifetime of owner.
####### In case of disability.

(2)An Individual Retirement Bond will be paid at its then current redemption value upon a registered owner's request (or by a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf) prior to his attainment of age 59years upon submission of a physician's statement or any similar evidence showing that the owner has become disabled to such an extent that he is unable to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite duration. The following are examples of impairments which would ordinarily be considered as preventing substantial, gainful activity:

(i) Loss of use of two limbs.

(ii) Certain progressive diseases which have resulted in the physical loss or atrophy of a limb, such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or Buerger's disease.

(iii) Disease of the heart, lungs, or blood vessels which have resulted in major loss of heart or lung reserve as evidenced by X-ray, electrocardiogram, or other objective findings, so that despite medical treatment breathlessness, pain, or fatigue is produced on slight exertion, such as walking several blocks, using public transportation, or doing small chores.

(iv) Cancer which is inoperable and progressive.

(v) Damage to the brain or brain abnormality which has resulted in severe loss of judgment, intellect, orientation, or memory.

(vi) Mental diseases (e.g., psychosis or severe psychoneurosis) requiring continued institutionalization or constant supervision of the individual.

(vii) Loss or diminution of vision to the extent that the effected individual has a central visual acuity of not better than 20/200 in the better eye after best correction, or has a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual fields subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.

(viii) Permanent and total loss of speech.

(ix) Total deafness uncorrectible by a hearing aid.
