
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 352 - OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES HH
###### ยง 352.7 Issues on exchange.
####### Registration.

(e)A Series HH bond issued on exchange was permitted to be registered in any form authorized in subpart B of Circular No. 3-80, subject to the following restrictions:

(1) If the securities submitted for exchange were in single ownership form, the owner was required to be named as owner or first-named coowner on the Series HH bonds. A coowner or beneficiary was permitted to be named.

(2) If the securities submitted for exchange were in coownership form, and one coowner was the "principal coowner", that person was required to be named as owner or first-named coowner on the Series HH bonds. A coowner or beneficiary was also permitted to be named. The "principal coowner" was the coowner who purchased the securities presented for exchange with his or her own funds, or received them as a gift, inheritance or legacy, or as a result of judicial proceedings, and had them reissued in coownership form, provided he or she had received no contribution in money or money's worth for designating the other coowner on the securities.

(3) If the securities presented for exchange were in coownership form, and both coowners shared in their purchase or received them jointly as a gift, inheritance, or legacy or as a result of judicial proceedings, both persons were required to be named as coowners on the Series HH bonds.

(4) If the securities presented for exchange were in beneficiary form, the owner was required to be named on the Series HH bonds as owner or first-named coowner. If the owner was deceased, a surviving beneficiary was required to be named as owner or first-named coowner. In either case, a coowner or beneficiary was permitted to be named.
