
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 5 - TREASURY DEBT COLLECTION
#### Appendix A to Part 5 - Treasury Directive 34-01 - Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments
##### not

c. If the deciding official finds no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, the employee isautomatically entitled to a waiver. Before a waiver can be granted, the deciding official must also determine that collection of the claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States. Factors to consider when determining if collection of a claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States include, but are not limited to:

(1) Whether collection of the claim would cause serious financial hardship to the employee from whom collection is sought.

(2) Whether, because of the erroneous payment, the employee either has relinquished a valuable right or changed positions for the worse, regardless of the employee's financial circumstances.

(a) To establish that a valuable right has been relinquished, it must be shown that the right was, in fact, valuable; that it cannot be regained; and that the action was based chiefly or solely on reliance on the overpayment.

(b) To establish that the employee's position has changed for the worse, it must be shown that the decision would not have been made but for the overpayment, and that the decision resulted in a loss.

(c) An example of a "detrimental reliance" would be a decision to sign a lease for a more expensive apartment based chiefly or solely upon reliance on an erroneous calculation of salary, and the funds spent for rent cannot be recovered.

(3) The cost of collecting the claim equals or exceeds the amount of the claim;

(4) The time elapsed between the erroneous payment and discovery of the error and notification of the employee;

(5) Whether failure to make restitution would result in unfair gain to the employee;

(6) Whether recovery of the claim would be unconscionable under the circumstances.

d. The burden is on the employee to demonstrate that collection of the claim would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.

a. 5 U.S.C. ยง 5584, "Claims for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances, and of Travel, Transportation and Relocation Expenses and Allowances."

b. 31 U.S.C. ยง 3711, "Collection and Compromise."

c. 31 U.S.C. ยง 3716, "Administrative Offset."

d. 31 U.S.C. ยง 3717, "Interest and Penalty on Claims."

e. 5 CFR Part 550, subpart K, "Collection by Offset from Indebted Government Employees."

f. 31 CFR Part 5, subpart B, "Salary Offset."

g. Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316, OMB, December 17, 1996.

TD 34-01, "Waiver of Claims for Erroneous Payments," dated October 25, 1995, is superseded.

Office of Accounting and Internal Control.
