
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 353 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES EE AND HH
###### Subpart F - Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, Defacement, or Nonreceipt of Bonds
####### ยง 353.26 Application for relief - After receipt of bond.

(a) If the serial numbers of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bonds are known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.

(b) If the bond serial number is not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See ยง 353.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.

(c) If applicable, a defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to the Bureau.

(d) The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under these regulations to request payment of the bond. In addition:

(1) If the bond is in beneficiary form and the owner and beneficiary are both living, both will ordinarily be required to join in the application.

(2) If a minor named on a bond as owner, coowner, or beneficiary is not of sufficient competency and understanding to request payment, both parents will ordinarily be required to join in the application.

(e) If the application is approved on or before February 14, 2014, relief will be granted either by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment. If the application is approved after February 14, 2014, relief for Series HH bonds will be granted either by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment, and relief for Series EE bonds will be granted either by the issuance of a book-entry bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment.
