
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Subpart B - Bidding, Certifications, and Payment
####### ยง 356.13 When must I report my net long position and how do I calculate it?
######## Calculating the net long position in a reopening.

(d)In a reopening (additional issue) of an outstanding security, you may subtract the exclusion amount stated in the auction announcement from:

(1) Your holdings of the outstanding securities (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) combined with

(2) Your holdings of STRIPS principal components of the security being auctioned (paragraph (c)(2) of this section). We will specify the amount of holdings that you may exclude from the net long position calculation in the auction announcement. You may not take the exclusion if your combined holdings are zero or less. The exclusion is optional, but if you take the exclusion, you must include any holdings that exceed the exclusion amount in calculating your net long position. If the exclusion amount is greater than your combined holdings (paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section), you may calculate the combined holdings as zero, but they cannot be included in the calculation as a negative number.
