
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Subpart B - Bidding, Certifications, and Payment
####### ยง 356.17 How and when do I pay for securities awarded in an auction?
######## Commercial book-entry system.

(c)Unless you make other provisions, payment of the settlement amount must be by charge to the funds account of a depository institution at a Federal Reserve Bank.

(1) A submitter that does not have a funds account at a Federal Reserve Bank or that chooses not to pay by charge to its own funds account must have an approved autocharge agreement on file with us before submitting any bids. Any depository institution whose funds account will be charged under an autocharge agreement will receive advance notice from us of the total par amount of, and price to be charged for, securities awarded as a result of the submitter's bids.

(2) A submitter that is a member of a clearing corporation may instruct that delivery and payment be made through the clearing corporation for securities awarded to the submitter for its own account. To do this, the following requirements must be met prior to submitting any bids:

(i) We must have acknowledged and have on file an autocharge agreement between the clearing corporation and a depository institution. By entering into such an agreement, the clearing corporation authorizes us to provide aggregate par and price information to the depository institution whose funds account will be charged under the agreement. The clearing corporation is responsible for remitting payment for auction awards of the clearing corporation member.

(ii) We must have acknowledged and have on file a delivery and payment agreement between the submitter and the clearing corporation. By entering into such an agreement, the submitter authorizes us to provide award and payment information to the clearing corporation.
