
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix A to Part 356 - Bidder Categories
####### Foreign and International Monetary Authority ("FIMA")

(f)-We consider one or more parties making up a foreign or international monetary organization that is not private in nature to be a bidder called a FIMA entity if at least one of the parties is a foreign or international entity that is (i) financial in nature, or (ii) not financial in nature but is authorized to open an account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. We consider each of the following entities to be a single FIMA entity:

(1) A foreign central bank or regional central bank.

(2) A foreign governmental monetary or finance entity.

(3) A non-governmental international financial organization that is not private in nature (for example, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank).

(4) A non-financial international organization that the United States participates in (for example, the United Nations).

(5) A multi-party arrangement of a governmental ministry and/or a foreign central bank or monetary authority with a United States Government Department and/or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

(6) A foreign or international monetary entity or an entity authorized by statute or by us to open accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
