
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix A to Part 356 - Bidder Categories
####### Other Bidder

(g)-We do not consider a bidder defined by any of the above categories to be a bidder in this category. For purposes of this definition, "other bidder" means an institution or organization with a unique IRS-assigned employer identification number. This definition includes such entities as an association, church, university, union, or club. This category does not include any person or entity acting in a fiduciary or investment management capacity, a sole proprietorship, an investment account, an investment fund, a form of registration, or investment ownership designation.

Under certain circumstances, we may recognize a major organizational component (e.g., the parent or a subsidiary) in a corporate or partnership structure as a bidder separate from the larger corporate or partnership structure. We also may recognize two or more major organizational components collectively as one bidder. All of the following criteria must be met for such component(s) to qualify for recognition as a separate bidder:

(a) Such component(s) must be prohibited by law or regulation from exchanging, or must have established written internal procedures designed to prevent the exchange of, information related to bidding in Treasury auctions with any other component in the corporate or partnership structure;

(b) Such component(s) must not be created for the purpose of circumventing our bidding and award limitations;

(c) Decisions related to purchasing Treasury securities at auction and participation in specific auctions must be made by employees of such component(s). Employees of such component(s) that make decisions to purchase or dispose of Treasury securities must not perform the same function for other components within the corporate or partnership structure; and

(d) The records of such component(s) related to the bidding for, acquisition of, and disposition of Treasury securities must be maintained by such component(s). Those records must be identifiable-separate and apart from similar records for other components within the corporate or partnership structure. To obtain recognition as a separate bidder, each component or group of components must request such recognition from us, provide a description of the component or group and its position within the corporate or partnership structure, and provide the following certification:

[Name of the bidder] hereby certifies that to the best of its knowledge and belief it meets the criteria for a separate bidder as described in appendix A to 31 CFR part 356. The above-named bidder also certifies that it has established written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent the component or group of components from:

(1) Exchanging any of the following information with any other part of the corporate [partnership] structure: (a) Yields, discount rates, or discount margins at which it plans to bid; (b) amounts of securities for which it plans to bid; (c) positions that it holds or plans to acquire in a security being auctioned; and (d) investment strategies that it plans to follow regarding the security being auctioned, or

(2) In any way intentionally acting together with any other part of the corporate [partnership] structure with respect to formulating or entering bids in a Treasury auction.

The above-named bidder agrees that it will promptly notify the Department in writing when any of the information provided to obtain separate bidder status changes or when this certification is no longer valid.
