
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix B to Part 356 - Formulas and Tables
####### Short First Payment Period.

3.In cases where the first interest payment period for a Treasury non-indexed security covers less than a full half-year period (a "short coupon"), we multiply the daily interest decimal by the number of days from, but not including, the issue date to, and including, the first interest payment date. This calculation results in the amount of the interest payable per $1,000 par amount. In cases where the par amount of securities is a multiple of $1,000, we multiply the appropriate multiple by the unrounded interest payment amount per $1,000 par amount.

A 2-year note paying 8% interest was issued on July 2, 1990, with the first interest payment on December 31, 1990. The number of days in the full half-year period of June 30 to December 31, 1990, was 184 (See Table 1.). The number of days for which interest actually accrued was 182 (not including July 2, but including December 31). The daily interest decimal, $0.227581522 (See Table 2, line for 8%, under the column for half-year of 184 days.), was multiplied by 182, resulting in a payment of $41.419837004 per $1,000. For $20,000 of these notes, $41.419837004 would be multiplied by 20, resulting in a payment of $828.39674008 ($828.40).
