
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix B to Part 356 - Formulas and Tables
####### Long First Payment Period.

4.In cases where the first interest payment period for a bond or note covers more than a full half-year period (a "long coupon"), we multiply the daily interest decimal by the number of days from, but not including, the issue date to, and including, the last day of the fractional period that ends one full half-year before the interest payment date. We add that amount to the regular interest amount for the full half-year ending on the first interest payment date, resulting in the amount of interest payable for $1,000 par amount. In cases where the par amount of securities is a multiple of $1,000, the appropriate multiple should be applied to the unrounded interest payment amount per $1,000 par amount.

A 5-year 2-month note paying 7% interest was issued on December 3, 1990, with the first interest payment due on August 15, 1991. Interest for the regular half-year portion of the payment was computed to be $39.375 per $1,000 par amount. The fractional portion of the payment, from December 3 to February 15, fell in a 184-day half-year (August 15, 1990, to February 15, 1991). Accordingly, the daily interest decimal for 7% was $0.213994565. This decimal, multiplied by 74 (the number of days from but not including December 3, 1990, to and including February 15), resulted in interest for the fractional portion of $15.835597810. When added to $39.375 (the normal interest payment portion ending on August 15, 1991), this produced a first interest payment of $55.210597810, or $55.21 per $1,000 par amount. For $7,000 par amount of these notes, $55.210597810 would be multiplied by 7, resulting in an interest payment of $386.474184670 ($386.47).
