
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix B to Part 356 - Formulas and Tables
####### Reference CPI.

3.The Ref CPI for the first day of any calendar month is the CPI for the third preceding calendar month. For example, the Ref CPI applicable to April 1 in any year is the CPI for January, which is reported in February. We determine the Ref CPI for any other day of a month by a linear interpolation between the Ref CPI applicable to the first day of the month in which the day falls (in the example, January) and the Ref CPI applicable to the first day of the next month (in the example, February). For interpolation purposes, we truncate calculations with regard to the Ref CPI and the Index Ratio for a specific date to six decimal places, and round to five decimal places.

Therefore the Ref CPI and the Index Ratio for a particular date will be expressed to five decimal places.

(i) The formula for the Ref CPI for a specific date is:

(ii) For example, the Ref CPI for April 15, 1996 is calculated as follows:

(iii) Putting these values in the equation in paragraph (ii) above:

This value truncated to six decimals is 154.633333; rounded to five decimals it is 154.63333.

(iv) To calculate the Index Ratio for April 16, 1996, for an inflation-protected security issued on April 15, 1996, the Ref CPImust first be calculated. Using the same values in the equation above except that t = 16, the Ref CPIis 154.65000.

The Index Ratio for April 16, 1996 is:

This value truncated to six decimals is 1.000107; rounded to five decimals it is 1.00011.
