
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix B to Part 356 - Formulas and Tables
####### Computation of Interest for a Regular Half-Year Payment Period.

5.Interest on marketable Treasury inflation-protected securities is payable on a semiannual basis. The regular interest payment period is a full half-year or six calendar months. Examples of half-year periods are January 15 to July 15, and April 15 to October 15. An interest payment will be a fixed percentage of the value of the inflation-adjusted principal, in current dollars, for the date on which it is paid. We will calculate interest payments by multiplying one-half of the specified annual interest rate for the inflation-protected securities by the inflation-adjusted principal for the interest payment date.

Specifically, we compute a semiannual interest payment on the basis of one-half of one year's interest regardless of the actual number of days in the half-year.

A 10-year inflation-protected note paying 3interest was issued on January 15, 1999, with the first interest payment on July 15, 1999. The Ref CPI on January 15, 1999 (Ref CPI) was 164, and the Ref CPI on July 15, 1999 (Ref CPI) was 166.2. For a par amount of $100,000, the inflation-adjusted principal on July 15, 1999, was (166.2/164) x $100,000, or $101,341. This amount was multiplied by .03875/2, or .019375, resulting in a payment of $1,963.48.
