
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix B to Part 356 - Formulas and Tables
####### Index Contingencies.

4.

(i) If Treasury were to discontinue auctions of 13-week bills, the Secretary has authority to determine and announce a new index for outstanding floating rate notes.

(ii) If Treasury were to not conduct a 13-week bill auction in a particular week, then the interest rate in effect for the notes at the time of the last 13-week bill auction results announcement will remain in effect until such time, if any, as the results of a 13-week Treasury auction are again announced by Treasury. Treasury reserves the right to change the index rate for any newly issued floating rate note.

1. You will have to pay accrued interest on a Treasury bond or note when interest accrues prior to the issue date of the security. Because you receive a full interest payment despite having held the security for only a portion of the interest payment period, you must compensate us through the payment of accrued interest at settlement.

2. For a Treasury non-indexed security, if accrued interest covers a fractional portion of a full half-year period, the number of days in the full half-year period and the stated interest rate will determine the daily interest decimal to use in computing the accrued interest. We multiply the decimal by the number of days for which interest has accrued.

3. If a reopened bond or note has a long first interest payment period (a "long coupon"), and the dated date for the reopened issue is less than six full months before the first interest payment, the accrued interest will fall into two separate half-year periods. A separate daily interest decimal must be multiplied by the respective number of days in each half-year period during which interest has accrued.

4. We round all accrued interest computations to five decimal places for a $1,000 par amount, using normal rounding procedures. We calculate accrued interest for a par amount of securities greater than $1,000 by applying the appropriate multiple to accrued interest payable for a $1,000 par amount, rounded to five decimal places. We calculate accrued interest for a par amount of securities less than $1,000 by applying the appropriate fraction to accrued interest payable for a $1,000 par amount, rounded to five decimal places.

5. For an inflation-protected security, we calculate accrued interest as shown in section III, paragraphs A and B of this appendix.

6. For a floating rate note, if accrued interest covers a portion of a full quarterly interest payment period, we calculate accrued interest as shown in section IV, paragraphs C and D of this appendix.
