
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix B to Part 356 - Formulas and Tables
####### a,A,B

The following table shows the projected daily accrued interests for $100 par value ('s), cash flows at interest payment dates ('s), and the compound factors between payment dates ('s).

The price is computed as follows:

C. Pricing and accrued interest for reopened floating rate notes

The purpose of this example is to determine the floating rate note prices with and without accrued interest at the time of the reopening auction. For a two-year floating rate note that was originally auctioned on July 25, 2012, with an issue date of July 31, 2012, reopened in an auction on August 30, 2012 and issued on August 31, 2012, with a maturity date of July 31, 2014, solve for accrued interest per 100 (AI), the price with accrued interest per 100 (P) and the price without accrued interest per 100 (P). Since this is a reopening of an original issue from the prior month, Table 2 as shown in the example is used for accrued interest calculations. In the case of floating rate note reopenings, the spread on the security remains equal to the spread that was established at the original auction of the floating rate notes.

The following table shows the past results for the 13-week bill auction.

The following table shows the index rates applicable for the accrued interest.

The accrued interest as of the new issue date (8/31/2012) for a $100 par value is:

The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
