
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 356 - SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)
###### Appendix D to Part 356 - Description of the Indexes

The Consumer Price Index ("CPI") for purposes of inflation-protected securities is the non-seasonally adjusted U.S. City Average All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers. It is published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), a bureau within the Department of Labor. The CPI is a measure of the average change in consumer prices over time in a fixed market basket of goods and services. This market basket includes food, clothing, shelter, fuels, transportation, charges for doctors' and dentists' services, and drugs.

In calculating the index, price changes for the various items are averaged together with weights that represent their importance in the spending of urban households in the United States. The BLS periodically updates the contents of the market basket of goods and services, and the weights assigned to the various items, to take into account changes in consumer expenditure patterns.

The CPI is expressed in relative terms in relation to a time base reference period for which the level is set at 100. For example, if the CPI for the 1982-84 reference period is 100.0, an increase of 16.5 percent from that period would be shown as 116.5. The CPI for a particular month is released and published during the following month. From time to time, the CPI is rebased to a more recent base reference period. We provide the base reference period for a particular inflation-protected security on the auction announcement for that security.

Further details about the CPI may be obtained by contacting the BLS.

The floating rate note index is the 13-week Treasury bill auction High Rate (stop out rate), and converted to the simple-interest money market yield computed on an actual/360 basis.
