
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 357 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BONDS, NOTES AND BILLS HELD IN TREASURY/RESERVE AUTOMATED DEBT ENTRY SYSTEM (TRADES) AND LEGACY TREASURY DIRECT
###### Appendix B to Part 357 - TRADES Commentary
####### Law governing the rights and obligation of Participants and third parties.

(a)Section 357.11 is a choice of law rule. The substantive matters subject to this choice of law rule are set forth in ยง 357.11(a). The matters set forth in ยง 357.11(a) are meant to be coextensive with those matters covered by Revised Article 8 with respect to a person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security (other than those related to a person's relationship to Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank which are governed solely by federal law). For purposes of these choice of law rules Participants are Securities Intermediaries.

Section 357.11(b) adopts Revised Article 8's general choice of law rule. Section 357.11(c) sets forth a special choice of law rule with respect to security interests perfected automatically or by filing, which also is included in Revised Article 8. Generally, the law applicable to the Securities Intermediary will govern matters involving an interest in a book-entry security held through that intermediary. This approach is not followed with respect to perfection of security interests automatically or by filing. In those cases, the law of the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located is the governing law. Since filing systems are based on the location of the debtor, this approach should reduce uncertainty and preserve the normal practice of searching records based on the debtor's location.The language "person creating a security interest" is used in lieu of the term "debtor" in this provision to avoid any confusion. The word "debtor" has two meanings in the Uniform Commercial Code and the expression "person creating a security interest" provides clarity with respect to who is covered by this section. The term does not refer to a creditor. The language "is located" is intended to conform to its meaning under applicable law, as it may be amended from time to time. See, e.g., U.C.C. section 9-103(3)(d). Section 357.11(d) provides for the application of Revised Article 8 if the choice of law analysis required by ยง 357.11(b) results in the choice of the law of a State that has not yet adopted Revised Article 8. As noted elsewhere, in such a situation, the State's law is viewed as if it had adopted Revised Article 8. This section also provides that, for purposes of applying state law, the Federal Reserve Banks are clearing corporations and Participants' interests in book-entry securities are Security Entitlements.
