
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 359 - OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES I
###### Appendix C to Part 359 - Investment Considerations

(a) If a previously reported CPI-U is revised, we will continue to use the previously reported CPI-U in calculating redemption values.

(b) If the CPI-U is rebased to a different year, we will continue to use the CPI-U based on the base reference period in effect when the security was first issued, as long as that CPI-U continues to be published.

(c) If, while an inflation-indexed savings bonds is outstanding, the applicable CPI-U is discontinued or, in the judgment of the Secretary, fundamentally altered in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security, or, in the judgment of the Secretary, altered by legislation or Executive Order in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security, Treasury, after consulting with the Bureau of Labor Statistics or any successor agency, will substitute an appropriate alternative index. Treasury will then notify the public of the substitute index and how it will be applied. The Secretary's determinations in this regard will be final.

(d) If the CPI-U for a particular month is not reported by the last day of the following month, we will announce an index number based on the last 12-month change in the CPI-U available. Any calculations of our payment obligations on the inflation-indexed savings bonds that rely on that month's CPI-U will be based on the index number that we have announced.

The inflation rate component of investor earnings will be determined twice each year. This rate will be the percentage change in the CPI-U for the six months ending each March and September. The rate will be included in the composite rate that is announced each May and November. For Series I bonds offered from September 1, 1998, through October 31, 1998, the inflation rate component of investor earnings will be the percentage change in the CPI-U for the six months ending March 31, 1998. This rate will be included in the composite rate that is announced for Series I bonds offered effective from September 1, 1998, through October 31, 1998. In the event the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, announces a composite rate at an effective date other than May 1 or November 1, the announcement will specify the period to be used to calculate the semiannual inflation rate. Each composite rate will be effective for the entirety of the applicable rate period that begins while the rate is in effect. Thus, an inflation rate may affect interest accruals from 3 to 13 months from the date that the CPI-U is measured.
