
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 360 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES I
###### Subpart F - Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, Defacement, or Nonreceipt of Bonds
####### ยง 360.26 Application for relief; after receipt of bond.

(a) If the serial numbers of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bonds are known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.

(b) If the bond serial numbers are not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See ยง 360.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.

(c) A defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to a Federal Reserve Office listed in ยง 360.1(b)(2) or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

(d) The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under the regulations in this part to request payment of the bond. In addition:

(1) If the bond is in beneficiary form and the owner and beneficiary are both living, the application must be made by the owner, and the beneficiary may also be required to join in the application to protect the interests of the United States.

(2) If a minor named on a bond as owner, coowner, or beneficiary is not of sufficient competency and understanding to request payment, the parents or other person authorized to request payment under ยง 360.63 will ordinarily be required to join in the application.

(e) If the application is approved on or before February 14, 2014, relief will be granted either by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment. If the application is approved after February 14, 2014, relief will be granted either by the issuance of a book-entry bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment.
