
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 363 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT
###### Subpart B - General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect
####### ยง 363.20 What do I need to know about the forms of registration that are available for purchases of securities through my TreasuryDirect &#xAE; account?
######## Owner with beneficiary.

(2)(i) The purchaser must be named as the owner with another individual as beneficiary.

(ii) The owner may remove or change the beneficiary without the consent of the beneficiary.

(iii) The owner may conduct permitted online transactions on securities held in his or her account without the consent of the beneficiary.

(iv) The beneficiary has no ownership rights to the security during the owner's lifetime. Upon the death of the owner, the security becomes the property of the surviving beneficiary, despite any attempted testamentary disposition or any applicable local law to the contrary.

(v) If the beneficiary does not survive the owner, the security belongs to the estate of the owner.

(vi) If both the owner and the beneficiary die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, who died first, the security is the property of the estate of the owner.

(vii) In order for the beneficiary to obtain the security or the redemption proceeds after the death of the owner, the beneficiary must provide proof of death of the owner. If the beneficiary has a TreasuryDirect account, the security will be transferred to that account. If the beneficiary does not have an account, he or she may establish an account. Alternatively, a beneficiary named on a savings bond may request redemption. If the beneficiary requests redemption, he or she must provide ACH instructions for the payment.

(viii) Registration example: "John Doe, SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Jane Doe, SSN 987-65-4321."
