
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 363 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT
###### Subpart B - General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect
####### ยง 363.20 What do I need to know about the forms of registration that are available for purchases of securities through my TreasuryDirect &#xAE; account?
######## Primary owner with secondary owner.

(3)(i) The purchaser must be named in the registration as the primary owner with another individual as secondary owner.

(ii) The primary owner holds the securities in his or her account and may view or conduct permitted online transactions in the securities.

(iii) The primary owner may remove the secondary owner without the consent of the secondary owner.

(iv) The secondary owner has no rights to view or conduct transactions in any security unless the primary owner gives the secondary owner these rights.

(v) The primary owner may give the secondary owner the right to view any security or rights to view and conduct transactions in any security online from the account of the secondary owner.

(vi) Once the right to conduct transactions in a security has been given to the secondary owner, the primary owner may view and conduct transactions in the security from the primary owner's account, and the secondary owner may view and conduct transactions in the security using the secondary owner's own account.

(vii) The primary owner may revoke any rights previously given to the secondary owner at any time.

(viii) Upon the death of either the primary or secondary owner, the security becomes the property of the survivor, despite any attempted testamentary disposition or any applicable local law to the contrary.

(ix) If both the primary and the secondary owner die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, who died first, the security is the property of the estate of the primary owner.

(x) In order for the secondary owner to obtain the security or the security proceeds after the death of the primary owner, the secondary owner must provide proof of death of the primary owner. If the secondary owner has a TreasuryDirect account, the security will be transferred to that account. If the secondary owner does not have an account, he or she may establish an account. Alternatively, a secondary owner named on a savings bond may request redemption. If the secondary owner requests redemption, he or she must provide ACH instructions.

(xi) Registration example: "John Doe, SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe, SSN 987-65-4321."
