
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 363 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT
###### Subpart B - General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect
####### ยง 363.20 What do I need to know about the forms of registration that are available for purchases of securities through my TreasuryDirect &#xAE; account?
######## Trust.

(5)A trust form of registration is available. The trust form of registration is not available for trusts in which the trustee is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The registration must identify the trust with specificity; at a minimum, it must include the authority or document creating the trust, the date the document was executed (except in the case of a probated will when the date is not necessary), the name of a trustee of the trust who is authorized to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account, and any information that is necessary to distinguish the trust from any other trust. The registration may also include the names of additional trustees and the full name of the trust. If one or more of the trustees are individuals, and the entity account manager is an individual trustee, the entity account manager must be named in the registration. If an organization serving as a trustee of the trust will administer this account, the entity account manager must be a duly authorized employee of that organization who has the authority to act alone on behalf of the organization in its role as trustee of the trust with regard to the account, and the organization must be named in the registration. In either case, the entity account manager must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account. Registration examples: "John Doe, Trustee under Declaration of Trust dated January 1, 2001, SSN 123-45-6789"; "First National Bank, Trustee under Agreement with William Jones dated January 1, 2001, EIN 12-3456789"; "John Doe or Sarah Jones, Trustees under Agreement with Jane Doe dated January 1, 2001, SSN 123-45-6789"; "Sarah Jones, Trustee under the Will of Matthew Smith, deceased, SSN 123-45-6789"; "Jane Doe, Trustee of the Doe Family Trust dated January 1, 2001, EIN 12-3456789."
