
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 363 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT
###### Subpart B - General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect
####### ยง 363.27 What do I need to know about accounts for minors who have not had a legal guardian appointed by a court?
######## Transactions permitted in the minor's account.

(e)(1) The custodian may purchase securities for and on behalf of the minor through the minor's account.

(2) The custodian may redeem savings bonds on behalf of the minor through the minor's account. We will report the interest earned on the security to the name and SSN of the minor.

(3) The custodian may not purchase gift savings bonds from the minor's account.

(4) The custodian may transfer a security to another TreasuryDirect account, provided the account is a linked account bearing the name and taxpayer identification number of the minor. The custodian can transfer a marketable Treasury security to an account in the commercial book-entry system.

(5) Securities may be transferred to the minor's account.

(6) Gift savings bonds may be delivered to the minor's account.

(7) The custodian may grant rights to view and conduct transactions in the security as may be permitted by ยง 363.22.

(8) The custodian may purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness on behalf of the minor. The zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is the property of the minor.
