
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 363 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT
###### Subpart B - General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect
####### ยง 363.27 What do I need to know about accounts for minors who have not had a legal guardian appointed by a court?
######## When the minor reaches the age of 18 years.

(f)(1) The only transactions that the custodian may make in the minor's account after the minor attains the age of 18 years are to purchase new securities, and to transfer the securities contained in the minor's account to another account in the name and SSN of the minor. The receiving account in the name and SSN of the minor may be a primary account established by the minor, or it may be another minor linked account with the same or a different custodian. The custodian may transfer one or more of the securities at a time, or the custodian may de-link the account and transfer all of the securities contained in the account to the minor's previously established primary TreasuryDirect account. The minor must establish his or her own primary TreasuryDirect account prior to transfer of his or her securities.

(2) In order to gain control of the securities held in the minor's account, the minor must first open his or her own primary account.

(3) The minor may gain control of the securities held in the minor's account by the custodian transferring the securities held in the minor's account to the minor's primary account, or the minor may request that Fiscal Service transfer the securities to his or her primary account.

(4) The minor may gain control of his or her zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by the custodian de-linking the account and transferring the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to the minor's primary account, or the minor may request that Fiscal Service de-link the account and transfer the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to his or her primary account.
