
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter II - Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury
#### Subchapter A - Bureau of the Fiscal Service
##### PART 363 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT
###### Subpart B - General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect
####### ยง 363.30 What actions may Treasury take if funds used to purchase a security were credited or debited in error or through fraud?

(a) If Treasury sustains a loss because the funds used to purchase a security were debited from an account at a financial institution from which the TreasuryDirect account owner did not have the right to authorize such ACH debit entry, we reserve the right to redeem that security from the account and use the proceeds to reimburse Treasury for the loss. If such security has been transferred to another TreasuryDirect account, we reserve the right to reverse the transfer, redeem the security, and use the proceeds to reimburse Treasury for the loss. If such security has been redeemed or has matured and the proceeds paid to the account owner, we reserve the right to take any action that we deem appropriate, including redeeming other securities remaining in the account and using the proceeds to reimburse Treasury for the loss.

(b) If an employer or a third-party agent acting on behalf of one or more employers certifies, under penalty of perjury, that it has made an erroneous ACH credit entry to purchase a TreasuryDirect certificate of indebtedness, we reserve the right to redeem securities from the TreasuryDirect account to which the entry was made in the amount of the erroneous entry and return the funds. No action will be taken if the certification is not received by Treasury within 45 days of the erroneous entry. We will only return funds if the erroneous entry was made to an account that does not belong to the intended recipient, is a duplicate payment, is in an amount that is greater than was authorized by the recipient, or was made in error because the employee was not in a pay status. We reserve the right to refuse to return an entry. By requesting that Treasury correct an erroneous entry, the employer agrees to indemnify Treasury for any loss that Treasury may incur as a result of the correction of the error and agrees to provide such information and assistance as Treasury may require.

(c) If a financial institution, except a financial institution acting on behalf of an employer, makes an erroneous ACH credit entry to a TreasuryDirect&#xAE; account and provides a certification as to the circumstances of the erroneous entry within 6 months of the entry date, we will notify the account owner of the erroneous ACH credit entry and attempt to resolve the issue. We reserve the right to place a hold on and to redeem securities from the TreasuryDirect&#xAE; account to which the ACH credit entry was made in the amount of the erroneous credit entry and return the funds to the financial institution. The financial institution agrees to indemnify Treasury for any loss that Treasury may incur as a result of the correction of the error and agrees to provide information and assistance as Treasury may require.
