
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 8 - PRACTICE BEFORE THE BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO AND FIREARMS
#### Subpart E - Disciplinary Proceedings
##### ยง 8.65 Depositions.

Depositions for use at a hearing may, with the written approval of the Administrative Law Judge, be taken by either the Director of Practice or the respondent or their authorized representatives. Depositions may be taken upon oral or written questioning, upon not less than 10 days' written notice to the other party before any officer authorized to administer an oath for general purposes or before an officer or employee of the Bureau authorized to administer an oath pursuant to 27 CFR 70.35. The written notice will state the names of the witnesses and the time and place where the depositions are to be taken. The requirement of 10 days' notice may be waived by the parties in writing, and depositions may then be taken from the persons and at the times and places mutually agreed to by the parties. When a deposition is taken upon written questioning, any cross-examination will be upon written questioning. Copies of the written questioning will be served upon the other party with the notice, and copies of any written cross-interrogation will be mailed or delivered to the opposing party at least 5 days before the date of taking the depositions, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. A party on whose behalf a deposition is taken must file it with the Administrative Law Judge and serve one copy upon the opposing party. Expenses in the reproduction of depositions will be borne by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken.
