
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 9 - EFFECTS OF IMPORTED ARTICLES ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
#### ยง 9.5 Applications for investigation.

(a) Applications shall be in writing. Twenty-five copies shall be filed by mail with the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.

(b) Applications shall describe how the quantities or circumstances of imports of the particular article affect the national security and shall contain the following information:

(1) Identification of the person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity on whose behalf the application is filed.

(2) A precise description of the article.

(3) Description of the applicant and the domestic industry concerned, including pertinent information regarding companies and their plants, locations, capacity and current output of the domestic industry concerned with the article in question.

(4) Pertinent statistics showing the quantities and values of both imports and production in the United States.

(5) Nature, sources, and degree of the competition created by imports of the article in question.

(6) The effect, if any, of imports of the article in question upon the restoration of domestic production capacity in an emergency.

(7) Employment and special skills involved in the domestic production of the article.

(8) Extent to which investment and specialized productive capacity is or will be adversely affected.

(9) Revenues of Federal, State, or local Governments which are or may be affected by the volume or circumstances of imports of the article.

(10) Defense or defense supporting uses of the article including data on defense contracts or sub-contracts, both past and current.

(c) Statistical material presented should be on a calendar-year basis for sufficient periods of time to indicate trends and afford the greatest possible assistance to the Assistant Secretary. Monthly or quarterly data for the latest complete years should be included as well as any other breakdowns which may be pertinent to show seasonal or short-term factors.
