
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter IV - Secret Service, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 409 - STANDARD AND PROCEDURES UTILIZED IN ISSUING A SECURITY CLEARANCE IN CONNECTION WITH AN APPLICATION FOR A PRESS PASS TO THE WHITE HOUSE
##### ยง 409.2 Procedures.

(a) If the Special Agent in Charge of the Secret Service, Technical Security Division, in applying the standard set forth in ยง 409.1, anticipates that a denial of the security clearance should be issued, the applicant will be notified in writing, by that official, of the basis for the proposed denial in as much detail as the security of any confidential source of information will permit. This notification will be sent by registered mail.

(b) The notification of the proposed denial sent to the applicant will also contain a statement advising the applicant of his right to respond to the proposed denial and to rebut any factual basis supporting the proposed denial by contacting the Assistant Director-Protective Operations, United States Secret Service, 1800 "G" Street, NW., Washington, DC 20223.

(c) The applicant shall be allowed thirty days from the date of the mailing of the proposed denial notification to respond in writing. The response shall consist of any explanation or rebuttal deemed appropriate by the applicant and will be signed by the applicant under oath or affirmation.

(d) If the applicant is unable to prepare a response within thirty days, an extension for one additional thirty day period will be granted upon receipt of the applicant's written request for such an extension.

(e) At the time of the filing of the applicant's written response to the notification of the proposed denial the applicant may request, and will be granted, the opportunity to make a personal appearance before the Assistant Director-Protective Operations of the Secret Service for the purpose of personally supporting his eligibility for a security clearance and to rebut or explain the factual basis for the proposed denial. This official shall exercise final review authority in the matter. The applicant may be represented by counsel during this appearance.

(f)(1) On the basis of the applicant's written and personal response and the factual basis for the proposed denial, the Assistant Director-Protective Operations of the Secret Service will determine whether or not further inquiry or investigation concerning the issues raised, is necessary.

(2) If a decision is made that no such inquiry is necessary a final decision will be issued in conformity with paragraph (g) of this section.

(3) If a decision is made that such further inquiry is necessary the Assistant Director-Protective Operations of the Secret Service, will conduct such further inquiry as that official deems appropriate. At the official's discretion, the inquiry may consist of:

(i) The securing of documentary evidence;

(ii) Personal interviews;

(iii) An informal hearing;

(iv) Any combination of paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(g) On the basis of the applicant's written and personal response, the factual basis for the proposed denial and the additional inquiry provided for, if such inquiry is conducted, a final decision will be expeditiously made by the Assistant Director-Protective Operations of the United States Secret Service in accordance with the standard set forth in ยง 409.1. If a final adverse decision is reached, the applicant will be notified of this final decision in writing. This notification will set forth, as precisely as possible and to the extent that security considerations permit, the factual basis for the denial in relation to the standard set forth in ยง 409.1. This notification will be sent by registered mail and will be signed by the Assistant Director-Protective Operations of the Secret Service.
