
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA) Penalties
###### ยง 501.701 Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 16 of the TWEA, as adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note), which provides that:

(1) Persons who willfully violate any provision of TWEA or any license, rule, or regulation issued thereunder, and persons who willfully violate, neglect, or refuse to comply with any order of the President issued in compliance with the provisions of TWEA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 or, if an individual, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.

(2) Any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with its tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, concerned in a violation of TWEA may upon conviction be forfeited to the United States Government.

(3) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose a civil penalty of not more than $105,083 per violation on any person who violates any license, order, or regulation issued under TWEA.

(4) Any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with its tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, that is the subject of a violation subject to a civil penalty issued pursuant to TWEA shall, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, be forfeited to the United States Government.

(b) The criminal penalties provided in TWEA are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571 which, when read in conjunction with section 16 of TWEA, provides that persons convicted of violating TWEA may be fined up to the greater of either $250,000 for individuals and $1,000,000 for organizations or twice the pecuniary gain or loss from the violation.

(c) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
