
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA) Penalties
###### ยง 501.707 Response to Prepenalty Notice.
####### Form and contents of response,In general.

(b)-(1)The response need not be in any particular form, but must be typewritten and contain the heading "Response to Prepenalty Notice" and the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number shown near the top of the Prepenalty Notice. It should be responsive to the allegations contained therein and set forth the nature of the respondent's admission of the violation, or defenses and claims for mitigation, if any.

(i) The response must admit or deny specifically each separate allegation of violation made in the Prepenalty Notice. If the respondent is without knowledge as to an allegation, the response shall so state, and such statement shall constitute a denial. Any allegation not specifically addressed in the response shall be deemed admitted.

(ii) The response must set forth any additional or new matter or arguments the respondent seeks, or shall seek, to use in support of all defenses or claims for mitigation. Any defense the respondent wishes to assert must be included in the response.

(iii) The response must accurately state (for each respondent, if applicable) the respondent's full name and address for future service, together with a current telephone and, if applicable, facsimile machine number. If respondent is represented, the representative's full name and address, together with telephone and facsimile numbers, may be provided instead of service information for the respondent. The respondent or respondent's representative of record is responsible for providing timely written notice to the Director of any subsequent changes in the information provided.
