
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA) Penalties
###### ยง 501.710 Settlement.
####### Waivers.

(5)(i) By submitting an offer of settlement, a respondent making the offer waives, subject to acceptance of the offer:

(A) All hearings pursuant to section 16 of the Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 16);

(B) The filing of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(C) Proceedings before, and a decision by, an Administrative Law Judge;

(D) All post-hearing procedures; and

(E) Judicial review by any court.

(ii) By submitting an offer of settlement the respondent further waives:

(A) Such provisions of this subpart or other requirements of law as may be construed to prevent any member of the Director's staff, or members of the Office of Chief Counsel or other counsel assigned by the General Counsel, from participating in or advising the Director as to any order, opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law to be entered pursuant to the offer; and

(B) Any right to claim bias or prejudgment by the Director based on the consideration of or discussions concerning settlement of all or any part of the proceeding.

(6) If the Director rejects the offer of settlement, the respondent shall be so notified in writing and the offer of settlement shall be deemed withdrawn. The rejected offer shall not constitute a part of the record in any proceeding against the respondent making the offer, provided, however, that rejection of an offer of settlement does not affect the continued validity of waivers pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section with respect to any discussions concerning the rejected offer of settlement.

(7) No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any administrative proceeding initiated by the Director.
