
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA) Penalties
###### ยง 501.727 Motion for summary disposition.
####### Decision on motion.

(b)The Administrative Law Judge may promptly decide the motion for summary disposition or may defer decision on the motion. The Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order granting a motion for summary disposition if the record shows there is no genuine issue with regard to any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to a summary disposition as a matter of law.

(c) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support its position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the moving party's arguments. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which such party contends a genuine dispute exists. The opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
