
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA) Penalties
###### ยง 501.743 Briefs filed with the Secretary's designee.
####### Briefing schedule order.

(a)If review of a determination is mandated by judicial order or whenever the Secretary's designee reviews a decision or ruling, the Secretary's designee shall, unless such review results in summary affirmance pursuant to ยง 501.742(b), issue a briefing schedule order directing the parties to file opening briefs and specifying particular issues, if any, as to which briefing should be limited or directed. Unless otherwise provided, opening briefs shall be filed not later than 40 days after the date of the briefing schedule order. Opposition briefs shall be filed not later than 30 days after the date opening briefs are due. Reply briefs shall be filed not later than 14 days after the date opposition briefs are due. No briefs in addition to those specified in the briefing schedule order may be filed without permission of the Secretary's designee. The briefing schedule order shall be issued not later than 21 days after the later of:

(1) The last day permitted for filing a brief in opposition to a petition for review pursuant to ยง 501.741(e); or

(2) Receipt by the Secretary's designee of the mandate of a court with respect to a judicial remand.
