
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Procedures
###### ยง 501.801 Licensing.
####### Information to be supplied.,https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov

(ii)The applicant must supply all information specified by relevant instructions (available on OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page at) and/or forms, and must fully disclose the names of all parties who are concerned with or interested in the proposed transaction. If the application is filed by an agent, the agent must disclose the name of his or her principal(s). Such documents as may be relevant shall be attached to each application as a part of such application, whether filed electronically or by mail, except that documents previously filed with OFAC may, where appropriate, be incorporated by reference in such application. Applicants may be required to furnish such further information as is deemed necessary to assist OFAC in making a determination. Any applicant or other party in interest desiring to present additional information may do so at any time before or after OFAC makes its decision with respect to the application. In unique circumstances, OFAC may determine that an oral presentation regarding a license application would assist in OFAC's review of the issues involved. Any requests to make such an oral presentation must be submitted in writing to the attention of the Director, but are rarely granted.
