
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Procedures
###### ยง 501.806 Procedures for unblocking funds believed to have been blocked due to mistaken identity.
####### OFACreport@treasury.gov.

(b) Requests to release funds which a party believes to have been blocked due to mistaken identity must be made in writing and addressed to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220, or sent by email to the Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division at

(c) The written request to release funds must include the name, address, telephone number, and (where available) fax number of the party seeking the release of the funds. For individuals, the inclusion of a social security number is voluntary but will facilitate resolution of the request. For corporations or other entities, the application should include its principal place of business, the state of incorporation or organization, and the name and telephone number of the appropriate person to contact regarding the application.

(d) A request to release funds should include the following information, where known, concerning the transaction:

(1) The name of the financial institution in which the funds are blocked;

(2) The amount blocked;

(3) The date of the blocking;

(4) The identity of the original remitter of the funds and any intermediary financial institutions;

(5) The intended beneficiary of the blocked transfer;

(6) A description of the underlying transaction including copies of related documents (e.g., invoices, bills of lading, promissory notes, etc.);

(7) The nature of the applicant's interest in the funds; and

(8) A statement of the reasons why the applicant believes the funds were blocked due to mistaken identity.

(e) Upon receipt of the materials required by paragraph (d) of this section, OFAC may request additional material from the applicant concerning the transaction pursuant to ยง 501.602.

(f) Following review of all applicable submissions, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will determine whether to release the funds. In the event the Director determines that the funds should be released, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will direct the financial institution to return the funds to the appropriate party.

(g) For purposes of this section, the term "financial institution" shall include a banking institution, depository institution or United States depository institution, domestic bank, financial institution or U.S. financial institution, as those terms are defined in the applicable part of this chapter.
