
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 501 - Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines.
###### Cooperation with OFAC:

G.the nature and extent of the Subject Person's cooperation with OFAC. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating cooperation with OFAC are:

1. Did the Subject Person voluntarily self-disclose the apparent violation to OFAC?

2. Did the Subject Person provide OFAC with all relevant information regarding an apparent violation (whether or not voluntarily self-disclosed)?

3. Did the Subject Person research and disclose to OFAC relevant information regarding any other apparent violations caused by the same course of conduct?

4. Was information provided voluntarily or in response to an administrative subpoena?

5. Did the Subject Person cooperate with, and promptly respond to, all requests for information?

6. Did the Subject Person enter into a statute of limitations tolling agreement, if requested by OFAC (particularly in situations where the apparent violations were not immediately notified to or discovered by OFAC, in particularly complex cases, and in cases in which the Subject Person has requested and received additional time to respond to a request for information from OFAC)? If so, the Subject Person's entering into a tolling agreement will be deemed a mitigating factor.
