
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 501 - Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines.
###### Pre-Penalty Notice.

1.If OFAC has reason to believe that a sanctions violation has occurred and believes that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, it will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. The amount of the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice will reflect OFAC's preliminary assessment of the appropriate penalty amount, based on information then in OFAC's possession. The amount of the final penalty may change as OFAC learns additional relevant information. If, after issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice, OFAC determines that a penalty in an amount that represents an increase of more than 10 percent from the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice is appropriate, or if OFAC intends to allege additional violations, it will issue a revised Pre-Penalty Notice setting forth the new proposed penalty amount and/or alleged violations.

a. In general, the Pre-Penalty Notice will set forth the following with respect to the specific violations alleged and the proposed penalties:

i. Description of the alleged violations, including the number of violations and their value, for which a penalty is being proposed;

ii. Identification of the regulatory or other provisions alleged to have been violated;

iii. Identification of the base category (defined below) according to which the proposed penalty amount was calculated and the General Factors that were most relevant to the determination of the proposed penalty amount;

iv. The maximum amount of the penalty to which the Subject Person could be subject under applicable law; and

v. The proposed penalty amount, determined in accordance with the provisions set forth in these Guidelines.

b. The Pre-Penalty Notice will also include information regarding how to respond to the Pre-Penalty Notice including:

i. A statement that the Subject Person may submit a written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice by a date certain addressing the alleged violation(s), the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in Section III of these Guidelines, and any other information or evidence that the Subject Person deems relevant to OFAC's consideration.

ii. A statement that a failure to respond to the Pre-Penalty Notice may result in the imposition of a civil monetary penalty.
