
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 501 - REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 501 - Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines.
###### Pre-Penalty Notice.

2.The penalty amount proposed in a Pre-Penalty Notice shall generally be calculated as follows, except that neither the base amount nor the proposed penalty will exceed the applicable statutory maximum amount:

i. In a non-egregious case, if the apparent violation is disclosed through a voluntary self-disclosure by the Subject Person, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be one-half of the transaction value, capped at a maximum base amount of $178,290 per violation, except where the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation is less than $356,579, in which case the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be capped at one-half the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation.

ii. In a non-egregious case, if the apparent violation comes to OFAC's attention by means other than a voluntary self-disclosure, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be the "applicable schedule amount," as defined above. For apparent violations where the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation is $356,579 or greater, the maximum base amount shall be capped at $356,579. For apparent violations where the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation is less than $356,579, the maximum base amount shall be capped at the statutory maximum penalty amount applicable to the apparent violation.

iii. In an egregious case, if the apparent violation is disclosed through a voluntary self-disclosure by a Subject Person, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be one-half of the applicable statutory maximum penalty applicable to the violation.

iv. In an egregious case, if the apparent violation comes to OFAC's attention by means other than a voluntary self-disclosure, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be the applicable statutory maximum penalty amount applicable to the violation.

v. The applicable statutory maximum civil penalty per violation for each statute enforced by OFAC is as follows: International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA)-greater of $356,579 or twice the amount of the underlying transaction; Trading with the Enemy Act (TWEA)- $105,083; Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (FNKDA)- $1,771,754; Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA)-greater of $94,127 or twice the amount of which a financial institution was required to retain possession or control; and Clean Diamond Trade Act (CDTA)-$16,108. The civil penalty amounts authorized under these statutes are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).

v. The following matrix represents the base amount of the proposed civil penalty for each category of violation:

The base amount of the proposed civil penalty may be adjusted to reflect applicable General Factors for Administrative Action set forth in Section III of these Guidelines. Each factor may be considered mitigating or aggravating, resulting in a lower or higher proposed penalty amount. As a general matter, in those cases where the following General Factors are present, OFAC will adjust the base proposed penalty amount in the following manner:

i. In cases involving substantial cooperation with OFAC but no voluntary self-disclosure as defined herein, including cases in which an apparent violation is reported to OFAC by a third party but the Subject Person provides substantial additional information regarding the apparent violation and/or other related violations, the base penalty amount generally will be reduced between 25 and 40 percent. Substantial cooperation in cases involving voluntary self-disclosure may also be considered as a further mitigating factor.

ii. In cases involving a Subject Person's first violation, the base penalty amount generally will be reduced up to 25 percent. An apparent violation generally will be considered a "first violation" if the Subject Person has not received a penalty notice or Finding of Violation from OFAC in the five years preceding the date of the transaction giving rise to the apparent violation. A group of substantially similar apparent violations addressed in a single Pre-Penalty Notice shall be considered as a single violation for purposes of this subsection. In those cases where a prior penalty notice or Finding of Violation within the preceding five years involved conduct of a substantially different nature from the apparent violation at issue, OFAC may consider the apparent violation at issue a "first violation." In determining the extent of any mitigation for a first violation, OFAC may consider any prior OFAC enforcement action taken with respect to the Subject Person, including any cautionary, warning or evaluative letters issued, or any civil monetary settlements entered into with OFAC.

In all cases, the proposed penalty amount will not exceed the applicable statutory maximum.

In cases involving a large number of apparent violations, where the transaction value of all apparent violations is either unknown or would require a disproportionate allocation of resources to determine, OFAC may estimate or extrapolate the transaction value of the total universe of apparent violations in determining the amount of any proposed civil monetary penalty.
