
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 515 - CUBAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
###### ยง 515.505 Certain Cuban nationals unblocked.
####### Required documentation.

(c)In determining whether an individual national of Cuba qualifies as an unblocked national under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction must obtain evidence demonstrating that the individual satisfies the requirements of that paragraph. Such evidence may include copies of documents issued by government authorities demonstrating citizenship or lawful permanent residence in a third country. These could include, depending on the information provided in the document in question, a passport, voter registration card, permanent resident alien card, national identity card, or other similar documents. Where such documents are unavailable, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may also rely on evidence that the individual has been resident for the past two years without interruption in a single country outside of Cuba, or a sworn statement or other evidence that the individual does not intend to, or would not be welcome to, return to Cuba.

(d) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the term "lawfully present and intending to lawfully remain in the United States on a permanent basis" includes an individual with a pending application for asylum or who has been paroled into the United States under Cuban Parole or Cuban Medical designations. It does not include anyone present in the United States in a non-immigrant status.
