
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 535 - IRANIAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Prohibitions
###### § 535.218 Prohibitions and nullifications with respect to property described in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215 and standby letters of credit.

(a) All licenses and authorizations for acquiring or exercising any right, power or privilege, by court order, attachment, or otherwise, including the license contained in § 535.504, with respect to the property described in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215 are revoked and withdrawn.

(b) All rights, powers and privileges relating to the property described in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215 and which derive from any attachment, injunction, other like proceedings or process, or other action in any litigation after November 14, 1979, at 8:10 a.m., e.s.t., including those derived from § 535.504, other than rights, powers and privileges of the Government of Iran and its agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, whether acquired by court order or otherwise, are nullified, and all persons claiming any such right, power or privilege are hereafter barred from exercising the same.

(c) All persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are prohibited from acquiring or exercising any right, power or privilege, whether by court order or otherwise, with respect to property (and any income earned thereon) referred to in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215.

(d) The prohibitions contained in paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities.

(e) Paragraph (a) of this section does not revoke or withdraw specific licenses authorizing the operation of blocked accounts which were issued prior to January 19, 1981, and which do not relate to litigation. Such licenses shall be deemed to be revoked as of May 31, 1981, unless extended by general or specific license issued subsequent to February 26, 1981.

(f) The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall apply to contested and contingent liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, including debts.

(g) All existing attachments on standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations and on substitute blocked accounts established under § 535.568 relating to standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations are nullified and all future attachments on them are hereafter prohibited. All rights, powers and privileges relating to such attachments are nullified and all persons hereafter are barred from asserting or exercising any rights, powers or privileges derived therefrom.
