
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 535 - IRANIAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - General Definitions
###### ยง 535.333 Properties.

(a) The term properties as used in ยง 535.215 means all uncontested and non-contingent liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, including debts. It does not include bank deposits or funds and securities. It also does not include obligations under standby letters of credit or similar instruments in the nature of performance bonds, including accounts established pursuant to ยง 535.568.

(b) Properties do not cease to fall within the definition in paragraph (a), above, merely due to the existence of unpaid obligations, charges or fees relating to such properties, or undischarged liens against such properties.

(c) Liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities may be considered contested only if the holder thereof reasonably believes that Iran does not have title or has only partial title to the asset. After October 23, 2001, such a belief may be considered reasonable only if it is based upon a bona fide opinion, in writing, of an attorney licensed to practice within the United States stating that Iran does not have title or has only partial title to the asset. For purposes of this paragraph, the term holder shall include any person who possesses the property, or who, although not in physical possession of the property, has, by contract or otherwise, control over a third party who does in fact have physical possession of the property. A person is not a holder by virtue of being the beneficiary of an attachment, injunction or similar order.

(d) Liabilities and property interests shall not be deemed to be contested solely because they are subject to an attachment, injunction, or other similar order.
