
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 535 - IRANIAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Interpretations
###### § 535.440 Commercially reasonable interest rates.

(a) For purposes of §§ 535.212 and 535.213, what is meant by "commercially reasonable rates" depends on the particular circumstances. In the case of time or savings deposits, the "commercially reasonable rate" is that rate provided for by the deposit agreement or applicable law. With respect to other obligations where the rate remains to be determined, it is presently expected that the "commercially reasonable rate" will be the rate agreed upon by the bank and Iran. However, where a deposit has in fact operated as a demand account under Treasury license, it would be appropriate to treat the deposit for purposes of §§ 535.212 and 535.213 as a non-interest bearing account. Furthermore, in the event that the Iran-U.S Claims Tribunal (the "Tribunal") determines that interest additional to that agreed upon between the bank and Iran, or compensation or damages in lieu of interest, is due Iran, then that amount determined by the Tribunal to be owing to Iran shall be transferred as, or as part of, the interest at "commercially reasonable rates" required to be transferred pursuant to §§ 535.212 and 535.213, regardless of any settlement between the bank and Iran or any release or discharge that Iran may have given the bank.

(b) The contingent interest of Iran in any liability for further or additional interest, or compensation or damages in lieu of interest, that may be claimed in, and determined by the Tribunal, constitutes an interest of Iran in property for purposes of this part, and no agreement between Iran and any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is effective to extinguish such Iranian interest in property unless so specifically licensed by the Treasury Department.

(c) For deposits held as time deposits, no penalty shall be imposed for early withdrawal. (In this connection, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined that application of the penalty for early withdrawal of time deposits transferred before maturity, pursuant to § 535.213 is not required.)
