
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 535 - IRANIAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Interpretations
###### ยง 535.441 Settlement Agreement regarding small claims.

(a) Award No. 483 of June 22, 1990 of the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal, approving and giving effect to the Settlement Agreement in Claims of Less Than $250,000, Case No. 86 and Case No. B38, dated May 13, 1990 (the "Settlement Agreement"), constitutes a determination by the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal of all claims encompassed therein within the meaning of ยง 535.222(f) of this part. In accordance with ยง 535.222(f), upon payment from the Security Account to the United States, the Settlement Agreement shall operate as a final resolution and discharge of all claims encompassed by the Settlement Agreement for all purposes. All such claims shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission on the terms established in the Settlement Agreement and by the provisions of Public Law 99-93, Title V, Aug. 16, 1985, 99 Stat. 437, applicable to en bloc settlements of claims of U.S. nationals against Iran.

(b) Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the private claims subject to that agreement and this part are "* * * claims of less than $250,000 each, which have been filed with the Tribunal by the United States on behalf of U.S. nationals, which claims are included in Cases Nos. 10001 through 12785, and which are still pending, * * * ," and "* * * claims of U.S. nationals for less than $250,000 which have been submitted to the United States Department of State but were not timely filed with the Tribunal, as well as claims of U.S. nationals for less than $250,000 which have been either withdrawn by the Claimants or dismissed by the Tribunal for lack of jurisdiction, * * * ." Settlement Agreement, Art. I(A).
