
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 535 - IRANIAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy
###### ยง 535.568 Certain standby letters of credit and performance bonds.
####### standby letter of credit

(g) For the purposes of this section, the termshall mean a letter of credit securing performance of, or repayment of, any advance payments of deposits, under a contract with Iran or an Iranian entity, or any similar obligation in the nature of a performance bond.

(h) The regulations do not authorize any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to reimburse a non-U.S. bank for payment to Iran or an Iranian entity under a standby letter of credit, except by payment into a blocked account in accordance with ยง 535.508 or paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.

(i) A person receiving a specific license under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall certify to the Office of Foreign Assets Control within five business days after receipt of that license that it has established the blocked account on its books as provided for in those paragraphs. However, in appropriate cases, this time may be extended upon application to the Office of Foreign Assets Control when the account party has filed a petition with an appropriate court seeking a judicial order barring payment by the issuing or confirming bank.

(j) The extension or renewal of a standby letter of credit is authorized.

(k) All specific licenses previously issued under this section to account parties to standby letters of credit are revoked, effective February 28, 1991, unless the license holder submits documentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control establishing that the specific license pertains to a standby letter of credit obligation that (1) is at issue in any claim brought before the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal ("Tribunal"), (2) is or was at issue in any claim that the Tribunal resolves, or has resolved, on the merits in favor of the account party, or (3) was at issue in a matter that was settled by the parties. The documentation required for such a showing may include such items as a copy of a Tribunal Award, a copy of a signed settlement agreement, or copies of cover pages of recent filings in pending Tribunal cases.
