
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 1 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1.7 Fees.
###### Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.

(e)When a component determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, the component shall notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the component shall advise the requester accordingly. In cases in which a requester has been notified that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee. Such a commitment must be made by the requester in writing, must indicate a given dollar amount the requester is willing to pay, and must be received by the component within 30 calendar days from the date of notification of the fee estimate. If a commitment is not received within this period, the requester shall be notified, in writing, that the request shall be closed. Components will inform the requester of their right to seek assistance from the appropriate component FOIA Public Liaison or other FOIA professional to assist the requester in reformulating request in an effort to reduce fees. Components are not required to accept payments in installments. If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the component estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the component will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The Component will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
