
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 560 - IRANIAN TRANSACTIONS AND SANCTIONS REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Penalties
###### ยง 560.701 Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) ("IEEPA"), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.

(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.

(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $356,579 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.

(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.

(4) As set forth in section 218 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on a United States person if an entity owned or controlled by the United States person and established or maintained outside the United States violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibition set forth in ยง 560.215 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition. The penalties set forth in this paragraph shall not apply with respect to a transaction described in ยง 560.215 by an entity owned or controlled by the United States person and established or maintained outside the United States if the United States person divests or terminates its business with the entity not later than February 6, 2013, such that the U.S. person no longer owns or controls the entity, as defined in ยง 560.215(b)(1).
