
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 561 - IRANIAN FINANCIAL SANCTIONS REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Penalties
###### § 561.701 Penalties.
####### Civil Penalties.

(a)(1) As set forth in section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551) ("CISADA") and section 1245(g)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) ("2012 NDAA"), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA") (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.201 or § 561.203 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibitions.

(2) As set forth in section 104(d) of CISADA, a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of IEEPA may be imposed on a U.S. financial institution if:

(i) A person owned or controlled by the U.S. financial institution violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibition in § 561.202 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition; and

(ii) The U.S. financial institution knew or should have known that the person violated, attempted to violate, conspired to violate, or caused a violation of such prohibition.

(3) Pursuant to section 206 of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury under IEEPA, a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.204 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition.

(4) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $356,579 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
