
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 13 - PROCEDURES FOR PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN PROTECTING FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS
#### § 13.3 Eligibility to receive protection or reimbursement.

(a) Protection, as determined by the Assistant Secretary, will be provided by the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, pursuant to section 202 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended by Pub. L. 94-196, only to foreign diplomatic missions located in metropolitan areas (other than the District of Columbia) where there are located twenty or more such missions, as determined by the Secretary of State, which are headed by full time officers. According to present State Department figures, the following metropolitan areas have 20 or more such foreign diplomatic missions: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, New Orleans and San Francisco. The protection provided by State or local governments rather than the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division will be reimbursed pursuant to section 208(a) of Title 3, U.S. Code and §§ 13.6, 13.7 and 13.8 of this part.

(b) Protection or reimbursement will be provided for the metropolitan areas described in paragraph (a) of this section only if:

(1) The affected metropolitan area requests such protection or reimbursement;

(2) The Assistant Secretary determines that an extraordinary protective need exists; and

(3) The extraordinary need arises in association with a visit to or occurs at or, pursuant to § 13.6, in the vicinity of: (i) A permanent mission to an international organization of which the United States is a member, (ii) an observer mission invited to participate in the work of an international organization of which the United States is a member, or (iii) in the case of a visit by a foreign official or dignitary to participate in an activity of an international organization of which the United States is a member, a foreign diplomatic mission, including a consular office of the same country as the visitor.

(c) Protection (or reimbursement) may be extended at places of temporary domicile in connection with a visit under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Where an extraordinary protective need exists, protection (or reimbursement) may be extended to missions as described in §§ 13.3(b)(3) (i) and (ii) whether or not associated with a visit by a foreign dignitary.
