
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 13 - PROCEDURES FOR PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN PROTECTING FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS
#### § 13.4 Requests for protection and advance notices of reimbursement requests.

(a) In cases where they believe that an extraordinary protective need exists, the State or local governments may request that protection be provided by the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division; or they may give advance notice of their intention to provide, on a reimbursable basis, all or part of the protection themselves.

(1) Requests for protection or advance notices of reimbursement requests shall be made to: Assistant Secretary (Enforcement and Operations), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220. Each government requesting the protection authorized pursuant to section 202 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended by Pub. L. 94-196, or which intends to seek reimbursement pursuant to section 208(a) of Title 3, U.S. Code and §§ 13.6 and 13.7 of this part, shall submit an application describing the extraordinary protective need. Applications made pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary 14 days before the extraordinary protective need arises. In association with a visit, the application shall include the name and title of the visiting foreign official or dignitary, the country he represents, and the name and location of the international organization or mission he will be visting. The application shall also include, if available, the temporary domicile of the visiting official or dignitary and his schedule, including dates and times of arrival and departure from the United States. If the extraordinary protective need occurs at a permanent mission to an international organization of which the United States is a member or an observer mission invited to participate in the work of such organization, or if another foreign diplomatic mission of the country qualifies under § 13.3 (b) or (d), the application shall include the name and location of the mission.

(b) State and local governments shall also indicate on the application whether they are requesting the use of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division or whether they are giving advance notice of their intention to provide, on a reimbursable basis, all or part of the protection themselves. In order to assist the Assistant Secretary in determining whether to utilize the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division to meet all or part of the extraordinary protective need, or to utilize, with their consent, the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the State or local government, or both, the application must include an estimate of the approximate number of personnel by grade and rank, the services, equipment, and facilities required, along with an estimate of the cost of such personnel, services, equipment and facilities. This application must be submitted in a format consistent with that illustrated in a appendix I of this part.

(1) Upon receipt of a request for protection pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section and for the purposes of reimbursement pursuant to §§ 13.6 and 13.7, the Assistant Secretary will determine whether an extraordinary protective need exists and whether the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division will be used for all, part or none of the protection. In making determinations, the Assistant Secretary may consult with appropriate Federal, State and local government agencies.
