
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of the Treasury
### PART 13 - PROCEDURES FOR PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN PROTECTING FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS
#### Appendix I to Part 13 - Form of Request for Assistance

I hereby request assistance from the Department of the Treasury pursuant to Section 202 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended by Pub. L. 94-196. This assistance is needed to enable the affected metropolitan area of ______ to meet an extraordinary protective need, which is expected to arise on ______ (date).

The nature of the extraordinary protective need prompting this request is as follows:

(If in association with a visit, include the name and title of the visiting foreign official or dignitary, the country represented and the name and location of the international organization involved and/or mission to be visited. The temporary domicile of the visiting official or dignitary and his schedule, including dates and times of arrival and departure from the United States, if available, must also be included. If the extraordinary protective need occurs at or, pursuant to ยง 13.6 of 31 CFR part 13, in the vicinity of, a permanent mission to an international organization of which the United States is a member or at an observer mission invited to participate in the work of the organization, the application shall include the name and location of the mission. If the extraordinary protective need occurs at a foreign diplomatic mission, including a consular office, in conjunction with a qualifying visit by a foreign official or dignitary of the same country as that mission, the application shall include the name and location of the mission or office. If, pursuant to ยง 13.8, the visiting foreign official is to travel by motorcade and/or visit locations other than his foreign mission or temporary domicile, the application shall include a description of the anticipated motorcade routes and all stops on the routes as well as the name (or description) and location of any other places to be visited.

The ______ (Government entity) ______ (is or is not) ______ prepared to provide ______ (all or a portion of) the protection required to meet this need. Attached is an estimate of the appropriate number of personnel, by grade and rank, and the specific services, equipment and facilities which will be required to meet this extraordinary protective need, along with an estimate of the cost of such personnel, services, equipment, and facilities.
