
# Title 31 - Money and Finance: Treasury
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
### Chapter V - Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury
#### PART 589 - UKRAINE-/RUSSIA-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy
###### ยง 589.513 Exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, and replacement parts to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
####### et seq.

(e) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device controlled on the United States Munitions List established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778); controlled on any control list established under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or any successor statute (50 U.S.C. App. 2401); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.

(f) Nothing in this section affects prohibitions on the sale or supply of U.S. technology or software used to manufacture agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices, such as technology to design or produce biotechnological items or medical devices.

(g) Nothing in this section affects U.S. nonproliferation export controls, including the end-user and end-use controls maintained under Part 744 of the EAR, 15 CFR part 744.

(h) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction or dealing with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 536.201, 544.201, 594.201, 597.201, or 598.202, or with any foreign organization, group, or person subject to any restriction for its involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation, or involving property blocked pursuant to this chapter or any other activity prohibited by this chapter not otherwise authorized in or pursuant to this part.

(i) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device that is not designated as EAR99 or, in the case of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.

(j) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and medical supplies are defined below.
