
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 210 - SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
##### ยง 210.2 Application for temporary resident status.
###### Numerical limitations.

(3)The numerical limitations of sections 201 and 202 of the Act do not apply to the adjustment of aliens to lawful temporary or permanent resident status under section 210 of the Act. No more than 350,000 aliens may be granted temporary resident status in the Group 1 classification. If more than 350,000 aliens are determined to be eligible for Group 1 classification, the first 350,000 applicants (in chronological order by date the application is filed at a legalization or overseas processing office) whose applications are approved for Group 1 status shall be accorded that classification. Aliens admitted to the United States under the transitional admission standard placed in effect between July 1, 1987, and November 1, 1987, and under the preliminary application standard at ยง 210.2(c)(4) who claim eligibility for Group 1 classification shall be registered as applicants for that classification on the date of submission to a legalization office of a complete application as defined in ยง 210.1(c) of this part. Other applicants who may be eligible for Group 1 classification shall be classified as Group 2 aliens. There is no limitation on the number of aliens whose resident status may be adjusted from temporary to permanent in Group 2 classification.
