
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 210 - SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
##### ยง 210.2 Application for temporary resident status.
###### Procedures.

(ii)The fee for any application under this paragraph including applications for waivers of grounds of excludability, must be submitted in United States currency. Application fees shall not be collected until the examining immigration officer has determined that the applicant has presented a preliminary application and is admissible to the United States including, if required, approval of an application for waiver of grounds of excludability as provided in this paragraph. Applicants at designated ports of entry must present proof of identity in the form of a valid passport, a "cartilla" (Mexican military service registration booklet), a Form 13 ("Forma trece"-Mexican lieu passport identity document), or a certified copy of a birth certificate accompanied by additional evidence of identity bearing a photograph and/or fingerprint of the applicant. Upon a determination by an immigration officer at a designated port of entry that an applicant has presented a preliminary application, the applicant shall be admitted to the United States as an applicant for special agricultural worker status. All preliminary applicants shall be considered as prospective applicants for the Group 2 classification. However, such applicants may later submit a complete application for either the Group 1 or Group 2 classification to a legalization office. Preliminary applicants are not required to pay the application fee a second time when submitting the complete application to a legalization office.
