
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 210 - SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
##### ยง 210.3 Eligibility.
###### Documents.

(c)A complete application for adjustment of status must be accompanied by proof of identity, evidence of qualifying employment, evidence of residence and such evidence of admissibility or eligibility as may be requested by the examining immigration officer in accordance with requirements specified in this part. At the time of filing, certified copies of documents may be submitted in lieu of originals. However, at the time of the interview, wherever possible, the original documents must be presented except for the following: Official government records; employment or employment related records maintained by employers, unions, or collective bargaining organizations; medical records; school records maintained by a school or school board; or other records maintained by a party other than the applicant. Copies of records maintained by parties other than the applicant which are submitted in evidence must be certified as true and correct by such parties and must bear their seal or signature or the signature and title of persons authorized to act in their behalf. If at the time of the interview the return of original documents is desired by the applicant, they must be accompanied by notarized copies or copies certified true and correct by a qualified designated entity or by the alien's representative in the format prescribed in ยง 204.2(j)(1) or (2) of this chapter. At the discretion of the district director or consular officer, original documents, even if accompanied by certified copies, may be temporarily retained for further examination.
