
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 210 - SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
##### ยง 210.3 Eligibility.
###### Proof of employment.

(3)The applicant may establish qualifying employment through government employment records, or records maintained by agricultural producers, farm labor contractors, collective bargaining organizations and other groups or organizations which maintain records of employment, or such other evidence as worker identification issued by employers or collective bargaining organizations, union membership cards or other union records such as dues receipts or records of the applicant's involvement or that of his or her immediate family with organizations providing services to farmworkers, or work records such as pay stubs, piece work receipts, W-2 Forms or certification of the filing of Federal income tax returns on IRS Form 6166, or state verification of the filing of state income tax returns. Affidavits may be submitted under oath, by agricultural producers, foremen, farm labor contractors, union officials, fellow employees, or other persons with specific knowledge of the applicant's employment. The affiant must be identified by name and address; the name of the applicant and the relationship of the affiant to the applicant must be stated; and the source of the information in the affidavit (e.g. personal knowledge, reliance on information provided by others, etc.) must be indicated. The affidavit must also provide information regarding the crop and the type of work performed by the applicant and the period during which such work was performed. The affiant must provide a certified copy of corroborating records or state the affiant's willingness to personally verify the information provided. The weight and probative value of any affidavit accepted will be determined on the basis of the substance of the affidavit and any documents which may be affixed thereto which may corroborate the information provided.
