
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 210 - SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
##### ยง 210.3 Eligibility.
###### Waiver of grounds for exclusion.

(2)Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the Service may waive any other provision of section 212(a) of the Act only in the case of individual aliens for humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is in the public interest. If an alien is excludable on grounds which may be waived as set forth in this paragraph, he or she shall be advised of the procedures for applying for a waiver of grounds of excludability on Form I-690. When an application for waiver of grounds of excludability is submitted in conjunction with an application for temporary residence under this section, it shall be accepted for processing at the legalization office, overseas processing office, or designated port of entry. If an application for waiver of grounds of excludability is submitted after the alien's preliminary interview at the legalization office it shall be forwarded to the appropriate regional processing facility. All applications for waivers of grounds of excludability must be accompanied by the correct fee in the exact amount. All fees for applications filed in the United States other than those within the provisions of ยง 210.2(c)(4) must be in the form of a money order, cashier's check, or bank check. No personal checks or currency will be accepted. Fees for waiver applications filed at the designated port of entry under the preliminary application standard must be submitted in United States currency. Fees will not be waived or refunded under any circumstances. Generally, an application for waiver of grounds of excludability under this part submitted at a legalization office or overseas processing office will be approved or denied by the director of the regional processing facility in whose jurisdiction the applicant's application for adjustment of status was filed. However, in cases involving clear statutory ineligibility or admitted fraud, such application for a waiver may be denied by the district director in whose jurisdiction the application is filed; in cases filed at overseas processing offices, such application for a waiver may be denied by a consular officer; or, in cases returned to a legalization office for reinterview, such application may be approved at the discretion of the district director. Waiver applications filed at the port of entry under the preliminary application standard will be approved or denied by the district director having jurisdiction over the port of entry. The applicant shall be notified of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reason(s) therefor. The applicant may appeal the decision within 30 days after the service of the notice pursuant to the provisions of ยง 103.3(a)(2) of this chapter.
