
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 210 - SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
##### ยง 210.4 Status and benefits.
###### Procedure.

(3)(i) Termination of an alien's status under paragraph (d)(2) of this section will be made only on notice to the alien sent by certified mail directed to his or her last known address, and to his or her representative. The alien must be given an opportunity to offer evidence in opposition to the grounds alleged for termination of his or her status. Evidence in opposition must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the service of the Notice of Intent to Terminate. If the alien's status is terminated, the director of the regional processing facility shall notify the alien of the decision and the reasons for the termination, and further notify the alien that any Service Form I-94 (see ยง 1.4), Arrival-Departure Record or other official Service document issued to the alien authorizing employment and/or travel abroad, or any Form I-688, Temporary Resident Card previously issued to the alien will be declared void by the director of the regional processing facility within thirty (30) days if no appeal of the termination decision is filed within that period. The alien may appeal the decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) using Form I-694. Any appeal with the required fee shall be filed with the regional processing facility within thirty (30) days after the service of the notice of termination. If no appeal is filed within that period, the Forms I-94, I-688 or other official Service document shall be deemed void, and must be surrendered without delay to an immigration officer or to the issuing office of the Service.

(ii) Termination proceedings must be commenced before the alien becomes eligible for adjustment of status under ยง 210.5 of this part. The timely commencement of termination proceedings will preclude the alien from becoming a lawful permanent resident until a final determination is made in the proceedings, including any appeal.
