
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 212.3 Application for the exercise of discretion under section 212(c).
###### Filing or renewal of applications before an Immigration Judge.

(e)(1) An application for the exercise of discretion under section 212(c) of the Act may be renewed or submitted in proceedings before an Immigration Judge under sections 235, 236, or 242 of the Act, and under this chapter. Such application shall be adjudicated by the Immigration Judge, without regard to whether the applicant previously has made application to the district director.

(2) The Immigration Judge may grant or deny an application for advance permission to return to an unrelinquished domicile under section 212(c) of the Act, in the exercise of discretion, unless otherwise prohibited by paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) An alien otherwise entitled to appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals may appeal the denial by the Immigration Judge of this application in accordance with the provisions of ยง 3.36 of this chapter.

(f) Limitations on discretion to grant an application under section 212(c) of the Act. An application for advance permission to enter under section 212 of the Act shall be denied if:

(1) The alien has not been lawfully admitted for permanent residence;

(2) The alien has not maintained lawful domicile in the United States, as either a lawful permanent resident or a lawful temporary resident pursuant to section 245A or section 210 of the Act, for at least seven consecutive years immediately preceding the filing of the application;

(3) The alien is subject to exclusion from the United States under paragraphs (3)(A), (3)(B), (3)(C), or (3)(E) of section 212(a) of the Act;

(4) The alien has been convicted of an aggravated felony, as defined by section 101(a)(43) of the Act, and has served a term of imprisonment of at least five years for such conviction; or

(5) The alien applies for relief under section 212(c) within five years of the barring act as enumerated in one or more sections of section 242B(e) (1) through (4) of the Act.
