
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 212.4 Applications for the exercise of discretion under section 212(d)(1) and 212(d)(3).
###### Grounds of removal.

(2)Nothing shall prohibit the Service from removing from the United States an alien classified pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act for conduct committed after the alien has been admitted to the United States as an S nonimmigrant, or after the alien's change to S classification, or for conduct or a condition undisclosed to the Attorney General prior to the alien's admission in, or change to, S classification, unless such conduct or condition is waived prior to admission and classification. In the event USCIS decides to remove an S nonimmigrant from the United States, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to remove.
