
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 212.7 Waiver of certain grounds of inadmissibility.
###### Waivers under Pub. L. 103-416 based on a request by a State Department of Public Health (or equivalent).

(9)In accordance with section 220 of Pub. L. 103-416, an alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, or who acquired status under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act after admission to the United States, to participate in an exchange program of graduate medical education or training (as of January 9, 1977), may apply for a waiver of the 2-year home country residence and physical presence requirement (the "2-year requirement") under section 212(e)(iii) of the Act based on a request by a State Department of Public Health, or its equivalent. To initiate the application for a waiver under Pub. L. 103-416, the Department of Public Health, or its equivalent, or the State in which the foreign medical graduate seeks to practice medicine, must request the Director of USIA to recommend a waiver to the Service. The waiver may be granted only if the Director of USIA provides the Service with a favorable waiver recommendation. Only the Service, however, may grant or deny the waiver application. If granted, such a waiver shall be subject to the terms and conditions imposed under section 214(l) of the Act (as redesignated by section 671(a)(3)(A) of Pub. L. 104-208). Although the alien is not required to submit a separate waiver application to the Service, the burden rests on the alien to establish eligibility for the waiver. If the Service approves a waiver request made under Pub. L. 103-416, the foreign medical graduate (and accompanying dependents) may apply for change of nonimmigrant status, from J-1 to H-1B and, in the case of dependents of such a foreign medical graduate, from J-2 to H-4. Aliens receiving waivers under section 220 of Pub. L. 103-416 are subject, in all cases, to the provisions of section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act.
