
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 212.15 Certificates for foreign health care workers.
###### English language requirements.

(g)(1) With the exception of those aliens described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, every alien must meet certain English language requirements in order to obtain a certificate. The Secretary of HHS has sole authority to set standards for these English language requirements, and has determined that an alien must have a passing score on one of the three tests listed in paragraph (g)(3) of this section before he or she can be granted a certificate. HHS will notify The Department of Homeland Security of additions or deletions to this list, and The Department of Homeland Security will publish such changes in the

(2) The following aliens are exempt from the English language requirements:

(i) Alien nurses who are presenting a certified statement under section 212(r) of the Act; and

(ii) Aliens who have graduated from a college, university, or professional training school located in Australia, Canada (except Quebec), Ireland, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, or the United States.

(3) The following English testing services have been approved by the Secretary of HHS:

(i) Educational Testing Service (ETS).

(ii) Test of English in International Communication (TOEIC) Service International.

(iii) International English Language Testing System (IELTS).

(4) Passing English test scores for various occupations.
