
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 103 - IMMIGRATION BENEFIT REQUESTS; USCIS FILING REQUIREMENTS; BIOMETRIC REQUIREMENTS; AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
##### Subpart A - Applying for Benefits, Surety Bonds, Fees
###### ยง 103.3 Denials, appeals, and precedent decisions.
####### Denials and appeal of Replenishment Agricultural Worker petitions and waivers and termination of lawful temporary resident status under section 210A.

(4)(i) Whenever a petition for Replenishment Agricultural Worker status, or a request for a waiver incident to such filing, is denied in accordance with the provisions of part 210a of this title, the alien shall be given written notice setting forth the specific reasons for the denial on Form I-692, Notice of Denial. Form I-692 shall also contain advice to the alien that he or she may appeal the decision and that such appeal must be taken within thirty (30) days after service of the notification of decision accompanied by any additional new evidence, and a supporting brief if desired. The Form I-692 shall additionally provide a notice to the alien that if he or she fails to file an appeal from the decision, the Form I-692 shall serve as a final notice of ineligibility.

(ii) Form I-694, Notice of Appeal, in triplicate, shall be used to file the appeal, and must be accompanied by the appropriate fee. Form I-694 shall be furnished with the notice of denial at the time of service on the alien.

(iii) Upon receipt of an appeal, the administrative record will be forwarded to the Administrative Appeals Unit as provided by ยง 103.1(f)(2) of this part for review and decision. The decision on the appeal shall be in writing, and if the appeal is dismissed, shall include a final notice of ineligibility. A copy of the decision shall be served upon the petitioner and his or her attorney or representative of record. No further administrative appeal shall lie from this decision, nor may the petition be filed or reopened before an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals during exclusion or deportation proceedings.

(iv) Any appeal which is filed that: Fails to state the reason for the appeal; is filed solely on the basis of a denial for failure to file the petition for adjustment of status under part 210a of this title in a timely manner; or is patently frivolous, will be summarily dismissed. An appeal received after the thirty (30) day period has tolled will not be accepted for processing.
