
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 213a - AFFIDAVITS OF SUPPORT ON BEHALF OF IMMIGRANTS
##### ยง 213a.2 Use of affidavit of support.
###### Joint sponsor.

(C)A joint sponsor must execute a separate affidavit of support on behalf of the intending immigrant(s) and be willing to accept joint and several liabilities with the sponsor or substitute sponsor. A joint sponsor must meet all the eligibility requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that the joint sponsor is not required to file a visa petition on behalf of the intending immigrant. The joint sponsor must demonstrate his or her ability to support the intending immigrant in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A joint sponsor's household income must meet or exceed the income requirement in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section unless the joint sponsor can demonstrate significant assets as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section. The joint sponsor's household income must equal at least 125 percent of the Poverty Guidelines for the joint sponsor's household size, unless the joint sponsor is on active duty in the Armed Forces and the intending immigrant is the joint sponsor's spouse or child, in which case the joint sponsor's household income is sufficient if it equals at least 100 percent of the Poverty Guidelines for the joint sponsor's household size. An intending immigrant may not have more than one joint sponsor, but, if the joint sponsor's household income is not sufficient to meet the income requirement with respect to the principal intending immigrant, any spouse and all the children who, under section 203(d) of the Act, seek to accompany the principal intending immigrant, then the joint sponsor may specify on the affidavit that it is submitted only on behalf of the principal intending immigrant and those accompanying family members specifically listed on the affidavit. The remaining accompanying family members will then be inadmissible under section 212(a)(4) of the Act unless a second joint sponsor submits an affidavit(s) on behalf of all the remaining family members who seek to accompany the principal intending immigrant and who are not included in the first joint sponsor's affidavit. There may not be more than two joint sponsors for the family group consisting of the principal intending immigrant and the accompanying spouse and children.
