
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 213a - AFFIDAVITS OF SUPPORT ON BEHALF OF IMMIGRANTS
##### ยง 213a.2 Use of affidavit of support.
###### Aliens who accompany or follow-to-join a principal intending immigrant.

(g)(1) To avoid inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, an alien who applies for an immigrant visa, admission, or adjustment of status as an alien who is accompanying, as defined in 22 CFR 40.1, a principal intending immigrant must submit clear and true photocopies of any relevant affidavit(s) and attachments filed on behalf of the principal intending immigrant.

(2)(i) To avoid inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, an alien who applies for an immigrant visa, admission, or adjustment of status as an alien who is following-to-join a principal intending immigrant must submit a new affidavit(s) of support, together with all documents or other evidence necessary to prove that the new affidavits comply with the requirements of section 213A of the Act and 8 CFR part 213a.

(ii) When paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section requires the filing of a new affidavit for an alien who seeks to follow-to-join a principal sponsored immigrant, the same sponsor who filed the visa petition and affidavit of support for the principal sponsored immigrant must file the new affidavit on behalf of the alien seeking to follow-to-join. If that person has died, then the alien seeking to follow-to-join is inadmissible unless a substitute sponsor, as defined by 8 CFR 213a.1, signs a new affidavit that meets the requirements of this section. Persons other than the person or persons who signed the original joint affidavits on behalf of the principal sponsored immigrant may sign a new joint affidavit on behalf of an alien who seeks to follow-to-join a principal sponsored immigrant.

(iii) If a joint sponsor is needed in the case of an alien who seeks to follow-to-join a principal sponsored immigrant, and the principal sponsored immigrant also required a joint sponsor when the principal sponsored immigrant immigrated, that same person may, but is not required to be, the joint sponsor for the alien who seeks to follow-to-join the principal sponsored immigrant.
