
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Transfer procedure.

(ii)To transfer schools, the student must first notify their current school (the "transfer-out" school) of the intent to transfer and indicate the school to which the student intends to transfer (the "transfer-in" school). Upon notification by the student, the transfer-out school must update SEVIS to show the student is transferring out, indicate the transfer-in school, and input the transfer release date. The release date will be the current semester or session completion date, or the date of expected transfer if earlier than the established academic cycle. The transfer-out school will retain control over the student's record in SEVIS until the student completes the current term or reaches the release date. At the request of the student, the DSO of the transfer-out school may cancel the transfer request at any time prior to the release date. As of the release date specified by the transfer-out DSO, the transfer-in school will be granted full access to the student's SEVIS record and then becomes responsible for that student. The transfer-out school conveys authority and responsibility over that student to the transfer-in school and relinquishes its SEVIS access to that student's record. As such, a transfer request may not be cancelled by the transfer-out DSO after the release date has been reached. After the release date, the transfer-in DSO must complete the transfer of the student's record in SEVIS and may issue a Form I-20 or successor form. The student is then required to contact the DSO at the transfer-in school within 15 days of the program start date listed on the Form I-20 or successor form. Upon notification that the student is enrolled in classes, the transfer-in DSO must update SEVIS to reflect the student's registration and current address, thereby acknowledging that the student has completed the transfer process. The transfer is completed when the transfer-in school notifies SEVIS that the student has enrolled in classes in accordance with the 30 days required by ยง 214.3(g)(2)(iii).
