
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Severe economic hardship application,1

(F)-() The applicant should submit the economic hardship application for employment authorization on Form I-765 or successor form, with the fee required by 8 CFR 106.2, and any other supporting materials such as affidavits which further detail the unforeseen circumstances that require the student to seek employment authorization and the unavailability or insufficiency of employment under paragraph (f)(9)(i) of this section to USCIS. Students should submit the Form I-20 or successor form with the employment page demonstrating the DSO's comments and certification. USCIS will adjudicate the application for work authorization based upon severe economic hardship on the basis of Form I-20 and Form I-765 or successor forms, and any additional supporting materials. If employment is authorized, the adjudicating officer will issue an employment authorization document (EAD). USCIS will notify the student of the decision, and, if the application is denied, of the reason or reasons for the denial. No appeal will lie from a decision to deny a request for employment authorization under this section. The employment authorization may be granted in one-year intervals up to the expected date of completion of the student's current course of study. A student has permission to engage in off-campus employment only if the student receives the EAD endorsed to that effect. Off-campus employment authorization may be renewed by USCIS only if the student is maintaining status and good academic standing. The employment authorization is automatically terminated whenever the student fails to maintain status.
