
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### G-1 and G-3 dependent employment pursuant to formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements, and G-4 dependent employment.

(5)(i) The Office of Protocol shall maintain a listing of foreign states which have entered into formal bilateral employment agreements. Dependents of a G-1 or G-3 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may accept or continue in unrestricted employment based on such formal bilateral agreements, if the applicable agreement includes persons in G-1 or G-3 visa status, upon favorable recommendation by the Department of State and issuance of employment authorization documentation by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. The application procedures are set forth in paragraph (g)(6) of this section.

(ii) For purposes of this section, an informal de facto reciprocal arrangement exists when the Department of State determines that a foreign state allows appropriate employment on the local economy for dependents of certain United States officials assigned to duty in that foreign state. The Office of Protocol shall maintain a listing of countries with which such reciprocity exists. Dependents of a G-1 or G-3 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized to accept or continue in employment based upon informal de facto arrangements, and dependents of a G-4 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized to accept or continue in employment upon favorable recommendation by the Department of State and issuance of employment authorization by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. Additionally, the procedures set forth in paragraph (g)(6) of this section must be complied with, and the following conditions must be met:

(A) Both the principal alien and the dependent desiring employment are maintaining G-1, G-3, or G-4 status as appropriate;

(B) The principal's assignment in the United States is expected to last more than six months;

(C) Employment of a similar nature for dependents of United States Government officials assigned to official duty in the foreign state employing the principal alien is not prohibited by that foreign government. The provisions of this paragraph apply only to G-1 and G-3 dependents;

(D) The proposed employment is not in an occupation listed in the Department of Labor Schedule B (20 CFR part 656), or otherwise determined by the Department of Labor to be one for which there is an oversupply of qualified U.S. workers in the area of proposed employment. This Schedule B restriction does not apply to a dependent son or daughter who is a full-time student if the employment is part-time, consisting of not more than 20 hours per week, and/or if it is temporary employment of not more than 12 weeks during school holiday periods; and

(E) The proposed employment is not contrary to the interest of the United States. Employment contrary to the interest of the United States includes, but is not limited to, the employment of G-1, G-3, or G-4 dependents: who have criminal records; who have violated United States immigration laws or regulations, or visa laws or regulations; who have worked illegally in the United States; and/or who cannot establish that they have paid taxes and social security on income from current or previous United States employment. Additionally, the Department of State may determine a G-4 dependent's employment is contrary to the interest of the United States when the principal alien's country of nationality has one or more components of an international organization or international organizations within its borders and does not allow the employment of dependents of United States citizens employed by such component(s) or organization(s).
