
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Application procedures.

(6)The following procedures are applicable to G-1 and G-3 dependent employment applications under bilateral agreements and de facto arrangements, as well as to G-4 dependent employment applications:

(i) The dependent must submit a completed Form I-566 to the Department of State through the office, mission, or organization which employs his or her principal alien. If the principal is assigned to or employed by the United Nations, the Form I-566 must be submitted to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. All other applications must be submitted to the Office of Protocol of the Department of State. A dependent applying under paragraph (g)(2) (iii) or (iv) of this section must submit a certified statement from the post-secondary educational institution confirming that he or she is pursuing studies on a full-time basis. A dependent applying under paragraph (g)(2)(v) of this section must submit medical certification regarding his or her condition. The certification should identify the dependent and the certifying physician and give the physician's phone number; identify the condition, describe the symptoms and provide a prognosis; certify that the dependent is unable to establish, re-establish, and maintain a home or his or her own. Additionally, a G-1 or G-3 dependent applying under the terms of a de facto arrangement or a G-4 dependent must attach a statement from the prospective employer which includes the dependent's name; a description of the position offered and the duties to be performed; the salary offered; and verification that the dependent possesses the qualifications for the position.

(ii) The Department of State reviews and verifies the information provided, makes its determination, and endorses the Form I-566.

(iii) If the Department of State's endorsement is favorable, the dependent may apply to USCIS for employment authorization. When applying to USCIS for employment authorization, the dependent must present his or her Form I-566 with a favorable endorsement from the Department of State and any additional documentation as may be required by the Secretary.
