
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(1) and (2) of this section.,1,2,1,2,1,2,1,2,1,2,1,2

(D)When calculating the numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)() and () of this section as authorized under Public Law 117-103, as extended by Public Law 117-180, USCIS will make numbers for each allocation available to petitions in the order in which the petitions subject to the respective limitation are received. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received (including the number of workers requested when necessary) and will notify the public of the dates that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the "final receipt dates") under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)() or () of this section. The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt dates. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)() and () of this section, USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt dates the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt dates that may be applicable under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)() or () of this section will be rejected. If the final receipt date is any of the first 5 business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)() or () of this section may be received (in other words, if either of the numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)() or () of this section is reached on any one of the first 5 business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those 5 business days.
