
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### i,Fewer registrations than needed to meet the H-1B regular cap.

()At the end of the annual initial registration period, if USCIS determines that it has received fewer registrations than needed to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will notify all petitioners that have properly registered that their registrations have been selected. USCIS will keep the registration period open beyond the initial registration period, until it determines that it has received a sufficient number of registrations to meet the H-1B regular cap. Once USCIS has received a sufficient number of registrations to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will no longer accept registrations for petitions subject to the H-1B regular cap under section 214(g)(1)(A). USCIS will monitor the number of registrations received and will notify the public of the date that USCIS has received the necessary number of registrations (the "final registration date"). The day the public is notified will not control the applicable final registration date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers under Section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, USCIS may randomly select the remaining number of registrations deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap from among the registrations received on the final registration date. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection.
