
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### 1,H-1B regular cap selection in event of suspended registration process.,i.e.,,1

()In determining whether there are enough H-1B cap-subject petitions to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will consider all petitions properly submitted in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2 relating to beneficiaries that may be counted under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, including those that may be eligible for exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act. When calculating the number of petitions needed to meet the H-1B regular cap USCIS will take into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received and will announce on its website the date that it receives the number of petitions projected as needed to meet the H-1B regular cap (the "final receipt date"). The date the announcement is posted will not control the final receipt date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers under the H-1B regular cap, USCIS may randomly select via computer-generated selection the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap from among the petitions properly submitted on the final receipt date. If the final receipt date is any of the first five business days on which petitions subject to the H-1B regular cap may be received (if the cap is reached on any one of the first five business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly select from among all the petitions properly submitted during the first five business days the number of petitions deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap. After any random selection under this paragraph (h)(8)(iv)(B)(), petitions that are subject to the H-1B regular cap and that do not qualify for the H-1B advanced degree exemption will be rejected if they are not randomly selected or were received after the final receipt date.
