
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### H-1C numerical limitations.

(vi)The 500 H-1C nonimmigrant visas issued each fiscal year shall be allocated in the following manner:

(A) For each fiscal year, the number of visas issued to the states of California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Texas shall not exceed 50 each (except as provided for in paragraph (h)(8)(vi)(C) of this section).

(B) For each fiscal year, the number of visas issued to the states not listed in paragraph (h)(8)(vi)(A) of this section shall not exceed 25 each (except as provided for in paragraph (h)(8)(vi)(C) of this section).

(C) If the total number of visas available during the first three quarters of a fiscal year exceeds the number of approvable H-1C petitions during those quarters, visas may be issued during the last quarter of the fiscal year to nurses who will be working in a state whose cap has already been reached for that fiscal year.

(D) When an approved H-1C petition is not used because the alien(s) does not obtain H-1C classification, e.g., the alien is never admitted to the United States, or the alien never worked for the facility, the facility must notify the Service according to the instructions contained in paragraph (h)(11)(ii) of this section. The Service will subtract H-1C petitions approved in the current fiscal year that are later revoked from the total count of approved H-1C petitions, provided that the alien never commenced employment with the facility.

(E) If the number of alien nurses included in an H-1C petition exceeds the number available for the remainder of a fiscal year, the Service shall approve the petition for the beneficiaries to the allowable amount in the order that they are listed on the petition. The remaining beneficiaries will be considered for approval in the subsequent fiscal year.

(F) Once the 500 cap has been reached, the Service will reject any new petitions subsequently filed requesting a work start date prior to the first day of the next fiscal year.
