
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### A nonprofit research organization or governmental research organization.

(C)A nonprofit research organization is an organization that is primarily engaged in basic research and/or applied research. A governmental research organization is a federal, state, or local entity whose primary mission is the performance or promotion of basic research and/or applied research. Basic research is general research to gain more comprehensive knowledge or understanding of the subject under study, without specific applications in mind. Basic research is also research that advances scientific knowledge, but does not have specific immediate commercial objectives although it may be in fields of present or potential commercial interest. It may include research and investigation in the sciences, social sciences, or humanities. Applied research is research to gain knowledge or understanding to determine the means by which a specific, recognized need may be met. Applied research includes investigations oriented to discovering new scientific knowledge that has specific commercial objectives with respect to products, processes, or services. It may include research and investigation in the sciences, social sciences, or humanities;

(D) A primary or secondary education institution; or

(E) A nonprofit entity which engages in an established curriculum-related clinical training of students registered at an institution of higher education.
