
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Change of employers during COVID-19 National Emergency (December 18, 2020 through June 16, 2021).

(22)(i) If an H-2A nonimmigrant who is physically present in the United States seeks to change employers during the COVID-19 National Emergency, the prospective new H-2A employer may file an H-2A petition on Form I-129, accompanied by a valid temporary agricultural labor certification, requesting an extension of the alien's stay in the United States. To be approved under this paragraph (h)(22), an H-2A petition must be received on or after December 18, 2020 but no later than June 16, 2021. If the new petition is approved, the extension of stay may be granted for the validity of the approved petition for a period not to exceed the validity period of the temporary agricultural labor certification. Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section and 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(21), an alien in valid H-2A nonimmigrant status on December 18, 2020, or lawfully obtaining such status thereafter pursuant to this paragraph (h)(22), is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner after the petition described in this paragraph (h)(22) is received by USCIS, but no earlier than the start date of employment, indicated in the H-2A petition. The H-2A worker is authorized to commence employment with the petitioner before the petition is approved and subject to the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(28) for a period of up to 45 days beginning on the Received Date on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) or, if the start date of employment occurs after the I-797 Received Date, 45 days beginning on the start date of employment indicated in the H-2A petition. If USCIS adjudicates the petition prior to the expiration of this 45-day period and denies the petition for extension of stay, or if the petition is withdrawn by the petitioner before the expiration of the 45-day period, the employment authorization associated with the filing of that petition under 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(28) will automatically terminate 15 days after the date of the denial decision or the date on which the petition is withdrawn.

(ii) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to this paragraph (h)(22) begins at 12 a.m. on December 18, 2020, and ends at the end of June 16, 2021.
