
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Transfer procedure.

(ii)A student must apply to USCIS on Form I-539 or successor form, for permission to transfer between schools. Upon application for school transfer, a student may affect the transfer subject to approval of the application. A student who transfers without complying with this requirement or whose application is denied after transfer (pursuant to this section) is considered to be out of status. If the application is approved, the approval date of the transfer will be determined to be the program start date listed on the Form I-20 or successor form, and the student will be granted an extension of stay for the period of time necessary to complete the new course of study plus 30 days, or for a total period of one year, whichever is less. The student must first notify their current school (the "transfer-out" school) of the intent to transfer and indicate the school to which the student intends to transfer (the "transfer-in" school). Upon notification by the student, the transfer-out school must update SEVIS to show the student is transferring out, indicate the transfer-in school, and input the transfer release date. Once SEVIS is updated, the transfer-in school may generate a Form I-20 or successor form for transfer. However, the transfer-in school will not gain access to the student's SEVIS record until the release date. Upon receipt of the Form I-20 or successor form from the transfer-in school, the student must submit Form I-539 or successor form in accordance with this paragraph (m)(11). The student may enroll in the transfer-in school at the next available term or session and is required to notify the DSO of the transfer-in school immediately upon beginning attendance. The transfer-in school must update the student's registration record in SEVIS in accordance with ยง 214.3(g)(2)(iii). Upon approval of the transfer application, USCIS will transmit the approval of the transfer to SEVIS. If the application for transfer is denied, the student is out of status, and the student's record must be terminated in SEVIS.
