
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Consultation,General.

(5)-(i)(A) Consultation with an appropriate U.S. peer group (which could include a person or persons with expertise in the field), labor and/or management organization regarding the nature of the work to be done and the alien's qualifications is mandatory before a petition for an O-1 or O-2 classification can be approved.

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(5)(i)(E) of this section, evidence of consultation shall be in the form of a written advisory opinion from a peer group (which could include a person or persons with expertise in the field), labor and/or management organization with expertise in the specific field involved.

(C) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(5)(i)(E) of this section, the petitioner shall obtain a written advisory opinion from a peer group (which could include a person or persons with expertise in the field), labor, and/or management organization with expertise in the specific field involved. The advisory opinion shall be submitted along with the petition when the petition is filed. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which supports the conclusion reached in the opinion. Advisory opinions must be submitted in writing and must be signed by an authorized official of the group or organization.

(D) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(5)(i)(E) and (G) of this section, written evidence of consultation shall be included in the record in every approved O petition. Consultations are advisory and are not binding on the Service.

(E) In a case where the alien will be employed in the field of arts, entertainment, or athletics, and the Service has determined that a petition merits expeditious handling, the Service shall contact the appropriate labor and/or management organization and request an advisory opinion if one is not submitted by the petitioner. The labor and/or management organization shall have 24 hours to respond to the Service's request. The Service shall adjudicate the petition after receipt of the response from the consulting organization. The labor and/or management organization shall then furnish the Service with a written advisory opinion within 5 days of the initiating request. If the labor and/or management organization fails to respond within 24 hours, the Service shall render a decision on the petition without the advisory opinion.

(F) In a routine processing case where the petition is accompanied by a written opinion from a peer group, but the peer group is not a labor organization, the Director will forward a copy of the petition and all supporting documentation to the national office of the appropriate labor organization within 5 days of receipt of the petition. If there is a collective bargaining representative of an employer's employees in the occupational classification for which the alien is being sought, that representative shall be the appropriate labor organization for purposes of this section. The labor organization will then have 15 days from receipt of the petition and supporting documents to submit to the Service a written advisory opinion, comment, or letter of no objection. Once the 15-day period has expired, the Director shall adjudicate the petition in no more than 14 days. The Director may shorten this time in his or her discretion for emergency reasons, if no unreasonable burden would be imposed on any participant in the process. If the labor organization does not respond within 15 days, the Director will render a decision on the record without the advisory opinion.

(G) In those cases where it is established by the petitioner that an appropriate peer group, including a labor organization, does not exist, the Service shall render a decision on the evidence of record.
