
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Consultation requirements for an O-2 accompanying alien.

(iv)Consultation with a labor organization with expertise in the skill area involved is required for an O-2 alien accompanying an O-1 alien of extraordinary ability. In the case of an O-2 alien seeking entry for a motion picture or television production, consultation with a labor organization and a management organization in the area of the alien's ability is required. If an advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which supports the conclusion reached in the opinion. If the advisory opinion is favorable to the petitioner, the opinion provided by the labor and/or management organization should describe the alien's essentiality to, and working relationship with, the O-1 artist or athlete and state whether there are available U.S. workers who can perform the support services. If the alien will accompany an O-1 alien involved in a motion picture or television production, the advisory opinion should address the alien's skills and experience with the O-1 alien and whether the alien has a pre-existing longstanding working relationship with the O-1 alien, or whether significant production will take place in the United States and abroad and if the continuing participation of the alien is essential to the successful completion of the production. A consulting organization may also submit a letter of no objection in lieu of the above if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
