
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Application procedures.

(5)The following procedures are required for dependent employment applications under bilateral agreements and de facto arrangements:

(i) The dependent of a NATO alien shall submit a complete application for employment authorization, including Form I-765 and Form I-566, completed in accordance with the instructions on, or attached to, those forms. The complete application shall be submitted to SACLANT for certification of the Form I-566 and forwarding to the Service.

(ii) In a case where a bilateral dependent employment agreement containing a numerical limitation on the number of dependents authorized to work is applicable, the certifying officer of SACLANT shall not forward the application for employment authorization to the Service unless, following consultation with State's Office of Protocol, the certifying officer has confirmed that this numerical limitation has not been reached. The countries with such limitations are indicated on the bilateral/de facto dependent employment listing issued by State's FLO.

(iii) SACLANT shall keep copies of each application and certified Form I-566 for 3 years from the date of the certification.

(iv) A dependent applying under the terms of a de facto arrangement must also attach a statement from the prospective employer which includes the dependent's name, a description of the position offered, the duties to be performed, the hours to be worked, the salary offered, and verification that the dependent possesses the qualifications for the position.

(v) A dependent applying under paragraph (s)(2) (iii) or (iv) of this section must also submit a certified statement from the post-secondary educational institution confirming that he or she is pursuing studies on a full-time basis.

(vi) A dependent applying under paragraph (s)(2)(v) of this section must also submit medical certification regarding his or her condition. The certification should identify both the dependent and the certifying physician, give the physician's phone number, identify the condition, describe the symptoms, provide a clear prognosis, and certify that the dependent is unable to maintain a home of his or her own.

(vii) The Service may require additional supporting documentation, but only after consultation with SACLANT.
