
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Failure to maintain status.

(11)An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act shall abide by all the terms and conditions of his or her S nonimmigrant classification imposed by the Attorney General. If the terms and conditions of S nonimmigrant classification will not be or have not been met, or have been violated, the alien is convicted of any criminal offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of 1 year or more, is otherwise rendered deportable, or it is otherwise appropriate or in the public interest to do so, the Commissioner shall proceed to deport an alien pursuant to the terms of 8 CFR 242.26. In the event the Commissioner decides to deport an alien witness or informant in S nonimmigrant classification, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deport.
