
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.2 Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
###### Extension of petition validity and extension of stay.

(18)(i) The petitioner may request an extension of an employee's CW-1 nonimmigrant status by filing a new petition.

(ii) A request for a petition extension may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.

(iii) Extensions of CW-1 status may be granted for a period of up to 1 year (or a period of up to 3 years if the beneficiary is a long-term worker) until the end of the transition period, subject to any numerical limitation.

(iv) To qualify for an extension of stay, the petitioner must demonstrate that the beneficiary or beneficiaries:

(A) Continuously maintained the terms and conditions of CW-1 status;

(B) Remains admissible to the United States; and

(C) Remains eligible for CW-1 classification.

(v) A beneficiary (other than a long-term worker) may not be granted CW-1 status beyond three consecutive petition validity periods unless the beneficiary has departed and remained outside of the United States for a continuous period of at least 30 days after the expiration of the third petition validity period and before the filing of any new petition on behalf of the beneficiary.

(vi) The derivative CW-2 nonimmigrant may file an application for extension of nonimmigrant stay on Form I-539 (or such alternative form as USCIS may designate) in accordance with the form instructions. The CW-2 status extension may not be approved until approval of the CW-1 extension petition.
