
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### § 214.4 Denial of certification, denial of recertification, or withdrawal of SEVP certification.
###### Automatic withdrawal.

(3)A school that is automatically withdrawn and subsequently wishes to enroll nonimmigrant students in the future may file a new petition for SEVP certification at any time. The school must use the certification petition procedures described in § 214.3(h) to gain access to SEVIS for submitting its petition. Past compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l), and with the requirements for transition of students under paragraph (i) of this section will be considered in the evaluation of a school's subsequent petition for certification. SEVP certification will be automatically withdrawn:

(i) As of the date of termination of operations, if an SEVP-certified school terminates its operations.

(ii) As of a school's certification expiration date, if an SEVP-certified school does not submit a completed recertification petition in the manner required by 8 CFR 214.3(h)(2).

(iii) Sixty days after the occurrence of the change of ownership if the school failed to update its information in accordance with § 214.3(h)(1) or properly file a new petition, SEVP will review the petition if the school properly files such petition to determine whether the school still meets the eligibility requirements of § 214.3(a)(3) and is still in compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of § 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l). SEVP will review the petition if the school properly files such petition to determine whether the school still meets the eligibility requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(a)(3) and is still in compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of 8 CFR 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l). SEVP will institute withdrawal proceedings in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section if, upon completion of the review, SEVP finds that the school is no longer eligible for certification, or is not in compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of § 214.3(f), (g), (j), (k), and (l), or failed to file a new petition within the allowable 60-day timeframe.

(iv) If an SEVP-certified school voluntarily withdraws from its certification.
