
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.11 Alien victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
###### Law Enforcement Agency (LEA) endorsement.

(i)An LEA endorsement is optional evidence that can be submitted to help demonstrate victimization and/or compliance with reasonable requests. An LEA endorsement is not mandatory and is not given any special evidentiary weight. An LEA endorsement itself does not grant a benefit and is one form of possible evidence but it does not lead to automatic approval of the application for T nonimmigrant status by USCIS. If provided, the LEA endorsement must be submitted on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions and must be signed by a supervising official responsible for the detection, investigation or prosecution of severe forms of trafficking in persons. The LEA endorsement must attach the results of any name or database inquiries performed and describe the victimization (including dates where known) and the cooperation of the victim. USCIS, not the LEA, will determine if the applicant was or is a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, and otherwise meets the eligibility requirements for T nonimmigrant status. The decision whether to complete an LEA endorsement is at the discretion of the LEA. A formal investigation or prosecution is not required to complete an LEA endorsement.
