
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.11 Alien victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
###### Evidence.

(1)The applicant must submit evidence that demonstrates that he or she is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons. Except in instances of sex trafficking involving victims under 18 years of age, severe forms of trafficking in persons must involve both a particular means (force, fraud, or coercion) and a particular end or a particular intended end (sex trafficking, involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery). If a victim has not performed labor or services, or a commercial sex act, the victim must establish that he or she was recruited, transported, harbored, provided, or obtained for the purposes of subjection to sex trafficking, involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery, or patronized or solicited for the purposes of subjection to sex trafficking. The applicant may satisfy this requirement by submitting:

(i) An LEA endorsement as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;

(ii) Documentation of a grant of Continued Presence under 28 CFR 1100.35; or

(iii) Any other evidence, including but not limited to, trial transcripts, court documents, police reports, news articles, copies of reimbursement forms for travel to and from court, and/or affidavits. In the victim's statement prescribed by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the applicant should describe what the alien has done to report the crime to an LEA and indicate whether criminal records relating to the trafficking crime are available.

(2) If the Continued Presence has been revoked or the contents of the LEA endorsement have been disavowed based on a determination that the applicant is not or was not a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, it will no longer be considered as evidence.
