
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 214 - NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 214.13 SEVIS fee for certain F, J, and M nonimmigrants.
###### Circumstances where no new fee is required.

(e)(1) Extension of stay, transfer, or optional practical training for students. An F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 nonimmigrant is not required to pay a new fee in connection with:

(i) An application for an extension of stay, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(7) or (m)(10);

(ii) An application for transfer, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(8) or (m)(11);

(iii) A change in educational level, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(ii); or

(iv) An application for post-completion practical training, as provided in 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii) or (m)(14).

(2) Extension of program or transfer for exchange visitors. A J-1 nonimmigrant is not required to pay a new fee in connection with:

(i) An application for an extension of program, as provided in 22 CFR 62.43; or

(ii) An application for transfer of program, as provided in 22 CFR 62.42.

(3) Visa issuance for a continuation of study. An F-1, F-3, J-1, M-1, or M-3 nonimmigrant who has previously paid the fee is not required to pay a new fee in order to be granted a visa to return to the United States as a continuing student or exchange visitor in a single course of study, so long as the nonimmigrant is not otherwise required to pay a new fee in accordance with the other provisions in this section.

(4) Certain changes in student classification.

(i) No fee is required for changes between the F-1 and F-3 classifications, and no fee is required for changes between the M-1 and M-3 classifications.

(ii) Institutional reclassification. DHS retains the discretionary authority to waive the additional fee requirement when a nonimmigrant changes classification between F and M, if the change of status is due solely to institutional reclassification by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program during that nonimmigrant's course of study.

(5) Re-application following denial of application by consular officer. An alien who fully paid a SEVIS fee in connection with an initial application for an F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 visa, or a J-1 visa in a particular program category, whose initial application was denied, and who is reapplying for the same status, or the same J-1 exchange visitor category, within 12 months following the initial notice of denial is not required to repay the SEVIS fee.

(6) Re-application following denial of an application for a change of status. A nonimmigrant who fully paid a SEVIS fee in connection with an initial application for a change of status within in the United States to F-1, F-3, M-1, or M-3 classification, or for a change of status to a particular J-1 exchange visitor category, whose initial application was denied, and who is granted a motion to reopen the denied case is not required to repay the SEVIS fee if the motion to reopen is granted within 12 months of receipt of initial notice of denial.

(f) [Reserved]
