
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 106 - USCIS FEE SCHEDULE
##### ยง 106.4 Premium processing service.
###### Processing timeframes.

(e)The processing timeframes for a request for premium processing are as follows:

(1) Application for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(E)(i), (ii), or (iii) of the INA-15 days.

(2) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the INA or section 222(a) of the Immigration Act of 1990, Public Law 101-649-15 days.

(3) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the INA-15 days.

(4) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(iii) of the INA-15 days.

(5) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(L) of the INA-15 days.

(6) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) or (ii) of the INA-15 days.

(7) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(P)(i), (ii), or (iii) of the INA-15 days.

(8) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(Q) of the INA-15 days.

(9) Petition for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(R) of the INA-15 days.

(10) Application for classification of a nonimmigrant described in section 214(e) of the INA-15 days.

(11) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(1)(A) of the INA-15 days.

(12) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(1)(B) of the INA-15 days.

(13) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(2)(A) of the INA not involving a waiver under section 203(b)(2)(B) of the INA-15 days.

(14) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(3)(A)(i) of the INA-15 days.

(15) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the INA-15 days.

(16) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(3)(A)(iii) of the INA-15 days.

(17) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(1)(C) of the INA-45 days.

(18) Petition for classification under section 203(b)(2) of the INA involving a waiver under section 203(b)(2)(B) of the INA-45 days.

(19) Application under section 248 of the INA to change status to a classification described in section 101(a)(15)(F), (J), or (M) of the INA-30 days.

(20) Application under section 248 of the INA to change status to be classified as a dependent of a nonimmigrant described in section 101(a)(15)(E), (H), (L), (O), (P), or (R) of the INA, or to extend stay in such classification-30 days.

(21) Application for employment authorization-30 days.
