
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 231 - ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE MANIFESTS
##### ยง 231.2 Electronic manifest and I-94 requirement for passengers and crew onboard departing vessels and aircraft.
###### Submission of Form I-94,General requirement.

(b)-(1)In addition to the electronic manifest transmission requirement specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and subject to the exception of paragraph (2) of this paragraph (b), the master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or consignee, of each commercial vessel or aircraft departing from the United States to any place outside the United States must present a properly completed departure portion of an Arrival/Departure Record, Form I-94 (see ยง 1.4), to the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer at the port of departure for each person on board. Whenever possible, the departure Form I-94 presented must be the same form given to the alien at the time of arrival in the United States. The carrier must endorse the I-94 with the departure information on the reverse of the form. Submission of the I-94 to the CBP officer must be accomplished within 48 hours of the departure, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. Failure to submit the departure I-94 within this period may be regarded as a failure to comply with section 231(g) of the Act, unless prior authorization for delayed delivery is obtained from CBP. A non-immigrant alien departing on an aircraft proceeding directly to Canada on a flight terminating in that country must surrender any Form I-94 in his/her possession to the airline agent at the port of departure.
