
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 106 - USCIS FEE SCHEDULE
##### ยง 106.4 Premium processing service.
###### Processing requirements and refunds.

(f)(1) USCIS will issue an approval notice, denial notice, a notice of intent to deny, or a request for evidence within the premium processing timeframe.

(2) Premium processing timeframes will commence:

(i) For those benefits described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (16) of this section, on the date the form prescribed by USCIS, together with the required fee(s), are received by USCIS.

(ii) For those benefits described in paragraphs (e)(17) through (21) of this section, on the date that all prerequisites for adjudication, the form prescribed by USCIS, and fee(s) are received by USCIS.

(3) In the event USCIS issues a notice of intent to deny or a request for evidence, the premium processing timeframe will stop. The premium processing timeframe as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (21) of this section will start over on the date that USCIS receives a response to the notice of intent to deny or the request for evidence.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, USCIS will refund the premium processing service fee but continue to process the case if USCIS does not take adjudicative action described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section within the applicable processing timeframe as required in paragraph (e) of this section.

(5) USCIS may retain the premium processing fee and not take an adjudicative action described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section on the request within the applicable processing timeframe, and not notify the person who filed the request, if USCIS opens an investigation for fraud or misrepresentation relating to the immigration benefit request.
