
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 232 - DETENTION OF ALIENS FOR PHYSICAL AND MENTAL EXAMINATION
##### ยง 232.2 Examination in the United States of alien applicants for benefits under the immigration laws and other aliens.
###### Selection of civil surgeons.

(b)When a civil surgeon is to perform the examination, he shall be selected by the district director having jurisdiction over the area of the alien's residence. The district director shall select as many civil surgeons, including clinics and local, county and state health departments employing qualified civil surgeons, as he determines to be necessary to serve the needs of the Service in a locality under his jurisdiction. Each civil surgeon selected shall be a licensed physician with no less than 4 years' professional experience. Under usual circumstances physicians will be required to meet the 4 year professional experience criteria. However, at the district director's discretion other physicians with less experience can be designated to address unusual or unforeseen situations as the need arises. Officers of local health departments and medical societies may be consulted to obtain the names of competent surgeons and clinics willing to make the examinations. An understanding shall be reached with respect to the fee which the surgeon or clinic will charge for the examination. The alien shall pay the fee agreed upon directly to the surgeon making the examination.
