
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 235 - INSPECTION OF PERSONS APPLYING FOR ADMISSION
##### ยง 235.12 Global Entry program.
###### Denial, removal and suspension.

(j)(1) If an applicant is denied participation in Global Entry, CBP will notify the applicant of the denial, and the reasons for the denial. CBP will also provide instructions regarding how to proceed if the applicant wishes to seek additional information as to the reason for the denial.

(2) A Global Entry participant may be suspended or removed from the program for any of the following reasons:

(i) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has engaged in any disqualifying activities under the Global Entry program as outlined in ยง 235.12(b)(2);

(ii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant provided false information in the application and/or during the application process;

(iii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant failed to follow the terms, conditions and requirements of the program;

(iv) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has been arrested or convicted of a crime or otherwise no longer meets the program eligibility criteria; or

(v) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that such action is otherwise necessary.

(3) CBP will notify the participant of his or her suspension or removal in writing. Such suspension or removal is effective immediately.

(4) An applicant or participant denied, suspended, or removed does not receive a refund, in whole or in part, of his or her application processing fee.
