
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 236 - APPREHENSION AND DETENTION OF INADMISSIBLE AND DEPORTABLE ALIENS; REMOVAL OF ALIENS ORDERED REMOVED
##### Subpart A - Detention of Aliens Prior to Order of Removal
###### ยง 236.3 Processing, detention, and release of alien minors.
####### Release of minors who are not UACs from DHS custody.

(j)(1) DHS will make and record prompt and continuous efforts on its part toward the release of the minor who is not a UAC.

(2) If a minor who is not a UAC is in expedited removal proceedings (including if he or she is awaiting a credible fear determination), or is subject to a final expedited removal order, custody is governed by ยง 235.3(b)(2)(iii) or (b)(4)(ii) of this chapter, as applicable.

(3) If a minor who is not a UAC is subject to pending removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, DHS will consider whether to release the minor pursuant to section 212(d)(5) or section 236(a), and the implementing regulations in 8 CFR 212.5 and ยง 235.3, as applicable.

(4) The parole of minors who are not UACs who are detained pursuant to section 235(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act or ยง 235.3(c) of this chapter will generally serve an urgent humanitarian reason warranting release on parole if DHS determines that detention is not required to secure the minor's timely appearance before DHS or the immigration court, or to ensure the minor's safety and well-being or the safety of others. In making this determination, DHS may consider aggregate and historical data, officer experience, statistical information, or any other probative information. The determination whether to parole a minor who is not a UAC is in the unreviewable discretion of DHS.

(5) If DHS determines to release a minor who is not a UAC during removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, the following procedures shall apply:

(i) If a parent or legal guardian is available to provide care and physical custody, DHS will make prompt and continuous efforts to release the minor to that parent or legal guardian. Nothing in this paragraph (j)(5)(i) precludes the release of a minor who is not a UAC to an adult relative (brother, sister, aunt, uncle, or grandparent) who is not in detention and is available to provide care and physical custody. Release of a minor who is not a UAC to an adult relative other than a parent or legal guardian is within the unreviewable discretion of DHS.

(ii) Prior to releasing a minor who is not a UAC to an adult relative pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(i) of this section, DHS will use all available reliable evidence to determine whether the relationship is bona fide. If no reliable evidence is available that confirms the relationship, DHS may continue to keep the minor who is not a UAC in custody or treat the minor as a UAC and transfer the UAC to HHS custody, as outlined in paragraph (f) of this section.

(iii) DHS shall assist without undue delay in making transportation arrangements to the DHS office nearest the location of the relative to whom a minor is to be released. DHS may, in its discretion, provide transportation to minors.

(iv) Nothing herein shall require DHS to release a minor to any person or agency whom DHS has reason to believe may harm or neglect the minor or fail to present him or her before DHS or the immigration courts when requested to do so.
