
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 236 - APPREHENSION AND DETENTION OF INADMISSIBLE AND DEPORTABLE ALIENS; REMOVAL OF ALIENS ORDERED REMOVED
##### Subpart A - Detention of Aliens Prior to Order of Removal
###### ยง 236.4 Removal of S-5, S-6, and S-7 nonimmigrants.
####### Removal procedures.

(c)(1) A district director who determines to remove an alien witness or informant in S nonimmigrant classification shall notify the Commissioner, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant law enforcement agency in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant law enforcement agency have a right of appeal from any decision to remove.

(2) A district director who has provided notice as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and who has been advised by the Commissioner that the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, has not objected shall issue a Warrant of Removal. The alien shall immediately be arrested and taken into custody by the district director initiating the removal. An alien classified under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act who is determined, pursuant to a warrant issued by a district director, to be deportable from the United States shall be removed from the United States to his or her country of nationality or last residence. The agency that requested the alien's presence in the United States shall ensure departure from the United States and so inform the district director in whose jurisdiction the alien has last resided. The district director, if necessary, shall oversee the alien's departure from the United States and, in any event, shall notify the Commissioner of the alien's departure.
