
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 241 - APPREHENSION AND DETENTION OF ALIENS ORDERED REMOVED
##### Subpart A - Post-hearing Detention and Removal
###### ยง 241.11 Detention and removal of stowaways.
####### Repatriation of stowaways,Requirements of carrier.

(c)-(1)Following inspection, an immigration officer may order the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee of a vessel or aircraft bringing any alien stowaway to the United States to remove the stowaway on the vessel or aircraft of arrival, unless it is impracticable to do so or other factors exist which would preclude removal on the same vessel or aircraft. Such factors may include, but are not limited to, sanitation, health, and safety concerns for the crew and/or stowaway, whether the stowaway is a female or a juvenile, loss of insurance coverage on account of the stowaway remaining aboard, need for repairs to the vessel, and other similar circumstances. If the owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee requests that he or she be allowed to remove the stowaway by other means, the Service shall favorably consider any such request, provided the carrier has obtained, or will obtain in a timely manner, any necessary travel documents and has made or will make all transportation arrangements. The owner, agent, master, commanding officer, charterer, or consignee shall transport the stowaway or arrange for secure escort of the stowaway to the vessel or aircraft of departure to ensure that the stowaway departs the United States. All expenses relating to removal shall be borne by the owner. Other than requiring compliance with the detention and removal requirements contained in section 241(d)(2) of the Act, the Service shall not impose additional conditions on the carrier regarding security arrangements. Failure to comply with an order to remove an alien stowaway shall result in a civil penalty under section 243(c)(1)(A) of the Act.
