
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 244 - TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS FOR NATIONALS OF DESIGNATED STATES
##### ยง 244.10 Decision and appeal.
###### Grant of temporary protected status.

(f)(1) The decision to grant Temporary Protected Status shall be evidenced by the issuance of an alien registration document. For those aliens requesting employment authorization, the employment authorization document will act as alien registration.

(2) The alien shall be provided with a notice, in English and in the language of the designated foreign state or a language that the alien understands, of the following benefits:

(i) The alien shall not be deported while maintaining Temporary Protected Status;

(ii) Employment authorization;

(iii) The privilege to travel abroad with the prior consent of the director as provided in ยง 244.15;

(iv) For the purposes of adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act and change of status under section 248 of the Act, the alien is considered as being in, and maintaining, lawful status as a nonimmigrant while the alien maintains Temporary Protected Status.

(v) An alien eligible to apply for Temporary Protected Status under ยง 244.2(f)(2), who was prevented from filing a late application for registration because the regulations failed to provide him or her with this opportunity, will be considered to have been maintaining lawful status as a nonimmigrant until the benefit is granted.

(3) The benefits contained in the notice are the only benefits the alien is entitled to under Temporary Protected Status.

(4) Such notice shall also advise the alien of the following:

(i) The alien must remain eligible for Temporary Protected Status;

(ii) The alien must register annually with the district office or service center having jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence; and

(iii) The alien's failure to comply with paragraphs (f)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section will result in the withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status, including work authorization granted under this Program, and may result in the alien's deportation from the United States.
