
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 245.15 Adjustment of status of certain Haitian nationals under the Haitian Refugee Immigrant Fairness Act of 1998 (HRIFA).
###### Parole authorization for the purpose of filing an application for adjustment of status under section 902 of HRIFA.

(2)(i) An otherwise eligible applicant who is outside the United States and wishes to come to the United States in order to apply for benefits under section 902 of HRIFA may request parole authorization for such purpose by filing a request on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions. Such application must be supported by a photocopy of the application for adjustment of status that the alien will file once he or she has been paroled into the United States. The applicant must include photocopies of all the supporting documentation listed in paragraph (h) of this section, except the filing fee, the medical report, the fingerprint card, and the local police clearances.

(ii) If the Director of the Nebraska Service Center is satisfied that the alien will be eligible for adjustment of status once the alien has been paroled into the United States and files the application, he or she may issue an Authorization for Parole of an Alien into the United States (Form I-512) to allow the alien to travel to, and be paroled into, the United States for a period of 60 days.

(iii) The applicant shall have 60 days from the date of parole to file the application for adjustment of status. If the alien files the application for adjustment of status within that 60-day period, the Service may re-parole the alien for such time as is necessary for adjudication of the application. Failure to file such application for adjustment of status within 60 days shall result in the alien being returned to the custody of the Service and being examined as an arriving alien applying for admission. Such examination will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of section 235(b)(1) of the Act if the alien is inadmissible under section 212(a)(6)(C) or 212(a)(7) of the Act, or section 240 of the Act if the alien is inadmissible under any other grounds.

(iv) Parole may only be authorized pursuant to the authority contained in, and the standards prescribed in, section 212(d)(5) of the Act. The authority of the Director of the Nebraska Service Center to authorize parole from outside the United States under this provision shall expire on March 31, 2000.
