
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 245a - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSONS ADMITTED FOR TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS UNDER SECTION 245A OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT
##### Subpart A - Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) Legalization Provisions
###### ยง 245a.2 Application for temporary residence.
####### Ineligible aliens.

(c)(1) An alien who has been convicted of a felony, or three or more misdemeanors.

(2) An alien who has assisted in the persecution of any person or persons on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.

(3) An alien excludable under the provisions of section 212(a) of the Act whose grounds of excludability may not be waived, pursuant to section 245A(d)(2)(B)(ii) of this Act.

(4) An alien who at any time was a nonimmigrant exchange visitor who is subject to the two-year foreign residence requirement unless the requirement has been satisfied or waived pursuant to the provisions of section 212(e) of the Act who has resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status since January 1, 1982.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) An alien who is the subject of an Order to Show Cause issued under section 242 of the Act during the period beginning on May 5, 1987 and ending on April 4, 1988 who does not file an application for adjustment of status to that of temporary resident under section 245A(a) of the Act prior to the thirty-first day after issuance of the order.

(7) An alien who is the subject of an Order to Show Cause issued under section 242 of the Act during the period beginning on April 5, 1988 and ending on May 4, 1988 who does not file an application for adjustment of status to that of a temporary resident under section 245A(a) of the Act prior to May 5, 1988.

(8) An alien who was paroled into the United States prior to January 1, 1982 and whose parole status terminated or expired subsequent to January 1, 1982, except an alien who was granted advance parole.
