
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 245a - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSONS ADMITTED FOR TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS UNDER SECTION 245A OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT
##### Subpart A - Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) Legalization Provisions
###### ยง 245a.2 Application for temporary residence.
####### Filing of application.

(e)(1) The application must be filed on Form I-687 at an office of a designated entity or at a Service Legalization Office within the jurisdiction of the District wherein the applicant resides. If the application is filed with a designated entity, the alien must have consented to having the designated entity forward the application to the legalization office. In the case of applications filed at a legalization office, the district director may, at his or her discretion:

(i) Require the applicant to file the application in person; or

(ii) Require the applicant to file the application by mail; or

(iii) Permit the filing of applications either by mail or in person.

The applicant must appear for a personal interview at the legalization office as scheduled. If the applicant is 14 years of age or older, the application must be accompanied by a completed Form FD-258 (Applicant Card).

(2) At the time of the interview, wherever possible, original documents must be submitted except the following: Official government records; employment or employment-related records maintained by employers, unions, or collective bargaining organizations; medical records; school records maintained by a school or school board; or other records maintained by a party other than the applicant. Copies of records maintained by parties other than the applicant which are submitted in evidence must be certified as true and correct by such parties and must bear their seal or signature or the signature and title of persons authorized to act in their behalf. If at the time of the interview the return of original documents is desired by the applicant, they must be accompanied by notarized copies or copies certified true and correct by a qualified designated entity or by the alien's representative in the format prescribed in ยง 204.2(j)(1) or (2) of this chapter. At the discretion of the district director, original documents, even if accompanied by certified copies, may be temporarily retained for forensic examination by the Document Analysis Unit at the Regional Processing Facility having jurisdiction over the legalization office to which the documents were submitted.

(3) A separate application must be filed by each applicant with the fees required by 8 CFR 106.2.
