
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 245a - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSONS ADMITTED FOR TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS UNDER SECTION 245A OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT
##### Subpart A - Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) Legalization Provisions
###### ยง 245a.2 Application for temporary residence.
####### Limitation on access to information and confidentiality.

(t)(1) No person other than a sworn officer or employee of the Justice Department or bureau of agency thereof, will be permitted to examine individual applications, except employees of designated entities where applications are filed with the same designated entity. For purposes of this part, any individual employed under contract by the Service to work in connection with the legalization program shall be considered an "employee of the Justice Department or bureau or agency thereof."

(2) Files and records prepared by designated entities under this section are confidential. The Attorney General and the Service shall not have access to these files and records without the consent of the alien.

(3) No information furnished pursuant to an application for legalization under this section shall be used for any purpose except: (i) To make a determination on the application; or, (ii) for the enforcement of the provisions encompassed in section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (t)(4) of this section.

(4) If a determination is made by the Service that the alien has, in connection with his or her application, engaged in fraud or willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly provided a false writing or document in making his or her application, knowingly made a false statement or representation, or engaged in any other activity prohibited by section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, the Service shall refer the matter to the United States Attorney for prosecution of the alien or of any person who created or supplied a false writing or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this part.

(5) Information obtained in a granted legalization application and contained in the applicant's file is subject to subsequent review in reference to future benefits applied for (including petitions for naturalization and permanent resident status for relatives).
