
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 245a - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSONS ADMITTED FOR TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS UNDER SECTION 245A OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT
##### Subpart A - Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) Legalization Provisions
###### ยง 245a.2 Application for temporary residence.
####### Procedure,Termination by the Service.

(2)-(i)Except as provided in paragraph (u)(2)(ii) of this section, termination of an alien's temporary resident status under paragraph (u)(1) of this section will be made before instituting deportation proceedings against a temporary resident alien and only on notice sent to the alien by certified mail directed to his or her last known address, and to his or her representative, if any. The alien must be given an opportunity to offer evidence in opposition to the grounds alleged for termination of his or her status. Evidence in opposition must be submitted within thirty (30) days after the service of the Notice of Intent to Terminate. If the alien's status is terminated, the director of the regional processing facility shall notify the alien of the decision and the reasons for the termination, and further notify the alien that any Service Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record or other official Service document issued to the alien authorizing employment and/or travel abroad, or any Form I-688, Temporary Resident Card previously issued to the alien will be declared void by the director of the regional processing facility within thirty (30) days if no appeal of the termination decision is filed within that period. The alien may appeal the decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit). Any appeal with the required fee shall be filed with the regional processing facility within thirty (30) days after the service of the notice of termination. If no appeal is filed within that period, the I-94, I-688 or other official Service document shall be deemed void, and must be surrendered without delay to an immigration officer or to the issuing office of the Service.
