
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 245a - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSONS ADMITTED FOR TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS UNDER SECTION 245A OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT
##### Subpart A - Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) Legalization Provisions
###### ยง 245a.4 Adjustment to lawful resident status of certain nationals of countries for which extended voluntary departure has been made available.
####### Employment and travel authorization prior to the granting of temporary resident status.

(ii)(A) Permission to travel abroad and accept employment may be granted to the applicant after an interview has been conducted in connection with an application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status. Permission to travel abroad may be granted in emergent circumstances in accordance with the Service's advance parole provisions contained in ยง 212.5(f) of this chapter after an interview has been conducted in connection with an application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status.

(B) If an appointment cannot be scheduled within 30 days, authorization to accept employment will be granted, valid until the scheduled appointment date. The appointment letter will be endorsed with the temporary employment authorization. An employment authorization document will be given to the applicant after an interview has been completed by an immigration officer unless a formal denial is issued by a Service office. This temporary employment authorization will be restricted to six-months duration, pending final determination on the application for temporary resident status.
