
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 247 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OF CERTAIN RESIDENT ALIENS
##### ยง 247.12 Disposition of case.
###### Answer filed; personal appearance.

(b)Upon receipt of an answer asserting a defense to the allegations made in the notice without requesting a personal appearance, or if a personal appearance is requested or directed, the case shall be assigned to an immigration officer. Pertinent evidence, including testimony of witnesses, shall be incorporated in the record. The immigration officer shall prepare a report summarizing the evidence and containing his findings and recommendation. The record, including the report and recommendation of the immigration officer, shall be forwarded to the district director who caused the notice to be served. The district director shall note on the report of the immigration officer whether he approves or disapproves the recommendation of the immigration officer. If the decision of the district director is that the matter be terminated, the alien shall be informed of such decision. If the decision of the district director is that the status of the alien should be adjusted to that of a nonimmigrant, his decision shall provide that unless the alien, within 10 days of receipt of notification of such decision, requests permission to retain his status as an immigrant and files with the district director Form I-508 and, if applicable, Form I-508F, the alien's immigrant status be adjusted to that of a nonimmigrant. The alien shall be informed of such decision and of the reasons therefor, and of his right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter. If the alien does not request that he be permitted to retain status and file the Form I-508 and, if applicable, Form I-508F within the period provided therefor, the district director, without further notice to the alien, shall cause a set of Forms I-94 to be prepared evidencing the nonimmigrant classification to which the alien has been adjusted. Form I-94A shall be delivered to the alien. The alien's nonimmigrant status shall be for such time, under such conditions, and subject to such regulations as are applicable to the particular nonimmigrant status created and shall be subject to such other terms and conditions, including the exaction of bond, as the district director may deem appropriate.
