
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 248 - CHANGE OF NONIMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION
##### ยง 248.2 Ineligible classes.

(a) Except as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the following categories of aliens are not eligible to change their nonimmigrant status under section 248 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1258:

(1) Any alien in immediate and continuous transit through the United States without a visa;

(2) Any alien classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15) (C), (D), (K), or (S) of the Act;

(3) Any alien admitted as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, or who acquired such status after admission in order to receive graduate medical education or training, whether or not the alien was subject to, received a waiver of, or fulfilled the two-year foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act. This restriction shall not apply when the alien is a foreign medical graduate who was granted a waiver under section 212(e)(iii) of the Act pursuant to a request made by a State Department of Public Health (or its equivalent) under Pub. L. 103-416, and the alien complies with the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver under section 214(k) of the Act and the implementing regulations at ยง 212.7(c)(9) of this chapter. A foreign medical graduate who was granted a waiver under Pub. L. 103-416 and who does not fulfill the requisite 3-year employment contract or otherwise comply with the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver is ineligible to apply for change of status to any other nonimmigrant classification; and

(4) Any alien classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act (other than an alien described in paragraph (c) of this section) who is subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act and who has not received a waiver of the residence requirement, except when the alien applies to change to a classification under section 101(a)(15)(A) or (G) of the Act.

(5) Any alien admitted as a visitor under the visa waiver provisions of ยง 212.1(e) of this chapter.

(6) Any alien admitted as a Visa Waiver Pilot Program visitor under the provisions of section 217 of the Act and part 217 of this chapter.

(b) The prohibition against a change of nonimmigrant status for the categories of aliens described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section is inapplicable to aliens applying for a change of nonimmigrant status to that of a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U).
