
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 248 - CHANGE OF NONIMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION
##### ยง 248.3 Petition and application.
###### Change to S nonimmigrant classification.

(h)An eligible state or federal law enforcement agency ("LEA"), which shall include a state or federal court or a United States Attorney's Office, may seek to change the nonimmigrant classification of a nonimmigrant lawfully admitted to the United States, except those enumerated in ยง 248.2 of this chapter, to that of an alien witness or informant pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act by filing with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the forms designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions establishing eligibility for the change of nonimmigrant classification.

(1) If the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, certifies the request for S nonimmigrant classification in accordance with the procedures set forth in 8 CFR 214.2(t), the Assistant Attorney General shall forward the LEA's request on Form I-854 with Form I-539 to the Commissioner. No request for change of nonimmigrant classification to S classification may proceed to the Commissioner unless it has first been certified by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division.

(2) In the event the Commissioner decides to deny an application to change nonimmigrant classification to S nonimmigrant classification, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deny.
