
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 251 - ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE MANIFESTS AND LISTS: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
##### ยง 251.1 Arrival manifests and lists.
###### Longshore work information.

(2)Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the master or agent of the vessel must electronically submit via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP an affirmation as to whether crewmen aboard the vessel will be used to perform longshore work at any United States port before the vessel departs the United States.

(i) If no longshore work will be performed, no further information regarding longshore work is required.

(ii) If longshore work will be performed, the master or agent must indicate which exception listed in section 258 of the Act permits the work. The exceptions are:

(A) The hazardous cargo exception;

(B) The prevailing practice exception in accordance with a port's collective bargaining agreements;

(C) The prevailing practice exception at a port where there is no collective bargaining agreement, but for which the vessel files an attestation;

(D) The prevailing practice exception for automated vessels; and

(E) The reciprocity exception.

(iii) If longshore work will be performed under the hazardous cargo exception, the vessel must either be a tanker or be transporting dry bulk cargo that qualifies as hazardous. All tankers qualify for the hazardous cargo exception, except for a tanker that has been gas-freed to load non-hazardous dry bulk commodities.

(A) To invoke the exception for tankers, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the vessel is a qualifying tanker.

(B) If the vessel is transporting dry bulk hazardous cargo, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the vessel's dry bulk cargo is hazardous and must show the immigration officer the dangerous cargo manifest that is signed by the master or an authorized representative of the owner, and that under 46 CFR 148.02 must be kept in a conspicuous place near the bridge house.

(iv) If longshore work will be performed under the prevailing practice exception, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest each port at which longshore work will be performed under this exception. Additionally, for each port the master or agent must indicate either that:

(A) The practice of nonimmigrant crewmen doing longshore work is in accordance with all collective bargaining agreements covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers in the port;

(B) The port has no collective bargaining agreement covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers in the port and an attestation has been filed with the Secretary of Labor;

(C) An attestation that was previously filed is still valid and the vessel continues to comply with the conditions stated in that attestation; or

(D) The longshore work consists of operating an automated, self-unloading conveyor belt or a vacuum-actuated system.

(v) If longshore work will be performed under the reciprocity exception, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the work will be done under the reciprocity exception, and will indicate the nationality of the vessel's registry and the nationality or nationalities of the holders of a majority of the ownership interest in the vessel.
