
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 251 - ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE MANIFESTS AND LISTS: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
##### ยง 251.1 Arrival manifests and lists.
###### Exception for certain Great Lakes vessels.

(3)(i) A manifest is not required for a vessel of United States, Canadian, or British registry engaged solely in traffic on the Great Lakes or the St. Lawrence River and connecting waterways, herein designated as a Great Lakes vessel, unless:

(A) The vessel employs nonimmigrant crewmen who will do longshore work at a port in the United States; or

(B) The vessel employs crewmen of other than United States, Canadian, or British citizenship.

(ii) In either situation, the master must follow the instructions prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(iii) After submission of a manifest on the first voyage of a calendar year, a manifest is not required on subsequent arrivals unless a nonimmigrant crewman of other than Canadian or British citizenship is employed on the vessel who was not aboard and listed on the last prior manifest, or a change has occurred regarding the performance of longshore work in the United States by nonimmigrant crewmen, or a change has occurred in the exception that the master or agent of the vessel wishes to invoke which was not indicated in the last prior manifest.

(4) The master or agent of a vessel that only bunkers at a United States port en route to another United States port must electronically submit via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP the time, date, and place of bunkering.

(5) If documentation is required to support an exception, as described in ยง 258.2 of this chapter, it must be sent to CBP electronically or be presented to CBP upon arrival at the port of immigration inspection.
