
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 253 - PAROLE OF ALIEN CREWMEN
##### ยง 253.2 Termination of parole.
###### Revocation of parole.

(b)When an immigration officer has reason to believe that an alien crewman paroled into the United States pursuant to the provisions of ยง 253.1 has violated the conditions of parole, the immigration officer may take such alien crewman into custody without a warrant of arrest. Following such action, the alien crewman shall be accorded, without undue delay, an examination by another immigration officer. If it is determined on the basis of such examination that the individual detained is an alien crewman who was paroled into the United States pursuant to the provisions of ยง 253.1 and that he has violated the conditions of the parole or has remained in the United States beyond the period authorized by the district director, the district director shall cause to be served upon the alien crewman a written notice that his parole has been revoked, setting forth the reasons for such action. If the vessel or aircraft upon which the alien crewman arrived in the United States is still in the United States, the alien crewman shall be delivered to that vessel or aircraft and Form I-259 shall be served upon the master or commanding officer of the vessel or aircraft directing that the alien crewman be detained on board the vessel or aircraft and deported from the United States. A copy of Form I-259 shall also be served on the agent for the vessel or aircraft. If the vessel or aircraft upon which the alien crewman arrived in the United States has departed from the United States, the agent or owner of the vessel or aircraft shall be directed by means of a notice on Form I-259 to effect the deportation of the alien crewman from the United States. Pending deportation, the alien crewman shall be continued in custody, unless the district director authorizes his release on parole under such conditions, including the posting of a suitable bond, as the district director may prescribe.
