
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 258 - LIMITATIONS ON PERFORMANCE OF LONGSHORE WORK BY ALIEN CREWMEN
##### ยง 258.2 Exceptions.
###### Documentation to be presented under the prevailing practice exception.

(2)(i) If the master or agent indicates in the manifest, or on Form I-418 if submitting the paper version, that nonimmigrant crewmen will perform longshore work at a port under the prevailing practice exception as permitted by all collective bargaining agreements covering 30 percent or more of the persons performing longshore work at the port, then the master or agent must present to the examining immigration officer an affidavit from the local stevedore. The stevedore or a union representative of the employees' association must state on the affidavit that all bargaining agreements covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers at the port allow nonimmigrant crewmen either to perform all longshore work or to perform those specified longshore activities that crewmen on the vessel intend to perform.

(ii) Where there is no collective bargaining agreement in effect at a port covering at least 30 percent of the persons who do longshore work, and the master or agent indicates in the manifest that nonimmigrant crewmen will perform such work under the prevailing practice exception, then the master or agent must present a copy of the notification received from the Secretary of Labor that the attestation required for this exception has been accepted.

(iii) When an unanticipated emergency occurs, the master or agent of a vessel may file an attestation with the Secretary of Labor up to the date on which crewmen perform longshore work.

(A) If, because of an unanticipated emergency, crewmen on a vessel perform longshore work under the prevailing practice exception at a port, a revised manifest must be submitted together with complete documentation, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, within 14 days of the longshore work having been done. Failure to present the required documentation may result in a fine under section 251 of the Act.

(B) All documents submitted after inspection must be sent to the CBP seaport office that inspected the vessel.

(iv) Attestations are valid for one year from the date of filing and cover nonimmigrant crewmen landing during that period if the master or agent indicates in the manifest that the vessel's crew continue to comply with the conditions in the attestation. When the vessel's master or agent intends to use a previously accepted attestation that is still valid, the master or agent must submit a copy of the notification from the Secretary of Labor that the attestation was accepted and must indicate in the manifest that the vessel continues to comply with the conditions of the attestation.
