
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 258 - LIMITATIONS ON PERFORMANCE OF LONGSHORE WORK BY ALIEN CREWMEN
##### ยง 258.3 Action upon arrival.

(a) The master or agent of the vessel shall state on the manifest at the first port of entry:

(1) Whether or not nonimmigrant crewmen aboard the vessel will perform longshore work at any port before departing the United States; and

(2) If nonimmigrant crewmen will perform longshore work, which exception in section 258 of the Act permits them to do so.

(b) If nonimmigrant crewmen will perform longshore work, the master or agent of the vessel shall present with the manifest any documentation required by 8 CFR 258.2 for the exception invoked.

(c) If, at the time of inspection, the master or agent fails to present the documentation required for the exception invoked, then the vessel is prohibited from using nonimmigrant crewmen to perform longshore work. If crewmen aboard the vessel perform longshore work despite the prohibition, the vessel is subject to fine under section 251(d) of the Act.

(d) The examining immigration officer shall give the master or agent a Receipt for Crew List, Form I-410, on which the officer shall note whether or not nonimmigrant crewmen will do longshore work at any port of call and, if so, under which exception. The officer shall also note which documentation supporting the exception accompanied the manifest, and any failure to present documentation which failure would prohibit crewmen from performing longshore work under the exception that the vessel invoked.

(e) If a vessel's crewmen perform longshore activity not sanctioned by an exception but performed to prevent the imminent destruction of goods or property; severe damage to vessels, docks, or real estate; possible environmental contamination; or possible injury or death to a person, a concise report of the incident shall be made within 14 days of the incident to the Immigration and Naturalization Service seaport office that performed the inspection. If the Service agrees that the situation was one of imminent danger requiring immediate action, no fine will be imposed for the performance of a longshore activity in this isolated instance.

(f) Failure to deliver true and complete information on the manifest or any documentation required to support an exception may result in a fine against the owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer under section 251(d) of the Act.
