
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 280 - IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF FINES
##### ยง 280.11 Notice of intention to fine; procedure.

Notice of Intention to Fine, Form I-79, shall be prepared in triplicate, with one additional copy for each additional person on whom the service of such notice is contemplated. The notice shall be addressed to any or all of the available persons subject to fine. A copy of the notice shall be served by personal service on each such person. If the notice is delivered personally, the person upon whom it is served shall be requested to acknowledge such service by signing his name to the duplicate and triplicate copies. The officer effecting such service shall attest to the service by signing his name thereon and shall indicate thereon the date and place of service. If the person so served refuses to acknowledge service, or if service is made by leaving it at an office or mailing it, the person making such service shall indicate the method and date on the duplicate and triplicate copies of Form I-79, and shall sign his name upon such copies. The duplicate copy shall be retained by the district director of immigration and naturalization or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office and the triplicate copy shall be delivered directly to the district director of customs for the district in which the vessel or aircraft is located, and the district director of customs shall withhold clearance until deposit is made or bond furnished as provided in the Immigration and Nationality Act. If the vessel or aircraft is located in a customs district which is outside the jurisdiction of the office of the Service having jurisdiction over the matter, the triplicate copy shall be forwarded to the office of the Service nearest such customs district for delivery to the district director of customs.
