
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 280 - IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF FINES
##### ยง 280.13 Disposition of case.
###### Answer filed; personal appearance.

(b)Upon receipt of an answer asserting a defense to the allegations in the notice without requesting a personal appearance, or if a personal appearance is requested or directed, the case shall be assigned to an immigration officer. The immigration officer shall prepare a report summarizing the evidence and containing his findings and recommendation. The record, including the report and recommendation of the immigration officer, shall be forwarded to the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office. The district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office shall note on the report of the immigration officer whether he approves or disapproves the recommendation of the immigration officer. The person shall be informed in writing of the decision of the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office and, if his decision is that a fine shall be imposed or that the requested mitigation or remission shall not be granted, of the reasons for such decision. From the decision of the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office an appeal may be taken to the Board as provided in 8 CFR part 1003.
