
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 286 - IMMIGRATION USER FEE
##### ยง 286.5 Remittance and statement procedures.

(a) The air or sea carrier whose ticket stock or document for transportation reflects collection of the fee is responsible for remittance of the fee to the Service. The travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other entity, which issues their own non-carrier related ticket or document for transportation to an air or sea passenger who is not excepted from the fee pursuant to ยง 286.3 of this part, is responsible for remittance of the fee to the Service, unless by contract the carrier will remit the fee.

(b)(1) Fee remittances shall be sent to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, at a designated Treasury depository, for receipt no later than 31 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which the fees are collected, except the fourth quarter payment for fees collected shall be made on the date that is 10 days before the end of the U.S. Government's fiscal year, and the first quarter payment shall include any collections made in the preceding quarter that were not remitted with the previous payment. The fourth quarter payment shall include collections for the months of July and August. The fiscal year referenced is the U.S. Government's fiscal year which begins on October 1 and ends on September 30.

(2) Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and handling charges as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (31 U.S.C. 3717). Refunds by a remitter of fees collected in conjunction with unused tickets or documents for transportation shall be netted against the next subsequent remittance.

(c) Along with the remittance, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, each remitter making such remittance shall attach a statement which sets forth the following:

(1) Name and address;

(2) Taxpayer identification number;

(3) Calendar quarter covered by the payment;

(4) Interest and penalty charges; and

(5) Total amount collected and remitted.

(d) Remittances shall be made in U.S. dollars by check or money order through a U.S. bank, to Assistant Commissioner, Office of Financial Management, INS.
