
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 287 - FIELD OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES
##### ยง 287.11 Pre-enrolled Access Lane.
###### General requirements for Pre-enrolled Access Lane Program.

(b)(1) Participation in the Pre-enrolled Access Lane program is wholly voluntary and failure to apply or denial of an application does not prevent any person from passing through the checkpoint in the regular traffic lanes.

(2) Only United States citizens and members of the classes of aliens which the Commissioner of the Service or her delegates determine to be eligible may enroll in the PAL program. To participate in the PAL program, an applicant must have a permanent or temporary residence in the United States, and must agree to furnish all information requested on the application.

(3) The applicant must agree to all terms and conditions required for use of a Pre-enrolled Access Lane. Immigration, criminal justice information, and law enforcement records and databases will be checked to assist in determining the applicant's eligibility. The Service may require applicants to submit fingerprints, and the Service may provide those fingerprints to Federal, State, and local government agencies for the purpose of determining eligibility to participate in the PAL program.

(4) Any vehicle used in a Pre-enrolled Access Lane must have current approval from the Service for use in the PAL program.

(5) Enrolled participants may be issued an identification document showing authorization to participate in the PAL program, and, if such a document is issued, participants must have it in their possession whenever using the PAL. In addition, alien participants must be in possession of a valid form constituting evidence of alien registration pursuant to ยง 264.1(b) of this chapter at all times while using the PAL.

(6) The Service will install any and all equipment, decals, devices, technology, or methodology it deems necessary on registered vehicles to ensure that only authorized persons and vehicles use the PAL.

(7) All devices, decals, or other equipment, methodology, or technology used to identify persons or vehicles using a Pre-enrolled Access Lane remain the property of the United States Government at all times and must be surrendered upon request of the Service. Enrolled participants must abide by the terms set forth by the Service for use of any device, decal, or other equipment, methodology, or technology. If a vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of, it is the responsibility of the enrolled participant to remove or obliterate any identifying decal or other authorization for participation in the PAL program before or at the time of sale or disposal unless otherwise notified by the Service. If the Service installs an electronic transmitter or similar device on the vehicle, the enrolled participant must have that device removed by the Service at the PAL enrollment center prior to sale or disposal of an authorized vehicle.

(8) Enrolled participants in the PAL program may carry passengers who are not enrolled in the program in their authorized vehicles in the PAL as long as all passengers are United States citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, or rightful holders of valid nonimmigrant United States visas.
