
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 287 - FIELD OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES
##### ยง 287.11 Pre-enrolled Access Lane.
###### Application.

(c)(1) Application for Pre-enrolled Access Lane participation shall be made on Form I-866, Application-Checkpoint Pre-enrolled Access Lane.

(2) Each person wishing to enroll in the Pre-enrolled Access Lane program must submit a separate application.

(3) Applications must be supported by documents establishing identity, United States citizenship or lawful immigration status in the United States, a valid driver's license, and vehicle registration for all vehicles being registered. The Service may require additional documentation where appropriate to substantiate information provided on the application, as well as written permission from the vehicle owner to use any vehicle not owned by the applicant in the PAL.

(4) Each person filing an application may be required to present himself or herself for an interview at a time and place designated by the Service prior to approval of the application.

(5) The Service may inspect any vehicle that a PAL applicant desires to register for use in the PAL to ensure that it does not present evidence of having been used or prepared to be used to smuggle aliens or controlled substances, and the Service must approve all vehicles prior to use in the PAL. The Service may prohibit the use of certain types of vehicles in the PAL for reasons of safety and law enforcement.

(6) An application may be denied by the Chief Patrol Agent having jurisdiction over the PAL enrollment center where the application is filed. Written notice of the decision on the application shall be given to the applicant or mailed by ordinary mail to the applicant's last known address. There is no appeal from a denial, but denial is without prejudice to reapplying for this program. Re-applications following denial or revocation of the privilege to participate in the PAL program will not be considered by the Service until 90 days after the date of denial or revocation.

(7) Registration in the PAL program is limited to individuals who the Service has determined present a low risk of using the PAL for unlawful purposes. Criteria that will be considered in the decision to approve or deny the application include the following: lawful presence in the United States, criminal history and/or evidence of criminality, employment, residency, prior immigration history, possession of a valid driver's license, vehicle type, registration, and inspection.

(8) Applications approved by the Service will entitle the authorized person and the authorized vehicle to use the PAL for 2 years from the date of approval of the application or until authorization is revoked, whichever occurs first.
