
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 287 - FIELD OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES
##### ยง 287.11 Pre-enrolled Access Lane.
###### Violation of conditions of a Pre-enrolled Access Lane and Revocation.

(e)An enrolled participant who violates any condition of the PAL program, or any applicable law or regulation, or who is otherwise determined by an immigration officer to be ineligible to participate in the PAL program, may have his or her authorization and the authorization of his or her vehicle(s) revoked by the Chief Patrol Agent with jurisdiction over the PAL enrollment center where the application is filed and may be subject to other applicable sanctions, such as criminal and/or civil penalties, removal, and/or possible seizure of goods and/or vehicles. If an authorized vehicle is sold, stolen, or otherwise disposed of, authorization to use that vehicle in the PAL is automatically revoked. Within 24 hours of when an authorized vehicle is stolen, or within 7 days of when such vehicle is sold, or otherwise disposed of or the license plates are changed, enrolled participants must give, in person or by facsimile transmission, written notice of such occurrence to the PAL enrollment center at which their application was filed. Failure to do so will result in the automatic revocation of the authorization to use the PAL of the person who registered such vehicle in the PAL program. Unless revocation is automatic, the Service will give notice of revocation to the enrolled PAL participant or mail it by ordinary mail to his or her last known address. However, written notification is not necessary prior to revocation of the privilege to participate in the PAL program. There is no appeal from the revocation of an authorization to participate in the PAL program.
