
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 299 - IMMIGRATION FORMS
##### ยง 299.4 Reproduction of Public Use Forms by public and private entities.
###### Requirements for electronic generation.

(b)Public or private entities may electronically generate forms required for applying for a specific benefit, in compliance with the immigration and naturalization regulations, at their own expense. This includes forms that have been made available for purchase by the Superintendent of Documents, as listed in ยง 299.3 provided that each form satisfies the following requirements:

(1) An electronic reproduction must be complete, containing all questions which appear on the official form. The wording and punctuation of all data elements and identifying information must match exactly. No data elements may be added or deleted. The sequence and format for each item on the form must be replicated to mirror the authorized agency form. Each item must be printed on the same page in the same location. Likewise, multiple-part sets may be printed as single sheets provided that the destination of the carbon copy is clearly identified on the bottom of the form. An electronic reproduction of a multi page form does not need to match the head-to-head or head-to-foot printing configuration of the official form. In the case of the Form I-20 A-B/I-20ID, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status-For Academic and Language Students, private entities may generate this form in single-page format rather than double-sided format, provided that the student's name, school, and date of birth is printed in a shaded box on the top of page 4 of the form, using the same type size and font style as the body of the form.

(2) The final form must match the design, format, and dimensions of the official form. All blocks must remain the same size and lines must remain the same length. No variations will be permissible.

(c) The accuracy of electronically generated forms is the responsibility of the private entities. Changes to existing forms, as announced by the Service, must be promptly incorporated into the private entity software program application. Deviations from the aforementioned standards may result in the return or denial of the applicant's application/petition for a particular benefit.

(d) Electronic printers that provide for near-letter-quality documents should be used to generate electronic forms. Dot matrix printers that are only capable of producing draft quality documents should not be used for form generation, but may be used for the entry of data in a preprinted form where appropriate.

(e) Any form with poor print quality or other defect which renders it illegible, difficult to read, or displays added or missing data elements, will be rejected by the Service. Any problems regarding the acceptability of a specific electronic version of a particular Service form may be brought to the attention of the Director, Policy Directives and Instructions Branch, 425 "I" Street, NW., Room 4034, Washington, DC 20536, telephone number (202) 514-3048.
