
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Nationality Regulations
#### PART 310 - NATURALIZATION AUTHORITY
##### ยง 310.3 Administration of the oath of allegiance.

(a) An applicant for naturalization may elect, at the time of filing of, or at the examination on, the application, to have the oath of allegiance and renunciation under section 337(a) of the Act administered in a public ceremony conducted by the Service or by any court described in section 310(b) of the Act, subject to section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act.

(b) The jurisdiction of all such courts specified to administer the oath of allegiance shall extend only to those persons who are resident within the respective jurisdictional limits of such courts, except as otherwise provided in section 316(f)(2) of the Act. Persons who temporarily reside within the jurisdictional limits of a court in order to pursue an application properly filed pursuant to section 319(b), 328(a), or 329 of the Act or section 405 of the Immigration Act of 1990 are not subject to the exclusive jurisdiction provisions of section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act.

(c)(1) A court that wishes to exercise exclusive jurisdiction to administer the oath of allegiance for the 45-day period specified in section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act shall notify, in writing, the district director of the Service office having jurisdiction over the place in which the court is located, of the court's intent to exercise such exclusive jurisdiction.

(2) At least 60 days prior to the holding of any oath administration ceremony referred to in ยง 337.8 of this chapter, the clerk of court shall give written notice to the appropriate district director of the time, date, and place of such ceremony and of the number of persons who may be accommodated.

(d) A court that has notified the Service pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall have exclusive authority to administer the oath of allegiance to persons residing within its jurisdiction for a period of 45 days beginning on the date that the Service notifies the clerk of court of the applicant's eligibility for naturalization. Such exclusive authority shall be effective only if on the date the Service notifies the clerk of court of the applicant's eligibility, the court has notified the Service of the day or days during such 45-day period on which the court has scheduled oath administration ceremonies available to the applicant. The Service must submit the notification of the applicant's eligibility to the clerk of court within 10 days of the approval of the application pursuant to ยง 337.8 of this chapter.
