
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Nationality Regulations
#### PART 337 - OATH OF ALLEGIANCE
##### ยง 337.3 Expedited administration of oath of allegiance.

(a) An applicant may be granted an expedited oath administration ceremony by either the court or USCIS upon demonstrating sufficient cause. In determining whether to grant an expedited oath administration ceremony, the court or USCIS shall consider special circumstances of a compelling or humanitarian nature. Special circumstances may include but are not limited to:

(1) The serious illness of the applicant or a member of the applicant's family;

(2) Permanent disability of the applicant sufficiently incapacitating as to prevent the applicant's personal appearance at a scheduled ceremony;

(3) The developmental disability or advanced age of the applicant which would make appearance at a scheduled ceremony inappropriate; or

(4) Urgent or compelling circumstances relating to travel or employment determined by the court or USCIS to be sufficiently meritorious to warrant special consideration.

(b) Courts exercising exclusive authority may either hold an expedited oath administration ceremony or refer the applicant to USCIS in order for either the Immigration Judge or USCIS to conduct an oath administration ceremony, if an expedited judicial oath administration ceremony is impractical. The court shall inform USCIS in writing of its decision to grant the applicant an expedited oath administration ceremony and that the court has relinquished exclusive jurisdiction as to that applicant.

(c) All requests for expedited administration of the oath of allegiance shall be made in writing to either the court or USCIS. Such requests shall contain sufficient information to substantiate the claim of special circumstances to permit either the court or USCIS to properly exercise the discretionary authority to grant the relief sought. The court or USCIS may seek verification of the validity of the information provided in the request. If the applicant submits a written request to USCIS, but is awaiting an oath administration ceremony by a court pursuant to ยง 337.8, USCIS promptly shall provide the court with a copy of the request without reaching a decision on whether to grant or deny the request.
