
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 204 - IMMIGRANT PETITIONS
##### Subpart A - Immigrant Visa Petitions
###### ยง 204.3 Orphan cases under section 101(b)(1)(F) of the Act (non-Hague Adoption Convention cases).
####### Advanced processing application approved.

(3)(i) If the advanced processing application is approved:

(A) The prospective adoptive parents will be advised in writing. A notice of approval expires 15 months after the date on which USCIS received the FBI response on the applicant's, and any additional adult member of the household's, biometrics, unless approval is revoked. If USCIS received the responses on different days, the 15-month period begins on the earliest response date. The notice of approval will specify the expiration date.

(B) USCIS may extend the validity period for the approval of a Form I-600A as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section or if requested in accordance with 8 CFR 106.2(a)(23). During this time, the prospective adoptive parents may file an orphan petition for one orphan without fee.

(C) If the Form I-600A approval is for more than one orphan, the prospective adoptive parents may file a petition for each of the additional children, to the maximum number approved.

(D) If the orphans are birth siblings, no additional fee is required. If the orphans are not birth siblings, an additional fee is required for each orphan beyond the first orphan.

(E) It does not guarantee that the orphan petition will be approved.

(ii) In the case of an outbreak affecting a public health or other emergency:

(A) The USCIS Director or his or her designee, may extend the validity period of the approval of the advance processing application, either in an individual case or for a class of cases if the Director or designee determines that the ability of a prospective adoptive parent to timely file a petition has been adversely affected.

(B) An extension of the validity of the approval of the advance processing application may be subject to such conditions as the USCIS Director, or officer designated by the USCIS Director, may establish.
