
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 1003 - EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
##### Subpart E - List of Pro Bono Legal Service Providers
###### ยง 1003.62 Eligibility.
####### Organizations recognized under part 1292.

(a)An organization that is recognized under part 1292 of this chapter is eligible to apply to have its name included on the List if the organization meets the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The organization will provide a minimum of 50 hours per year of pro bono legal services to individuals at each immigration court location where the organization intends to be included on the List, in cases where an attorney or representative of the organization, or an attorney or representative to whom the organization has referred the case for pro bono representation, files a Form EOIR-28 Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative before the Immigration Court (EOIR-28 Notice of Entry of Appearance). When an attorney or representative of the organization represents the individual pro bono before the immigration court location, the organization may count, toward the 50-hour requirement, the attorney's or representative's out-of-court preparation time and in-court time. When the organization refers the case for pro bono legal services outside the organization, the organization may count, toward the 50-hour requirement, time the organization's attorneys and representatives spent providing pro bono legal services, for example conducting an intake interview or mentoring the attorney or representative to whom the case is referred. However, the organization is not permitted to count the time of the attorney or representative to whom the case was referred.

(2) The organization has on its staff at least one attorney, as defined in ยง 1292.1(a)(1) of this chapter, or at least one representative accredited under part 1292 of this chapter, to practice before the immigration courts and the Board of Immigration Appeals.

(3) No attorney or representative who will provide pro bono legal services on the organization's behalf in cases pending before EOIR is the subject of an order of disbarment under ยง 1003.101(a)(1) or suspension under ยง 1003.101(a)(2).
