
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1205 - REVOCATION OF APPROVAL OF PETITIONS
##### ยง 1205.1 Automatic revocation.
###### Petition for Pub. L. 97-359 Amerasian.

(ii)(A) Upon formal notice of withdrawal filed by the petitioner with the officer who approved the petition.

(B) Upon the death of the beneficiary.

(C) Upon the death or bankruptcy of the sponsor who executed Form I-361, Affidavit of Financial Support and Intent to Petition for Legal Custody for Pub. L. 97-359 Amerasian. In that event, a new petition may be filed in the beneficiary's behalf with the documentary evidence relating to sponsorship and, in the case of a beneficiary under 18 years of age, placement. If the new petition is approved, it will be given the priority date of the previously approved petition.

(D) Upon the death or substitution of the petitioner if other than the beneficiary or sponsor. However, if the petitioner dies or no longer desires or is able to proceed with the petition, and another person 18 years of age or older, an emancipated minor, or a corporation incorporated in the United States desires to be substituted for the deceased or original petitioner, a written request may be submitted to the Service or American consular office where the petition is located to reinstate the petition and restore the original priority date.

(E) Upon the beneficiary's reaching the age of 21 when the beneficiary has been accorded classification under section 201(b) of the Act. Provided that all requirements of section 204(f) of the Act continue to be met, however, the petition is to be considered valid for purposes of according the beneficiary preference classification under section 203(a)(1) of the Act if the beneficiary remains unmarried or under section 203(a)(3) if the beneficiary marries.

(F) Upon the beneficiary's marriage when the beneficiary has been accorded classification under section 201(b) or section 203(a)(1) of the Act. Provided that all requirements of section 204(f) of the Act continue to be met, however, the petition is to be considered valid for purposes of according the beneficiary preference classification under section 203(a)(3) of the Act.
