
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1208 - PROCEDURES FOR ASYLUM AND WITHHOLDING OF REMOVAL
##### Subpart A - Asylum and Withholding of Removal
###### ยง 1208.21 Admission of the asylee's spouse and children.
####### Spouse or child outside the United States.

(d)When a spouse or child of an alien granted asylum is outside the United States, the asylee may request accompanying or following-to-join benefits for his/her spouse or child(ren) by filing a separate Form I-730 for each qualifying family member with the designated Service office, setting forth the full name, relationship, date and place of birth, and current location of each such person. A recent photograph of each derivative must accompany the Form I-730. The photograph must clearly identify the derivative, and will be made part of the derivative's immigration record for identification purposes. A separate Form I-730 for each qualifying family member must be filed before February 28, 2000, or within 2 years of the date in which the asylee was granted asylum status, whichever is later, unless the Service determines that the filing period should be extended for humanitarian reasons. When the Form I-730 is approved, the Service will notify the asylee of such approval on Form I-797. The approved Form I-730 shall be forwarded by the Service to the Department of State for delivery to the American Embassy or Consulate having jurisdiction over the area in which the asylee's spouse or child is located. The approval of the Form I-730 shall remain valid for the duration of the relationship to the asylee and, in the case of a child, while the child is under 21 years of age and unmarried, provided also that the principal's status has not been revoked. However, the approved Form I-730 will cease to confer immigration benefits after it has been used by the beneficiary for admission to the United States as a derivative of an asylee.
