
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 1212.1 Documentary requirements for nonimmigrants.
###### Canadian nationals, and aliens having a common nationality with nationals of Canada or with British subjects in Bermuda, Bahamian nationals or British subjects resident in Bahamas, Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos Islands.

(a)A visa is not required of a Canadian national in any case. A passport is not required of such national except after a visit outside of the Western Hemisphere. A visa is not required of an alien having a common nationality with Canadian nationals or with British subjects in Bermuda, who has his or her residence in Canada or Bermuda. A passport is not required of such alien except after a visit outside of the Western Hemisphere. A visa and a passport are required of a Bahamian national or a British subject who has his residence in the Bahamas except that a visa is not required of such an alien who, prior to or at the time of embarkation for the United States on a vessel or aircraft, satisfied the examining U.S. immigration officer at the Bahamas, that he is clearly and beyond a doubt entitled to admission in all other respects. A visa is not required of a British subject who has his residence in, and arrives directly from, the Cayman Islands or the Turks and Caicos Islands and who presents a current certificate from the Clerk of Court of the Cayman Islands or the Turks and Caicos Islands indicating no criminal record.
