
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 1212.4 Applications for the exercise of discretion under section 212(d)(1) and 212(d)(3).
###### Alien witnesses and informants,Waivers under section 212(d)(1) of the Act.

(i)-(1)Upon the application of a federal or state law enforcement authority ("LEA"), which shall include a state or federal court or United States Attorney's Office, pursuant to the filing of Form I-854, Inter-Agency Alien Witness and Informant Record, for nonimmigrant classification described in section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act, the Commissioner shall determine whether a ground of exclusion exists with respect to the alien for whom classification is sought and, if so, whether it is in the national interest to exercise the discretion to waive the ground of excludability, other than section 212(a)(3)(E) of the Act. The Commissioner may at any time revoke a waiver previously authorized under section 212(d)(1) of the Act. In the event the Commissioner decides to revoke a previously authorized waiver for an S nonimmigrant, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to the decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to revoke.
