
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 1212.7 Waiver of certain grounds of inadmissibility.
###### Failure to fulfill the three-year employment contract due to extenuating circumstances.

(iv)A foreign medical graduate who fails to meet the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver under section 214(l) of the Act and this paragraph will once again become subject to the 2-year requirement under section 212(e) of the Act.

Under section 214(l)(1)(B) of the Act, however, the Service, in the exercise of discretion, may excuse early termination of the foreign medical graduate's 3-year period of employment with the health care facility named in the waiver application due to extenuating circumstances. Extenuating circumstances may include, but are not limited to, closure of the health care facility or hardship to the alien. In determining whether to excuse such early termination of employment, the Service shall base its decision on the specific facts of each case. In all cases, the burden of establishing eligibility for a favorable exercise of discretion rests with the foreign medical graduate. Depending on the circumstances, closure of the health care facility named in the waiver application may, but need not, be considered an extenuating circumstance excusing early termination of employment. Under no circumstances will a foreign medical graduate be eligible to apply for change of status to another nonimmigrant category, for an immigrant visa or for status as a lawful permanent resident prior to completing the requisite 3-year period of employment for a health care facility located in an HHS-designated shortage area.
