
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1212 - DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS: NONIMMIGRANTS; WAIVERS; ADMISSION OF CERTAIN INADMISSIBLE ALIENS; PAROLE
##### ยง 1212.16 Applications for exercise of discretion relating to T nonimmigrant status.
###### Treatment of waiver application.

(b)(1) The Service shall determine whether a ground of inadmissibility exists with respect to the alien applying for T nonimmigrant status. If a ground of inadmissibility is found, the Service shall determine if it is in the national interest to exercise discretion to waive the ground of inadmissibility, except for grounds of inadmissibility based upon sections 212(a)(3), 212(a)(10)(C) and 212(a)(10)(E) of the Act, which the Commissioner may not waive. Special consideration will be given to the granting of a waiver of a ground of inadmissibility where the activities rendering the alien inadmissible were caused by or incident to the victimization described under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Act.

(2) In the case of applicants inadmissible on criminal and related grounds under section 212(a)(2) of the Act, the Service will only exercise its discretion in exceptional cases unless the criminal activities rendering the alien inadmissible were caused by or were incident to the victimization described under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Act.

(3) An application for waiver of a ground of inadmissibility for T nonimmigrant status (other than under section 212(a)(6) of the Act) will be granted only in exceptional cases when the ground of inadmissibility would prevent or limit the ability of the applicant to adjust to permanent resident status after the conclusion of 3 years.

(4) The Service shall have sole discretion to grant or deny a waiver, and there shall be no appeal of a decision to deny a waiver. However, nothing in this paragraph (b) is intended to prevent an applicant from re-filing a request for a waiver of a ground of inadmissibility in appropriate cases.
