
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1214 - REVIEW OF NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES
##### ยง 1214.2 Review of alien victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons; aliens in pending immigration proceedings.
###### Applications for T visas while in proceedings.

(a)Individuals who believe they are victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and who are in pending immigration proceedings must inform DHS if they intend to apply for T nonimmigrant status under this section. With the concurrence of DHS counsel, a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons in proceedings before an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals may request that the proceedings be administratively closed (or that a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider be indefinitely continued) in order to allow the alien to pursue an application for T nonimmigrant status with DHS. If the alien appears eligible for T nonimmigrant status, the immigration judge or the Board, whichever has jurisdiction, may grant such a request to administratively close the proceeding or continue a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider indefinitely. In the event DHS finds an alien ineligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, DHS may recommence proceedings that have been administratively closed by filing a motion to re-calendar with the immigration court or a motion to reinstate with the Board. If the alien is in DHS custody pending the completion of immigration proceedings, DHS may continue to detain the alien until a decision has been rendered on the application. An alien who is in custody and requests bond or a bond redetermination will be governed by the provisions of part 236 of this chapter.
