
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1238 - EXPEDITED REMOVAL OF AGGRAVATED FELONS
##### § 1238.1 Proceedings under section 238(b) of the Act.
###### Notice.

(2)(i) Removal proceedings under section 238(b) of the Act shall commence upon personal service of the Notice of Intent upon the alien, as prescribed by §§ 103.5a(a)(2) and 103.5a(c)(2) of 8 CFR chapter I. The Notice of Intent shall set forth the preliminary determinations and inform the alien of the Service's intent to issue a Form I-851A, Final Administrative Removal Order, without a hearing before an immigration judge. The Notice of Intent shall constitute the charging document. The Notice of Intent shall include allegations of fact and conclusions of law. It shall advise that the alien: has the privilege of being represented, at no expense to the government, by counsel of the alien's choosing, as long as counsel is authorized to practice in removal proceedings; may request withholding of removal to a particular country if he or she fears persecution or torture in that country; may inspect the evidence supporting the Notice of Intent; may rebut the charges within 10 calendar days after service of such Notice (or 13 calendar days if service of the Notice was by mail).

(ii) The Notice of Intent also shall advise the alien that he or she may designate in writing, within the rebuttal period, the country to which he or she chooses to be deported in accordance with section 241 of the Act, in the event that a Final Administrative Removal Order is issued, and that the Service will honor such designation only to the extent permitted under the terms, limitations, and conditions of section 241 of the Act.

(iii) The Service must determine that the person served with the Notice of Intent is the person named on the notice.

(iv) The Service shall provide the alien with a list of available free legal services programs qualified under 8 CFR part 1003 and organizations recognized pursuant to 8 CFR part 1292, located within the district or sector where the Notice of Intent is issued.

(v) The Service must either provide the alien with a written translation of the Notice of Intent or explain the contents of the Notice of Intent to the alien in the alien's native language or in a language that the alien understands.
