
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1240 - PROCEEDINGS TO DETERMINE REMOVABILITY OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Removal Proceedings
###### § 1240.11 Ancillary matters, applications.
####### pro bono

(iii) Advise the alien of the privilege of being represented by counsel at no expense to the government and of the consequences, pursuant to section 208(d)(6) of the Act, of knowingly filing a frivolous application for asylum. The immigration judge shall provide to the alien a list of persons who have indicated their availability to represent aliens in asylum proceedings on abasis.

(2) An application for asylum or withholding of removal must be filed with the Immigration Court, pursuant to § 1208.4(b) of this chapter. Upon receipt of an application, the Immigration Court may forward a copy to the Department of State pursuant to § 1208.11 of this chapter and shall calendar the case for a hearing. The reply, if any, from the Department of State, unless classified under an applicable Executive Order, shall be given to both the alien and to DHS counsel and shall be included in the record.

(3) Applications for asylum and withholding of removal so filed will be decided by the immigration judge pursuant to the requirements and standards established in 8 CFR part 1208 of this chapter after an evidentiary hearing to resolve factual issues in dispute. An evidentiary hearing extending beyond issues related to the basis for a mandatory denial of the application pursuant to § 1208.14 or § 1208.16 of this chapter is not necessary once the immigration judge has determined that such a denial is required.

(i) Evidentiary hearings on applications for asylum or withholding of removal will be open to the public unless the alien expressly requests that the hearing be closed pursuant to § 3.27 of this chapter. The immigration judge shall inquire whether the alien requests such closure.

(ii) Nothing in this section is intended to limit the authority of the immigration judge to properly control the scope of any evidentiary hearing.

(iii) During the removal hearing, the alien shall be examined under oath on his or her application and may present evidence and witnesses in his or her own behalf. The alien has the burden of establishing that he or she is a refugee as defined in section 101(a)(42) of the Act pursuant to the standards set forth in § 1208.13 of this chapter.

(iv) DHS counsel may call witnesses and present evidence for the record, including information classified under the applicable Executive Order, provided the immigration judge or the Board has determined that such information is relevant to the hearing. When the immigration judge receives such classified information, he or she shall inform the alien. The agency that provides the classified information to the immigration judge may provide an unclassified summary of the information for release to the alien, whenever it determines it can do so consistently with safeguarding both the classified nature of the information and its sources. The summary should be as detailed as possible, in order that the alien may have an opportunity to offer opposing evidence. A decision based in whole or in part on such classified information shall state whether such information is material to the decision.

(4) The decision of an immigration judge to grant or deny asylum or withholding of removal shall be communicated to the alien and to the DHS counsel. An adverse decision shall state why asylum or withholding of removal was denied.
