
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1240 - PROCEEDINGS TO DETERMINE REMOVABILITY OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Removal Proceedings
###### ยง 1240.11 Ancillary matters, applications.
####### U.S.-Canada safe third country agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022.

(g)(1) The immigration judge has authority to apply section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, relating to a determination that an alien may be removed to Canada pursuant to the 2002 U.S.-Canada Agreement ("Agreement"), in the case of an alien who is subject to the terms of the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, and is placed in proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act. In an appropriate case, the immigration judge shall determine whether under that Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, the alien should be returned to Canada, or whether the alien should be permitted to pursue asylum or other protection in the United States.

(2) An alien described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section is ineligible to apply for asylum, pursuant to section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, unless the immigration judge determines, by preponderance of the evidence, that:

(i) The Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, does not apply to the alien or does not preclude the alien from applying for asylum in the United States; or

(ii) The alien qualifies for an exception to the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, as set forth in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(3) The immigration judge shall apply the applicable regulations in deciding whether the alien qualifies for any exception under the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, that would permit the United States to exercise authority over the alien's asylum claim. The exceptions under the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, are codified at 8 CFR 208.30(e)(6)(iii). The immigration judge shall not review, consider, or decide any issues pertaining to any discretionary determination on whether the alien should be permitted to pursue an asylum claim in the United States notwithstanding the general terms of the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, as such discretionary public interest determinations are reserved to DHS. However, an alien in removal proceedings who is otherwise ineligible to apply for asylum under the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, may apply for asylum if DHS files a written notice in the proceedings before the immigration judge that it has decided in the public interest to allow the alien to pursue claims for asylum or withholding of removal.

(4) An alien who is found to be ineligible to apply for asylum under section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act is ineligible to apply for withholding of removal pursuant to section 241(b)(3) of the Act and the Convention Against Torture. However, the alien may apply for any other relief from removal for which the alien may be eligible. If an alien who is subject to the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, and section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act is ordered removed, the alien shall be ordered removed to Canada, in which the alien will be able to pursue his or her claims for asylum or protection against persecution or torture under the laws of Canada.
