
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1240 - PROCEEDINGS TO DETERMINE REMOVABILITY OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Removal Proceedings
###### ยง 1240.17 Removal proceedings where the respondent has a credible fear of persecution or torture.
####### Respondent-requested continuances and filings extensions.

(2)(i) The immigration judge may, for good cause shown, grant the respondent continuances and extend the respondent's filing deadlines. Each such continuance or extension shall not exceed 10 calendar days, unless the immigration judge determines that a longer period is more efficient. The immigration judge may not grant the respondent continuances or extensions for good cause that cause a merits hearing to occur more than 90 days after the master calendar hearing.

(ii) The immigration judge may grant the respondent continuances or extensions that cause a merits hearing to occur more than 90 days after the master calendar hearing only if the respondent demonstrates that the continuance or extension is necessary to ensure a fair proceeding and the need for the continuance or extension exists despite the respondent's exercise of due diligence. The length of any such continuance or extension shall be limited to the time necessary to ensure a fair proceeding. The immigration judge may not grant the respondent continuances or extensions pursuant to this paragraph (h)(2)(ii) that cause a merits hearing to occur more than 135 days after the master calendar hearing.

(iii) The immigration judge may grant the respondent continuances or extensions notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section if the respondent demonstrates that failure to grant the continuance or extension would be contrary to statute or the Constitution.

(iv) In calculating the delay to a merits hearing for purposes of applying paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the immigration judge shall exclude any continuances, hearing delays, or filing extensions issued pursuant to paragraphs (h)(3) and (4) of this section.
