
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1240 - PROCEEDINGS TO DETERMINE REMOVABILITY OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Removal Proceedings
###### ยง 1240.17 Removal proceedings where the respondent has a credible fear of persecution or torture.
####### Decision.

(i)(1) Where the asylum officer did not grant asylum and did not determine that the respondent was eligible for withholding of removal under the Act or for withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture based on the record before USCIS, the immigration judge shall adjudicate, de novo, the respondent's applications for asylum and, if necessary, for withholding of removal under the Act, and withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section, where the asylum officer did not grant asylum but determined the respondent eligible for withholding of removal under the Act, or for withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture, the immigration judge shall adjudicate, de novo, the respondent's application for asylum. If the immigration judge subsequently denies asylum and enters a removal order, the immigration judge shall give effect to the protection(s) for which the asylum officer determined the applicant eligible, unless DHS has demonstrated, through evidence or testimony that specifically pertains to the respondent and was not in the record of proceedings for the USCIS asylum merits interview, that the respondent is not eligible for such protection(s). The immigration judge shall also grant any additional protection(s) for which the immigration judge finds the applicant eligible. DHS shall not be permitted to appeal to the Board the grant of any protection(s) for which the asylum officer determined the respondent eligible, except to argue that the immigration judge should have denied the application(s) based on the evidence allowed under this paragraph (i)(2).

(3) Where the respondent has requested voluntary departure in the alternative to, or in lieu of, asylum and related protection, the immigration judge shall adjudicate this application where necessary.
