
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1240 - PROCEEDINGS TO DETERMINE REMOVABILITY OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - Removal Proceedings
###### ยง 1240.17 Removal proceedings where the respondent has a credible fear of persecution or torture.
####### Exceptions.

(k)The provisions in paragraphs (f) through (h) of this section shall not apply in any of the following circumstances:

(1) The respondent was under the age of 18 on the date the NTA was issued, except where the respondent is in removal proceedings with one or more adult family members.

(2) The respondent has produced evidence of prima facie eligibility for relief or protection other than asylum, withholding of removal under the Act, withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture, or voluntary departure, and the respondent is seeking to apply for, or has applied for, such relief or protection.

(3) The respondent has produced evidence that supports a prima facie showing that the respondent is not subject to removal as charged (including under any additional or substitute charges of removal brought by DHS pursuant to ยง 1240.10(e)), and the immigration judge determines, under ยง 1240.10(d), that the issue of whether the respondent is subject to removal cannot be resolved simultaneously with the adjudication of the respondent's applications for asylum, withholding of removal under the Act, or withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture.

(4) The immigration judge, pursuant to ยง 1240.10(f), finds the respondent subject to removal to a country other than the country or countries in which the respondent claimed a fear of persecution, torture, or both before the asylum officer and the respondent claims a fear of persecution, torture, or both in that alternative country or countries.

(5) The case has been reopened or remanded following the immigration judge's order.

(6) The respondent has exhibited indicia of mental incompetency.
