
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1240 - PROCEEDINGS TO DETERMINE REMOVABILITY OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart H - Applications for Suspension of Deportation or Special Rule Cancellation of Removal Under Section 203 of Pub. L. 105-100
###### ยง 1240.67 Procedure for interview before an asylum officer.
####### Interview.

(b)(1) The asylum officer shall conduct the interview in a non-adversarial manner and, except at the request of the applicant, separate and apart from the general public. The purpose of the interview shall be to elicit all relevant and useful information bearing on the applicant's eligibility for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal. If the applicant has an asylum application pending with the Service, the asylum officer may also elicit information relating to the application for asylum in accordance with ยง 1208.9 of this chapter. At the time of the interview, the applicant must provide complete information regarding the applicant's identity, including name, date and place of birth, and nationality, and may be required to register this identity electronically or through any other means designated by the Attorney General.

(2) The applicant may have counsel or a representative present, may present witnesses, and may submit affidavits of witnesses and other evidence.

(3) An applicant unable to proceed with the interview in English must provide, at no expense to the Service, a competent interpreter fluent in both English and a language in which the applicant is fluent. The interpreter must be at least 18 years of age. The following individuals may not serve as the applicant's interpreter: the applicant's attorney or representative of record; a witness testifying on the applicant's behalf; or, if the applicant also has an asylum application pending with the Service, a representative or employee of the applicant's country of nationality, or, if stateless, country of last habitual residence. Failure without good cause to comply with this paragraph may be considered a failure to appear for the interview for purposes of ยง 1240.68.

(4) The asylum officer shall have authority to administer oaths, verify the identity of the applicant (including through the use of electronic means), verify the identity of any interpreter, present and receive evidence, and question the applicant and any witnesses.

(5) Upon completion of the interview, the applicant or the applicant's representative shall have an opportunity to make a statement or comment on the evidence presented. The asylum officer may, in the officer's discretion, limit the length of such statement or comment and may require its submission in writing. Upon completion of the interview, and except as otherwise provided by the asylum officer, the applicant shall be informed of the requirement to appear in person to receive and to acknowledge receipt of the decision and any other accompanying material at a time and place designated by the asylum officer.

(6) The asylum officer shall consider evidence submitted by the applicant with the application, as well as any evidence submitted by the applicant before or at the interview. As a matter of discretion, the asylum officer may grant the applicant a brief extension of time following an interview, during which the applicant may submit additional evidence.
