
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1244 - TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS FOR NATIONALS OF DESIGNATED STATES
##### ยง 1244.17 Annual registration.

(a) Aliens granted Temporary Protected Status must register annually with the INS designated office having jurisdiction over their place of residence. Such registration will apply to nationals of those foreign states designated or redesignated for more than one year by the Attorney General pursuant to section 244(b) of the Act. Registration may be accomplished by mailing or submitting in person, depending on the practice in place at the INS designated office, completed Forms I-821 and I-765 within the thirty (30) day period prior to the anniversary of the grant of Temporary Protected Status (inclusive of such anniversary date). Form I-821 will be filed without fee. Form I-765 will be filed with fee only if the alien is requesting employment authorization. Completing the block on the I-821 attesting to the continued maintenance of the conditions of eligibility will generally preclude the need for supporting documents or evidence. The Service, however, reserves the right to request additional information and/or documentation on a case-by-case basis.

(b) Unless the Service determines otherwise, registration by mail shall suffice to meet the alien's registration requirements. However, as part of the registration process, an alien will generally have to appear in person in order to secure a renewal of employment authorization unless the Service determines that employment authorization will be extended in another fashion due to operational need. The Service may also request that an alien appear in person as part of the registration process. In such cases, failure to appear without good cause shall be deemed a failure to register under this chapter.

(c) Failure to register without good cause will result in the withdrawal of the alien's Temporary Protected Status.
