
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.1 Eligibility.
###### Description of qualifying employment.

(v)Qualifying employment as a registered nurse may have taken place at any time before the alien files the application for adjustment of status. It may have occurred before, on, or after the enactment of Public Law 101-238. All qualifying employment must have occurred in the United States. The qualifying employment as a registered nurse may have occurred while the alien was in any immigration status, provided that the alien had been admitted in or changed to H-1 status for the purpose of performing services as a registered nurse on or before September 1, 1989, and had not thereafter changed from H-1 status to any other status before September 1, 1989. The employment need not have been continuous, provided the applicant can establish that he or she engaged in qualifying employment for a total of three or more years. Qualifying employment may include periods when the applicant possessed a provisional, temporary, interim, or other permit or license authorizing the applicant to perform services as a registered nurse; provided the license or permit was issued or recognized by the State Board of Nursing of the state in which the employment was performed. Qualifying employment may not include periods when the applicant performed duties as a registered nurse in violation of any state law regulating the employment of registered nurses in that state.
