
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.11 Adjustment of aliens in S nonimmigrant classification.
###### Decision on request to allow adjustment of S nonimmigrant.

(4)The Commissioner shall make the final decision on a request to allow an S nonimmigrant to apply for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.

(i) In the event the Commissioner decides to deny an application on Form I-854 to allow an S nonimmigrant to apply for adjustment of status, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deny.

(ii) Upon approval of the request on Form I-854, the Commissioner shall forward a copy of the approved form to the Assistant Attorney General and the S nonimmigrant, notifying them that the S nonimmigrant may proceed to file Form I-485 and request adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident, and that, to be eligible for adjustment of status, the nonimmigrant must otherwise:

(A) Meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, if requesting adjustment as a qualified family member of the certified principal S nonimmigrant witness or informant;

(B) Be admissible to the United States as an immigrant, unless the ground of inadmissibility has been waived;

(C) Establish eligibility for adjustment of status under all provisions of section 245 of the Act, unless the basis for ineligibility has been waived; and

(D) Properly file with his or her Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, the approved Form I-854.
