
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.13 Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Nicaragua and Cuba under Public Law 105-100.
###### Secondary evidence.

(f)If the primary evidence required in paragraph (e)(4), (e)(9) or (e)(10 of this section is unavailable, church or school records, or other secondary evidence pertinent to the facts in issue, may be submitted. If such documents are unavailable, affidavits may be submitted. The applicant may submit as many types of secondary evidence as necessary to establish the birth, marriage, or other event. Documentary evidence establishing that primary evidence is unavailable must accompany secondary evidence of birth or marriage in the home country. In adjudicating the application for adjustment of status under section 202 of Public Law 105-100, the Service or immigration judge shall determine the weight to be given such secondary evidence. Secondary evidence may not be submitted in lieu of the documentation specified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section. However, subject to verification by the Service, if the documentation specified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) is already contained in the Service's file relating to the applicant, the applicant may submit an affidavit to that effect in lieu of the actual documentation.
