
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.13 Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Nicaragua and Cuba under Public Law 105-100.
###### Filing.

(g)The application period begins on June 22, 1998. To benefit from the provisions of section 202 of Public Law 105-100, an alien must properly file an application for adjustment of status before April 1, 2000. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, all applications for the benefits of section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100 must be submitted by mail to: USINS Texas Service Center, P.O. Box 851804, Mesquite, TX 75185-1804. All applications must be accompanied by either the correct fee as specified in 8 CFR 103.7 and 8 CFR part 106; or a request for a fee waiver in accordance with 8 CFR 103.7 and 8 CFR part 106. An application received by the Service or Immigration Court before April 1, 2000, that has been properly signed and executed and for which a waiver of the filing fee has been requested shall be regarded as having been filed before the statutory deadline regardless of whether the fee waiver request is denied provided that the applicant submits the required fee within 30 days of the date of any notice that the fee waiver request has been denied. In a case over which the Board has jurisdiction, an application received by the Board before April 1, 2000, that has been properly signed and executed shall be considered filed before the statutory deadline without payment of the fee or submission of a fee waiver request. Upon demand by the Board, the payment of the fee or a request for a fee waiver shall be made upon submission of the application to the Immigration Court in accordance with 8 CFR 1240.11(f). If a request for a fee waiver is denied, the application shall be considered as having been properly filed with the Immigration Court before the statutory deadline provided that the applicant submits the required fee within 30 days of the date of any notice that the fee waiver request has been denied. After proper filing of the application, the Service will notify the applicant to appear for fingerprinting as prescribed in ยง 103.2(e) of 8 CFR chapter I.
