
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.13 Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Nicaragua and Cuba under Public Law 105-100.
###### Interview.

(i)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (i)(2), and (i)(3) of this section, all applicants for adjustment of status under section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100 must be personally interviewed by an immigration officer at a local office of the Service. In any case in which the director of the Texas Service Center determines that an interview of the applicant is necessary, that director shall forward the case to the appropriate local Service office for interview and adjudication.

(2) In the case of an applicant who has submitted evidence of commencement of physical presence in the United States consisting of one or more of the documents specified in section 202(b)(2)(A)(i) through (v) or section 202(b)(2)(A)(vii) of Pub. L. 105-100 and upon examination of the application, including all other evidence submitted in support of the application, all relevant Service records and all other relevant law enforcement indices, if the director of the Texas Service Center determines that the alien is clearly eligible for adjustment of status under Pub. L. 105-100 and that an interview of the applicant is not necessary, the director may approve the application.

(3) Upon examination of the application, all supporting documentation, all relevant Service records, and all other relevant law enforcement indices, if the director of the Texas Service Center determines that the alien is clearly ineligible for adjustment of status under Pub. L. 105-100 and that an interview of the applicant is not necessary, the director may deny the application.
