
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.13 Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Nicaragua and Cuba under Public Law 105-100.
###### Adjudication and issuance.

(2)In general, employment authorization may not be issued to an applicant for adjustment of status under section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100 until the adjustment application has been pending for 180 days. However, if Service records contain one or more of the documents specified in section 202(b)(2)(A)(i) through (v) and (vii) of Pub. L. 105-100, evidence of the applicant's Nicaraguan or Cuban nationality, and no indication that the applicant is clearly ineligible for adjustment of status under section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100, the application for employment authorization may be approved, and the resulting document issued immediately upon verification that the Service record contains such information. If the Service fails to adjudicate the application for employment authorization upon expiration of the 180-day waiting period or within 90 days of the filing of application for employment authorization, whichever comes later, the alien shall be eligible for interim employment authorization in accordance with ยง 1274a.13(d) of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall preclude an applicant for adjustment of status under Pub. L. 105-100 from being granted an initial employment authorization or an extension of employment authorization under any other provision of law or regulation for which the alien may be eligible.
