
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1245 - ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS TO THAT OF PERSON ADMITTED FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1245.13 Adjustment of status of certain nationals of Nicaragua and Cuba under Public Law 105-100.
###### Approval.

(l)If the director approves the application for adjustment of status under the provisions of section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100, the director shall record the alien's lawful admission for permanent resident as of the date of such approval and notify the applicant accordingly. The director shall also advise the alien regarding the delivery of his or her Permanent Resident Card and of the process for obtaining temporary evidence of alien registration. If the alien had previously been issued a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal, such order shall be deemed canceled as of the date of the director's approval of the application for adjustment of status. If the alien had been in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings that were administratively closed, such proceedings shall be deemed terminated as of the date of approval of the application for adjustment of status by the director. If an immigration judge grants or if the Board, upon appeal, grants an application for adjustment under the provisions of section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100, the alien's lawful admission for permanent residence shall be as of the date of such grant.
