
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1249 - CREATION OF RECORDS OF LAWFUL ADMISSION FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
##### ยง 1249.2 Application.
###### Jurisdiction.

(a)An application by an alien, other than an arriving alien, who has been served with a notice to appear or warrant of arrest shall be considered only in proceedings under 8 CFR part 1240. In any other case, an alien who believes he or she meets the eligibility requirements of section 249 of the Act shall apply to the district director having jurisdiction over his or her place of residence. The application shall be made on Form I-485 and shall be accompanied by Form G-325A, which shall be considered part of the application. The application shall also be accompanied by documentary evidence establishing continuous residence in the United States since prior to January 1, 1972, or since entry and prior to July 1, 1924. All documents must be submitted in accordance with ยง 103.2(b) of this chapter. Documentary evidence may include any records of official or personal transactions or recordings of events occurring during the period of claimed residence. Affidavits of credible witnesses may also be accepted. Persons unemployed and unable to furnish evidence in their own names may furnish evidence in the names of parents or other persons with whom they have been living, if affidavits of the parents or other persons are submitted attesting to the residence. The numerical limitations of sections 201 and 202 of the Act shall not apply.
