
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1292 - REPRESENTATION AND APPEARANCES
##### Recognition of Organizations and Accreditation of Non-Attorney Representatives
###### ยง 1292.13 Applying for recognition of organizations or accreditation of representatives.
####### In general.

(a)An organization applying for recognition or accreditation of a representative must submit a request for recognition (Form EOIR-31) or a request for accreditation (Form EOIR-31A) to the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) with proof of service of a copy of the request on the appropriate USCIS office(s) in the jurisdictions where the organization offers or intends to offer immigration legal services. An organization must submit a separate request for accreditation (Form EOIR-31A) for each individual for whom it seeks accreditation. To determine whether an organization has established eligibility for recognition or accreditation of a representative, the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) shall review all information contained in the request for recognition or accreditation and may review any publicly available information or any other information that the Office of Policy may obtain or possess about the organization, its authorized officer, or the proposed representative or may have received pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Unfavorable information obtained by the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) that may be relied upon to disapprove a recognition or accreditation request, if not previously served on the organization, shall be disclosed to the organization, and the organization shall be given a reasonable opportunity to respond. Prior to determining whether to approve or disapprove a request for recognition or accreditation, the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) may request additional information from the organization pertaining to the eligibility requirements for recognition or accreditation. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate), in writing, shall inform the organization and each USCIS office in the jurisdictions where the organization offers or intends to offer immigration legal services of the determination approving or disapproving the organization's request for recognition or accreditation of a representative. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) may, in the exercise of discretion, extend the deadlines provided in this section. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) is authorized to allow requests, notifications, recommendations, and determinations described in this section to be made electronically.
