
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1292 - REPRESENTATION AND APPEARANCES
##### Recognition of Organizations and Accreditation of Non-Attorney Representatives
###### ยง 1292.16 Renewal of recognition and accreditation.
####### Renewal process.

(e)The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) shall review all information contained in the requests and may review any publicly available information or any other information that the Office of Policy may possess about the organization, its authorized officer, or any individual for whom the organization seeks accreditation or renewal of accreditation or that the Office of Policy may have received pursuant to ยง 1292.13(b) through (d). Unfavorable information obtained by the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) that may be relied upon to disapprove a recognition or accreditation request, if not previously served on the organization, shall be disclosed to the organization, and the organization shall be given a reasonable opportunity to respond. Prior to determining whether to approve or disapprove a request for renewal of recognition or accreditation, the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) may request additional information from the organization pertaining to the eligibility requirements for recognition or accreditation. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate), in writing, shall inform the organization and the appropriate DHS office(s) in the jurisdictions where the organization offers or intends to offer immigration legal services of the determination to approve or disapprove a request for renewal of recognition. If the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) renews recognition, the Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) shall issue a written determination approving or disapproving each request for accreditation or renewal of accreditation. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate) is authorized to allow requests, notifications, recommendations, and determinations described in this section to be made electronically.
