
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter V - Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 1292 - REPRESENTATION AND APPEARANCES
##### Recognition of Organizations and Accreditation of Non-Attorney Representatives
###### ยง 1292.16 Renewal of recognition and accreditation.
####### Inactive status.

(i)An organization shall be placed on inactive status if it has no currently approved accredited representative, and it promptly notified the Office of Policy that it no longer has an accredited representative, as required by ยง 1292.14(a). An organization on inactive status is precluded from providing immigration legal services unless it has an attorney on staff. An organization shall be on inactive status for two years from the date the organization is placed on inactive status in order for the organization to apply for and have approved the accreditation of one or more representatives. If an organization on inactive status is subject to renewal while on inactive status, the organization must request renewal of recognition at the time required for renewal. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate), in the Assistant Director for Policy's (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate's) discretion, may approve a request to renew an organization's recognition without a currently approved accredited representative, provided that the organization satisfies the renewal requirements under ยง 1292.16(c)(1) and attests that it intends to apply for and have approved the accreditation of one or more representatives within two years from the date of renewal. An organization renewed under such circumstances shall be on inactive status for two years from the date of renewal in order for the organization to apply for and have approved the accreditation of one or more representatives. The Assistant Director for Policy (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate), in the Assistant Director for Policy's (or the Assistant Director for Policy's delegate's) discretion, may grant an organization additional time on inactive status beyond the time limits provided in this paragraph.
