
# Title 8 - Aliens and Nationality
## Chapter I - Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Immigration Regulations
#### PART 205 - REVOCATION OF APPROVAL OF PETITIONS
##### ยง 205.1 Automatic revocation.
###### 2

() U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines, as a matter of discretion exercised for humanitarian reasons in light of the facts of a particular case, that it is inappropriate to revoke the approval of the petition. USCIS may make this determination only if the principal beneficiary of the visa petition asks for reinstatement of the approval of the petition and establishes that a person related to the principal beneficiary in one of the ways described in section 213A(f)(5)(B) of the Act is willing and able to file an affidavit of support under 8 CFR part 213a as a substitute sponsor.

(D) Upon the legal termination of the marriage when a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States has petitioned to accord his or her spouse immediate relative or family-sponsored preference immigrant classification under section 201(b) or section 203(a)(2) of the Act. The approval of a spousal self-petition based on the relationship to an abusive citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States filed under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii) or 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act, however, will not be revoked solely because of the termination of the marriage to the abuser.

(E) Upon the remarriage of the spouse of an abusive citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States when the spouse has self-petitioned under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii) or 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act for immediate relative classification under section 201(b) of the Act or for preference classification under section 203(a)(2) of the Act.

(F) Upon a child reaching the age of 21, when he or she has been accorded immediate relative status under section 201(b) of the Act. A petition filed on behalf of a child under section 204(a)(1)(A)(i) of the Act or a self-petition filed by a child of an abusive United States citizen under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iv) of the Act, however, will remain valid for the duration of the relationship to accord preference status under section 203(a)(1) of the Act if the beneficiary remains unmarried, or to accord preference status under section 203(a)(3) of the Act if he or she marries.

(G) Upon the marriage of a child, when he or she has been accorded immediate relative status under section 201(b) of the Act. A petition filed on behalf of the child under section 204(a)(1)(A)(i) of the Act or a self-petition filed by a child of an abusive United States citizen under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iv) of the Act, however, will remain valid for the duration of the relationship to accord preference status under section 203(a)(3) of the Act if he or she marries.

(H) Upon the marriage of a person accorded preference status as a son or daughter of a United States citizen under section 203(a)(1) of the Act. A petition filed on behalf of the son or daughter, however, will remain valid for the duration of the relationship to accord preference status under section 203(a)(3) of the Act.

(I) Upon the marriage of a person accorded status as a son or daughter of a lawful permanent resident alien under section 203(a)(2) of the Act.

(J) Upon legal termination of the petitioner's status as an alien admitted for lawful permanent residence in the United States unless the petitioner became a United States citizen. The provisions of 8 CFR 204.2(i)(3) shall apply if the petitioner became a United States citizen.
