
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.34 Finger Lakes.
####### Boundaries.

(c)The boundaries of the Finger Lakes viticultural area, based on landmarks and points of reference found on the approved maps, are as follows:

(1) Starting at the most northwest point, the intersection of the Erie Canal and the north/south Conrail line south of the City of Rochester.

(2) Then east along the course of the Erie Canal approximately 56 miles (45 miles due east) to the intersection of New York State Highway 89 (NY-89).

(3) Then south on NY-89 four miles to the intersection of highway US-20.

(4) Then east on US-20 for 36 miles to the intersection of interstate 81 (I-81).

(5) Then south along I-81 for ten miles to NY-281.

(6) Then south along NY-281 for 20 miles around the western city limits of Cortland where NY-281 becomes NY-13.

(7) Then continuing southwest on NY-13 (through the cities of Dryden and Ithaca) approximately 36 miles to the intersection of NY-224.

(8) Then due west one mile to the southern boundary of Schuyler County.

(9) Then continuing west along this county line 20 miles to the community of Meads Creek.

(10) Then north along the Schuyler-Steuben county line four miles to the major east-west power line.

(11) Then west along the power line for eight miles to the intersection of NY-17 (four miles southeast of the community of Bath).

(12) Then northwest on NY-17 approximately nine miles to the intersection of I-390.

(13) Then northwest on I-390 for 21 miles to the intersection of NY-36.

(14) Then north for two miles through the community of Dansville to NY-63.

(15) Then northwest on NY-63 approximately 18 miles to the intersection of NY-39, just south of Genesco.

(16) Then north on NY-39 nine miles to the intersection where the west and north/south Conrail lines meet at the community of Avon.

(17) Then north along the north/south Conrail line for 15 miles to the beginning point at the intersection of the Erie Canal.
