
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.48 Monticello.
####### Boundaries.

(c)(1) From Norwood, Virginia, following the Tye River west and northwest until it intersects with the eastern boundary of the George Washington National Forest;

(2) Following this boundary northeast to Virginia Rt. 664;

(3) Then west following Rt. 664 to its intersection with the Nelson County line;

(4) Then northeast along the Nelson County line to its intersection with the Albemarle County line at Jarman Gap;

(5) From this point continuing northeast along the eastern boundary of the Shenandoah National Park to its intersection with the northern Albemarle County line;

(6) Continuing northeast along the Greene County line to its intersection with Virginia Rt. 33;

(7) Follow Virginia Rt. 33 east to the intersection of Virginia Rt. 230 at Stanardsville;

(8) Follow Virginia Rt. 230 north to the Greene County line (the Conway River);

(9) Following the Greene County line (Conway River which becomes the Rapidan River) southeast to its intersection with the Orange County line;

(10) Following the Orange County line (Rapidan River) east and northeast to its confluence with the Mountain Run River;

(11) Then following the Mountain Run River southwest to its intersection with Virginia Rt. 20;

(12) Continuing southwest along Rt. 20 to the corporate limits of the town of Orange;

(13) Following southwest the corporate limit line to its intersection with U.S. Rt. 15;

(14) Continuing southwest on Rt. 15 to its intersection with Virginia Rt. 231 in the town of Gordonsville;

(15) Then southwest along Rt. 231 to its intersection with the Albemarle County line.

(16) Then continuing southwest along the county line to its intersection with the Rivanna River;

(17) Then southeast along the Rivanna River to its confluence with the James River, near the Fluvanna-Goochland County line;

(18) Then southwest, then northwest along the James River to its intersection with the Albemarle County line;

(19) Then following the James River to its confluence with the Tye River at Norwood, Virginia, the beginning point.
