
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.50 Temecula Valley.
####### Boundary.

(c)The Temecula Valley viticultural area is located in Riverside County, California. The boundary is as follows:

(1) The beginning point is the northernmost point of the Santa Rosa Land Grant where the Santa Rosa Land Grant boundary intersects the easternmost point of the Cleveland National Forest boundary.

(2) The boundary follows the Cleveland National Forest boundary southwesterly to the point where it converges with the Riverside County-San Diego County line.

(3) The boundary follows the Riverside County-San Diego County line southwesterly, then southeasterly to the point where the Riverside County-San Diego County line diverges southward and the Santa Rosa Land Grant boundary continues southeasterly.

(4) The boundary follows the Santa Rosa Land Grant boundary southeasterly, then northeasterly, to its intersection with the Temecula Land Grant boundary.

(5) The boundary follows the Temecula Land Grant boundary southeasterly, then northeasterly, to its intersection with the Little Temecula Land Grant boundary.

(6) The boundary follows the Little Temecula Land Grant boundary southeasterly to its intersection with the boundary of that portion of the Pechanga Indian Reservation which, until 1907, was Lot "E" of the Little Temecula Land Grant.

(7) The boundary follows the Pechanga Indian Reservation boundary southeasterly, then northeasterly (including that portion of the Penchanga Indian Reservation in the approved viticultural area) to the point at which it rejoins the Little Temecula Land Grant boundary.

(8) The boundary follows the Little Temecula Land Grant boundary northeasterly to its intersection with the Pauba Land Grant boundary.

(9) The boundary follows the Pauba Land Grant boundary southeasterly, then northeasterly, to the north-south section line dividing Section 23 from Section 24 in Township 8 South, Range 2 West.

(10) The boundary follows this section line south to the 1500-foot contour line.

(11) The boundary follows the 1500-foot contour line easterly to the range line dividing Range 2 West from Range 1 West.

(12) The boundary follows this range line north, across California State Highway 71/79, to the 1400-foot contour line of Oak Mountain.

(13) The boundary follows the 1400-foot contour line around Oak Mountain to its intersection with the 117&#xB0;00&#x2032; West longitude meridian.

(14) The boundary follows the 117&#xB0;00&#x2032; West longitude meridian north to its intersection with the Pauba Land Grant boundary.

(15) The boundary follows the Pauba Land Grant boundary northwesterly, then west, then south, then west, to Warren Road (which coincides with the range line dividing Range 1 West from Range 2 West).

(16) The boundary follows Warren Road north to an unnamed east-west, light-duty, hard or improved surface road (which coincides with the section line dividing Section 12 from Section 13 in Township 7 South, Range 2 West).

(17) The boundary follows this road west to the north-south section line dividing Section 13 from Section 14 in Township 7 South, Range 2 West.

(18) The boundary follows this section line south to its intersection with Buck Road (which coincides with the east-west section line on the southern edge of Section 14 in Township 7 South, Range 2 West).

(19) The boundary follows Buck Road west to the point where it diverges northwesterly from the section line on the southern edge of Section 14 in Township 7 South, Range 2 West.

(20) The boundary follows this section line west, along the southern edges of Sections 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 in Township 7 South, Range 2 West, to Tucalota Creek.

(21) The boundary follows Tucalota Creek southerly to Santa Gertrudis Creek.

(22) The boundary follows Santa Gertrudis Creek southwesterly to Murrieta Creek.

(23) The boundary proceeds northwesterly along the westernmost branches of Murrieta Creek to its intersection with Hayes Avenue, northwest of Murrieta, California.

(24) The boundary follows Hayes Avenue northwesterly, approximately 4,000 feet, to its terminus at an unnamed, unimproved, fair or dry weather road.

(25) The boundary follows this road southwesterly to Murrieta Creek.

(26) The boundary proceeds northwesterly along the westernmost branches of Murrieta Creek to its intersection with Orange Street in Wildomar, California.

(27) From the intersection of Murrieta Creek and Orange Street in Wildomar, California, the boundary proceeds in a straight line to the beginning point.

(d) From November 23, 1984, until June 17, 2004, the name of this viticultural area was "Temecula". Effective June 18, 2004, this viticulture area is named "Temecula Valley". Existing certificates of label approval showing "Temecula" as the appellation of origin will be revoked by operation of this regulation on June 19, 2006.
