
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.61 El Dorado.
####### Boundaries.

(c)The boundaries of the El Dorado viticultural area which is located in El Dorado County, California, are as follows:

(1) The beginning point of the boundaries is the intersection of the North Fork of the American River (also the boundary line between El Dorado and Placer Counties) and the township line "T. 11 N./T. 12 N." ("Pilot Hill" Quadrangle);

(2) Thence northeast along the North Fork of the American River to its divergence with the Middle Fork of the American River, continuing then, following the Middle Fork of the American River to its intersection with the Rubicon River which continues as the boundary line between El Dorado and Placer Counties ("Auburn," "Greenwood," "Georgetown," "Foresthill," and "Michigan Bluff" Quadrangles);

(3) Thence southeast along the Rubicon River to its intersection with the range line "R. 11 E./R. 12 E." ("Tunnel Hill" Quadrangle);

(4) Thence south along the range line through T. 13 N. and T. 12 N., to its intersection with the township line "T. 12 N./T. 11 N." ("Tunnel Hill" and "Slate Mountain" Quadrangles);

(5) Thence east along the range line to its intersection with the range line "R. 12 E./R. 13 E." ("Slate Mountains" and "Pollock Pines" Quadrangles);

(6) Thence south along the range line to its intersection with the township line "T. 11 N./T. 10 N." ("Pollock Pines" Quadrangle);

(7) Thence east along the township line to its intersection with the range line "R. 13 E./R. 14 E." ("Pollock Pines" and "Stump Spring" Quadrangles);

(8) Thence south along the range line through T. 10 N., T. 9 N., and T. 8 N. to its intersection with the South Fork of the Cosumnes River (also the boundary line between El Dorado and Amador Counties) ("Stump Spring" and "Caldor" Quadrangles);

(9) Thence west and northwest along the South Fork of the Cosumnes River to its intersection with range line "R. 11 E./R. 10 E." ("Caldor," "Omo Ranch," "Aukum," and "Fiddletown" Quadrangles);

(10) Thence north along the range line to its intersection with the township line "T. 8 N./T. 9 N." ("Fiddletown" Quadrangle);

(11) Thence west along the township line to its intersection with range line "R. 10 E./R. 9 E." ("Fiddletown" and "Latrobe" Quadrangles);

(12) Thence north along the range line to its intersection with U.S. Route 50;

(13) Thence west along U.S. Route 50 to its intersection with Cameron Park Drive;

(14) Thence north along Cameron Park Drive to its intersection with Green Valley Road;

(15) Thence east along Green Valley Road to its intersection with range line R.10 E/ R.9 E;

(16) Thence north along the range line to its intersection with the township line T.10 N./ T.11 N;

(17) Thence east along the township line approximately 4,000 feet to its intersection with the range line "R. 9 E./R. 10 E." ("Coloma" Quadrangle);

(18) Thence north on the range line to its intersection with the township line "T. 11 N./T. 12 N." ("Coloma" Quadrangle); and

(19) Thence west along the township line to the point of beginning ("Coloma" and "Pilot Hill" Quadrangles).
