
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.71 Hermann.
####### Boundaries.

(c)The Hermann viticultural area is located in central Missouri along and south of the Missouri River, in the northern portions of Gasconade and Franklin Counties. The boundaries of the Hermann viticultural area, using landmarks and points of reference found on the appropriate U.S.G.S. maps, are as follows:

(1) Starting at the intersection of the Gasconade River with the Missouri River.

(2) Then continuing east and northeast approximately 16.5 miles along the Missouri River Pacific Railroad, as it parallels the Missouri River, to the Gasconade/Franklin County line.

(3) Then continuing along the Missouri Pacific Railroad southeast approximately 8.5 miles to the intersection Big Berger Creek.

(4) Then southwest along the winding course of Big Berger Creek for approximately 20 miles (eight miles due southwest) to Township line T.44/45N.

(5) Then west along the T.44/45N. line approximately 15.5 miles to the intersection of First Creek.

(6) Then north and northwest along the course of First Creek approximately 13.7 miles (6.5 miles straight northwest) to the intersection of the Gasconade River.

(7) Then northeast along the course of the Gasconade River approximately 3.8 miles to the beginning point.
