
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.75 Central Coast.
####### Boundary.

(c)The Central Coast viticultural area is located in the following California counties: Monterey, Santa Cruz, Santa Clara, Alameda, San Benito, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, San Francisco, San Mateo, and Contra Costa. The Santa Cruz Mountains viticultural area is excluded. (The boundaries of the Santa Cruz Mountains viticultural area are described in 27 CFR ยง 9.31.)

(1) The beginning point is the point at which the Pajaro River flows into Monterey Bay. (Monterey map)

(2) The boundary follows north along the shoreline of the Pacific Ocean (across the Watsonville West, Soquel, Santa Cruz, Davenport, A&#xF1;o Nuevo, Franklin Point, Pigeon Point, San Gregorio, Half Moon Bay, Montara Mountain and San Francisco South maps) to the San Francisco/Oakland Bay Bridge. (San Francisco North Quadrangle)

(3) From this point, the boundary proceeds east on the San Francisco/Oakland Bay Bridge to the Alameda County shoreline. (Oakland West Quadrangle)

(4) From this point, the boundary proceeds east along the shoreline of Alameda County and Contra Costa County across the Richmond, San Quentin, Mare Island, and Benicia maps to a point marked BM 15 on the shoreline of Contra Costa County. (Vine Hill Quadrangle)

(5) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a southeasterly direction in a straight line across the Honker Bay map to Mulligan Hill elevation 1,438. (Clayton Quadrangle)

(6) The boundary proceeds in southeasterly direction in a straight line to Mt. Diablo elevation 3,849. (Clayton Quadrangle)

(7) The boundary proceeds in a southeasterly direction in a straight line across the Diablo and Tassajara maps to Brushy Peak elevation 1,702. (Byron Hot Springs Quadrangle)

(8) The boundary proceeds due south, approximately 400 feet, to the northern boundaries of Section 13, Township 2 South, Range 2 East. (Byron Hot Springs Quadrangle)

(9) The boundary proceeds due east along the northern boundaries of Section 13 and Section 18, Township 2 South, Range 3 East, to the northeast corner of Section 18. (Byron Hot Springs Quadrangle)

(10) Then proceed southeast in a straight line approximately 1.8 miles to BM 720 in Section 21, Township 2 South, Range 3 East. (Altamont Quadrangle)

(11) Then proceed south-southeast approximately 1 mile to an unnamed 1,147-foot peak in Section 28, Township 2 South, Range 3 East. (Altamont Quadrangle)

(12) Then proceed south-southwest in a straight line approximately 1.1 miles to the intersection of the eastern boundary of Section 32 with Highway 580, Township 2 South, Range 3 East. (Altamont Quadrangle)

(13) Then proceed south-southeast in a straight line approximately 2.7 miles to BM 1602 in Patterson Pass in Section 10, Township 3 South, Range 3 East. (Altamont Quadrangle)

(14) Then proceed south-southeast in a straight line approximately 2.8 miles to BM 1600, adjacent to Tesla Road in Section 26. (Midway Quadrangle)

(15) Then proceed south in a straight line approximately 4.2 miles to BM 1878, 40 feet north of Mines Road, in Section 14, Township 4 South, Range 3 East. (Cedar Mtn. Quadrangle)

(16) Then proceed west-southwest in a straight line approximately 4.2 miles to the southeast corner of Section 19, Township 4 South, Range 3 East. (Mendenhall Springs Quadrangle)

(17) The boundary follows the east-west section line west along the southern boundary of Section 19 in Township 4 South, Range 3 east, and west along the southern boundary of Section 24 in Township 4 South, Range 2 east, to the southwest corner of that Section 24. (Mendenhall Springs Quadrangle)

(18) The boundary follows the north-south section line north along the western boundary of Section 24 in Township 4 South, Range 2 east, to the northwest corner of that Section 24. (Mendenhall Springs Quadrangle)

(19) The boundary follows the east-west section line west along the southern boundary of Section 14 in Township 4 South, Range 2 east, to the southwest corner of that Section 14. (Mendenhall Springs Quadrangel)

(20) The boundary follows the north-south section line north along the western boundary of Section 14 in Township 4 South, Range 2 east, to the Hetch Hetchy Aqueduct. (Mendenhall Springs Quadrangle)

(21) The boundary follows the Hetch Hetchy Aqueduct southwesterly to the range line dividing Range 1 East from Range 2 East. (San Jose map)

(22) The boundary follows this range line south to its intersection with State Route 130. (San Jose map)

(23) The boundary follows State Route 130 southeasterly to its intersection with the township line dividing Township 6 South from Township 7 South. (San Jose map)

(24) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a straight line southeasterly to the intersection of the township line dividing Township 7 South from Township 8 South with the range line dividing Range 2 East from Range 3 East. (San Jose map)

(25) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a straight line southeasterly to the intersection of the township line dividing Township 8 South from Township 9 South with the range line dividing Range 3 East from Range 4 East. (San Jose map)

(26) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a straight line southeasterly to the intersection of Coyote Creek with the township line dividing Township 9 South from Township 10 South. (San Jose map)

(27) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a straight line southeasterly to the intersection of the 37&#xB0;00&#x2032; North latitude parallel with State Route 152. (San Jose map)

(28) The boundary follows the 37&#xB0;00&#x2032; North latitude parallel east to the range line dividing Range 5 East from Range 6 East. (Monterey map)

(29) The boundary follows this range line south to the San Benito-Santa Clara County line. (Monterey map)

(30) The boundary follows the San Benito-Santa Clara County line easterly to the San Benito-Merced County line. (Monterey map)

(31) The boundary follows the San Benito-Merced County line southeasterly to the conjunction of the county lines of San Benito, Merced, and Fresno Counties. (Monterey map)

(32) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a southwesterly extension of the Merced-Fresno County line to Salt Creek. (Monterey map)

(33) From this point, the boundary proceeds in a straight line southeasterly to the conjunction of the county lines of Monterey, San Benito, and Fresno Counties. (Monterey map)

(34) The boundary follows the Monterey-Fresno County line southeasterly to the Monterey-Kings County line. (Monterey and San Luis Obispo maps)

(35) The boundary follows the Monterey-Kings County line southeasterly to the San Luis Obispo-Kings County line. (San Luis Obispo map)

(36) The boundary follows the San Luis Obispo-Kings County line east to the San Luis Obispo-Kern County line. (San Luis Obispo map)

(37) The boundary follows the San Luis Obispo-Kern County line south, then east, then south to the point at which the county line diverges easterly from the range line dividing Range 17 East from Range 18 East. (San Luis Obispo map)

(38) The boundary follows this range line south to the township line dividing Township 28 South from Township 29 South. (San Luis Obispo map)

(39) The boundary follows the township line west to the range line dividing Range 13 East from Range 14 East. (San Luis Obispo map)

(40) The boundary follows this range line south to the boundary of the Los Padres National Forest. (San Luis Obispo map)

(41) The boundary follows the boundary of the Los Padres National Forest southeasterly to the creek of Toro Canyon. (San Luis Obispo, Santa Maria, and Los Angeles maps)

(42) The boundary follows the creek of Toro Canyon southerly to the Pacific Ocean. (Los Angeles map)

(43) The boundary follows the shoreline of the Pacific Ocean and Monterey Bay northerly to the beginning point. (Los Angeles, Santa Maria, San Luis Obispo, and Monterey maps)
