
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.84 Paso Robles.
####### Boundaries.

(c)The Paso Robles viticultural area is located within San Luis Obispo County, California. From the point of beginning where the county lines of San Luis Obispo, Kings and Kern Counties converge, the county line also being the township line between T.24S. and T.25S., in R.16E.:

(1) Then in a westerly direction along this county line for 42 miles to the range line between R.9E. and R.10E.;

(2) Then in a southerly direction for 12 miles along the range line to the southwest of corner of T.26S. and R.10E.;

(3) Then in a southeasterly direction, approximately 5.5 miles to a point of intersection of the Dover Canyon Jeep Trail and Dover Canyon Road;

(4) Then in an easterly direction along Dover Canyon Road, approximately 1.5 miles, to the western border line of Rancho Paso de Robles;

(5) Then, following the border of the Paso Robles land grant, beginning in an easterly direction, to a point where it intersects the range line between R.11E. and R.12E.;

(6) Then southeasterly for approximately 16.5 miles to the point of intersection of the township line between T.29S. and T.30S. and the range line between R.12E. and R.13E.;

(7) Then in an easterly direction along the T.29S. and T.30S. line for approximately 3.1 miles to its intersection with the eastern boundary line of the Los Padres National Forest;

(8) Then in a southeasterly direction along the eastern boundary line of the Los Padres National Forest for approximately 4.1 miles to its intersection with the R.13E. and R.14E. line;

(9) Then in a northerly direction along the R.13E. and R.14E. line for approximately 8.7 miles to its intersection with the T.28S. and T.29S. line;

(10) Then in an easterly direction for approximately 18 miles to the range line between R.16E. and R.17E.;

(11) Then in a northerly direction for approximately 24 miles to the point of beginning.
