
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 4 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF WINE
##### Subpart C - Standards of Identity for Wine
###### § 4.21 The standards of identity.
####### Class 8; imitation and substandard or other than standard wine.

(h)(1) "Imitation wine" shall bear as a part of its designation the word "imitation," and shall include:

(i) Any wine containing synthetic materials.

(ii) Any wine made from a mixture of water with residue remaining after thorough pressing of grapes, fruit, or other agricultural products.

(iii) Any class or type of wine the taste, aroma, color, or other characteristics of which have been acquired in whole or in part, by treatment with methods or materials of any kind (except as permitted in § 4.22(c)(6)), if the taste, aroma, color, or other characteristics of normal wines of such class or type are acquired without such treatment.

(iv) Any wine made from must concentrated at any time to more than 80&#xB0; (Balling).

(2) "Substandard wine" or "other than standard wine" shall bear as a part of its designation the words "substandard" or "other than standard," and shall include:

(i) Any wine having a volatile acidity in excess of the maximum prescribed therefor in §§ 4.20 to 4.25.

(ii) Any wine for which no maximum volatile acidity is prescribed in §§ 4.20 to 4.25, inclusive, having a volatile acidity, calculated as acetic acid and exclusive of sulfur dioxide, in excess of 0.14 gram per 100 milliliters (20 &#xB0;C.).

(iii) Any wine for which a standard of identity is prescribed in this §§ 4.20 to 4.25, inclusive, which, through disease, decomposition, or otherwise, fails to have the composition, color, and clean vinous taste and aroma of normal wines conforming to such standard.

(iv) Any "grape wine" "citrus wine," "fruit wine," or "wine from other agricultural products" to which has been added sugar and water solution in an amount which is in excess of the limitations prescribed in the standards of identity for these products, unless, in the case of "citrus wine," "fruit wine" and "wine from other agricultural products" the normal acidity of the material from which such wine is produced is 20 parts or more per thousand and the volume of the resulting product has not been increased more than 60 percent by such addition.
