
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.104 South Coast.
####### Boundary Description.

(2)(i) From the starting point generally northeastward, eastward, and southeastward along the Orange County line, to the intersection of that county line with the township line on the northern border of Township 7 South (in Range 6 West; on the Santa Ana map).

(ii) From there eastward along that township line to its intersection with the northern boundary of the Temecula viticultural area described in ยง 9.50; at this point, the Temecula viticultural area boundary coincides with the boundary of the Cleveland National Forest (on the Wildomar Quadrangle map).

(iii) From there following the northern boundary of the Temecula viticultural area, at and near its northernmost point, generally northeastward, eastward, and southeastward until the Temecula viticultural area boundary again intersects the township line on the northern border of Township 7 South (in Range 4 West; thus all of the Temecula viticultural area is included inside of South Coast viticultural area).

(iv) Then eastward, along the township line on the northern border of Township 7 South, to the San Bernardino Meridian (on the Santa Ana map).

(v) Then southward along the San Bernardino Meridian to the Riverside County-San Diego County line.

(vi) Then westward along that county line for about 7miles, to the western boundary of the Cleveland National Forest (near the Pechanga Indian Reservation).

(vii) Then generally southeastward along the Cleveland National Forest boundary to where it joins California Highway 76.

(viii) From there generally southeastward along Highway 76 to California Highway 79.

(ix) Then southeastward along Highway 79 to the township line on the northern border of Township 12 South (in Range 3 East).

(x) Then eastward along that township line to its intersection with the range line on the eastern border of Range 3 East.

(xi) From there southward along that range line to the U.S.-Mexico international border.

(xii) Then westward along that international border to the Pacific Ocean.

(xiii) Then generally northwestward along the shore of the Pacific Ocean to the starting point.
