
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.123 Mt. Veeder.
####### Boundaries.

(c)(1) Beginning at unnamed peak, elevation 1,820, on the common boundary between Napa County and Sonoma County in section 23, Township 7 North, Range 6 West, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian on the Rutherford, Calif. U.S.G.S. map;

(2) Thence south along common boundary between Napa County and Sonoma County to unnamed peak, elevation 1,135 feet on the Sonoma, Calif. U.S.G.S. map;

(3) Thence continuing south along the ridge line approximatelymile to unnamed peak, elevation 948 feet;

(4) Thence due east in a straight line approximatelymile to the 400 foot contour;

(5) Thence following the 400 foot contour line north around Carneros Valley and then to the west of Congress Valley and Browns Valley on the Napa, Calif. U.S.G.S. map;

(6) Thence paralleling Redwood Road to its intersection with the line dividing Range 5 West and Range 4 West, east of the unnamed 837 foot peak;

(7) Thence north along the line dividing Range 5 West and Range 4 West approximatelymile to the 400 foot contour;

(8) Thence briefly southeast, then northwest along the 400 foot contour to the point where that contour intersects the northern border of Section 10, Township 6 North, Range 5 West immediately adjacent to Dry Creek on the Rutherford Calif. U.S.G.S. map;

(9) Thence northwesterly along Dry Creek through Sections 3 and 4 of Township 6 North, Range 5 West, and Sections 32 and 31 of Township 7 North, Range 5 West, to the fork of Dry Creek near the center of Section 25 of Township 7 North, Range 6 West;

(10) Continuing along the northern fork of Dry Creek through Sections 25 and 24 of Township 7 North, Range 6 West, to the point at which the main channel of Dry Creek ends and divides into three tributaries;

(11) Thence following the middle tributary of Dry Creek through Sections 24 and 23 of Township 7 North, Range 6 West, to its source at the intersection with a trail indicated on the map;

(12) Thence following a straight line west approximatelymile to the top of unnamed peak, elevation 1,820, the beginning point.
