
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.125 Fredericksburg in the Texas Hill Country.
####### Boundaries.

(c)The Fredericksburg in the Texas Hill Country viticultural area is located entirely in Gillespie County, Texas, in the central part of the State approximately 80 miles west of Austin. The beginning point is on the Stonewall Quadrangle map near Blumenthal at a point on U.S. Route 290 approximately .1 mile east of bench mark (BM) 1504, at the junction of a light-duty road known locally as Jung Road.

(1) From the beginning point, the boundary proceeds on Jung Road in a northwesterly direction across the Pedernales River.

(2) Then northwesterly approximately 1 mile along Jung Road as it parallels the Pedernales River.

(3) Then north along Jung Road approximately 3.9 miles to a point where Jung Road meets a medium-duty road known locally as Texas Ranch Road 2721.

(4) Then westerly approximately .1 mile on Texas Ranch Road 2721 to a point where it meets a medium-duty road known locally as Texas Ranch Road 1631.

(5) Then northeasterly along Texas Ranch Road 1631 approximately 1 mile to a point where Texas Ranch Road 1631 crosses the 1,800 foot contour line.

(6) Then northwesterly in a meandering manner along the 1,800-foot contour line to the point where the 1,800-foot contour line crosses State Route 16.

(7) Then in a generally westerly direction along the 1,800-foot contour line to the point where the 1,800-foot contour line crosses State Route 965.

(8) Then in a northwesterly and then generally a southeasterly direction along the 1,800-foot contour line to a point where the 1,800-foot contour line goes just south of the Kordzik Hills approximately 1 mile due east of the city of Fredericksburg.

(9) Then continuing on the 1,800-foot contour line in a generally northwesterly, southerly, and again northwesterly direction to the point where the 1,800-foot contour line crosses Loudon Road approximately 4 miles northwest of Fredericksburg.

(10) Then continuing on the 1,800-foot contour line in a northwesterly, then generally a southeasterly, westerly and finally a southerly direction to a point where the 1,800-foot contour line crosses a light-duty road known locally as Hayden Ranch Road about 50 yards north of Texas Ranch Road 2093.

(11) Then 50 yards south on Hayden Ranch Road to Texas Ranch Road 2093 and then east on Texas Ranch Road 2093 approximately .15 mile to an unimproved, southbound, gravel and dirt county road known locally as Beverly Gold's Road.

(12) Then approximately 2.6 miles south on Beverly Gold's Road to a point where it joins Texas State Route 16.

(13) Then approximately 1.5 miles northeast on State Route 16 to a light-duty county road known locally as Bear Creek Road.

(14) Then approximately 1 mile in a southeasterly, northeasterly, and then a southerly direction along Bear Creek Road to the point where the road crosses the 1,700-foot contour line.

(15) Then in a generally easterly direction for approximately 10 miles along the 1,700-foot contour line to a point where the 1,700-foot contour line crosses Texas Ranch Road 1376.

(16) Then approximately 3.1 miles southeast along Texas Ranch Road 1376 to a light-duty road at Luckenbach known locally both as Kunz-Klien Road and Luckenbach Road.

(17) Then approximately 1.3 miles in a generally northeasterly and then an easterly direction along Luckenbach Road and continuing along Luckenbach Road in a northerly direction about 2.5 miles to the point where Luckenbach Road joins U.S. Route 290.

(18) Then west approximately .2 mile on U.S. Route 290 to the intersection with Jung Road, the point of beginning.
