
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 9 - AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS
##### Subpart C - Approved American Viticultural Areas
###### ยง 9.167 Red Mountain
####### Boundaries.

(c)The Red Mountain viticultural area is located within Benton County, Washington, entirely within the existing Yakima Valley viticultural area. The boundaries are as follows:

(1) The northwest boundary beginning on this map at the intersection of the 560-foot elevation level and the aqueduct found northwest of the center of section 32.

(2) Then following the aqueduct east to its endpoint at an elevation of approximately 650-feet, again in section 32.

(3) From this point in a straight line southeast to the 1173-foot peak, located southeast of the center of section 32.

(4) From this peak southeast in a straight line across the lower southwest corner of section 33 to the 1253-foot peak located due north of the center of section 4.

(5) Then in a straight line southeast to the 1410-foot peak located in the southwest corner of section 3.

(6) From this peak in a straight line southeast to the border of sections 10 and 11 where the power line crosses these two sections. This intersection is northeast of the center of section 10 and northwest of the center of section 11.

(7) From this point in a straight line south following the border of sections 10 and 11 to the corner of sections 10,11,15, and 14. This point has an elevation of 684 feet.

(8) From this point southwest in a diagonal to the 700-foot elevation line and then following this 700-foot elevation through Section 15 and into section 16.

(9) Then following the 700-foot elevation line southwestmile in a southwest diagonal until it meets the creek bed.

(10) Following the creek bed southwest through section 16, across the extreme southeast corner of section 17 and into the northeast corner of section 20 to a point where the creek bed meets the 560-foot elevation point.

(11) From this 560-foot elevation point, running north along this elevation line through section 17, through section 8, through section 5 and through section 32 until meeting the beginning point at the aqueduct in section 32.
