
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 4 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF WINE
##### Subpart D - Labeling Requirements for Wine
###### § 4.34 Class and type.

(a) The class of the wine shall be stated in conformity with subpart C of this part if the wine is defined therein, except that "table" ("light") and "dessert" wines need not be designated as such. In the case of still grape wine there may appear, in lieu of the class designation, any varietal (grape type) designation, type designation of varietal significance, semigeneric geographic type designation, or geographic distinctive designation, to which the wine may be entitled. In the case of champagne, or crackling wines, the type designation "champagne" or "crackling wine" ("petillant wine", "frizzante wine") may appear in lieu of the class designation "sparkling wine". In the case of wine which has a total solids content of more than 17 grams per 100 cubic centimeters the words "extra sweet", "specially sweetened", "specially sweet" or "sweetened with excess sugar" shall be stated as a part of the class and type designation. The last of these quoted phrases shall appear where required by part 24 of this chapter, on wines sweetened with sugar in excess of the maximum quantities specified in such regulations. If the class of the wine is not defined in subpart C, a truthful and adequate statement of composition shall appear upon the brand label of the product in lieu of a class designation. In addition to the mandatory designation for the wine, there may be stated a distinctive or fanciful name, or a designation in accordance with trade understanding. The statement of composition will not include any reference to a varietal (grape type) designation, type designation of varietal significance, semi-generic geographic type designation, or geographic distinctive designation. All parts of the designation of the wine, whether mandatory or optional, shall be in direct conjunction and in lettering substantially of the same size and kind.

(b) An appellation of origin such as "American," "New York," "Napa Valley," or "Chilean," disclosing the true place of origin of the wine, shall appear in direct conjunction with and in lettering substantially as conspicuous as the class and type designation if:

(1) A varietal (grape type) designation is used under the provisions of § 4.23;

(2) A type designation of varietal significance is used under the provisions of § 4.28;

(3) A semi-generic type designation is employed as the class and type designation of the wine pursuant to § 4.24(b);

(4) A product name is qualified with the word "Brand" under the requirements of § 4.39 (j); or

(5) The wine is labeled with the year of harvest of the grapes, and otherwise conforms with the provisions of § 4.27.
