
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 10 - COMMERCIAL BRIBERY
##### Subpart D - Exclusion
###### ยง 10.54 Criteria for determining trade buyer independence.

The criteria specified in this section are indications that a particular practice between an industry member and an officer, employee, or representative of a trade buyer, other than those in ยง 10.52, places trade buyer independence at risk. A practice need not meet all of the criteria specified in this section in order to place trade buyer independence at risk.

(a) The practice restricts or hampers the free economic choice of a trade buyer to decide which products to purchase or the quantity in which to purchase them for sale to retailers and consumers.

(b) The industry member obligates the trade buyer to participate in the promotion to obtain the industry member's product.

(c) The trade buyer has a continuing obligation to purchase or otherwise promote the industry member's product.

(d) The trade buyer has a commitment not to terminate its relationship with the industry member with respect to purchase of the industry member's products.

(e) The practice involves the industry member in the day-to-day operations of the trade buyer. For example, the industry member controls the trade buyer's decisions on which brand of products to purchase, the pricing of products, or the manner in which the products will be displayed on the trade buyer's premises.

(f) The practice is discriminatory in that it is not offered to all trade buyers in the local market on the same terms without business reasons present to justify the difference in treatment.
