
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 17 - DRAWBACK ON TAXPAID DISTILLED SPIRITS USED IN MANUFACTURING NONBEVERAGE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart H - Records
###### ยง 17.162 Receipt of distilled spirits.
####### Determination of quantity.

(d)At the time of receipt, each manufacturer shall determine (preferably by weight) and record the exact number of proof gallons of distilled spirits received. The amount received in bottles may be determined by the required statements on the labels. The amount received in sealed drums with no evidence of leakage may be determined from the record of shipment, which is required by ยง 19.626 of this chapter to accompany spirits received from a distilled spirits plant. If spirits are received in a tank car or tank truck, and the result of the manufacturer's gauge of the spirits is within 0.2 percent of the number of proof gallons reported on the record of shipment required by ยง 19.626, then the number of proof gallons reported on that record may be recorded as the quantity received. Nevertheless, the receiving gauge shall be noted on the record of receipt. If, for any shipment, the amount recorded in the manufacturer's records as the quantity received is greater than the amount shown as taxpaid on the record required by ยง 19.626, a deduction equivalent to the excess shall be made from the amount of drawback claimed in the manufacturer's claim covering that period. If no claim is filed for that period, then the deduction shall be made in the manufacturer's next claim. Losses in transit that exceed the 0.2 percent limitation provided in this paragraph shall be determined and noted on the record of receipt. Such losses shall not be recorded as distilled spirits received.
