
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 17 - DRAWBACK ON TAXPAID DISTILLED SPIRITS USED IN MANUFACTURING NONBEVERAGE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart H - Records
###### ยง 17.164 Production record.
####### Information to be shown.

(b)The record shall show the name and formula number of the product, the actual quantities of all ingredients used in the manufacture of the batch (including the proof or alcohol percentage by volume of all spirits), the date when eligible spirits were considered used (see ยง 17.152), the effective tax rate applicable to those spirits (if other than the rate prescribed by 26 U.S.C. 5001), and the quantity of product produced. The alcohol content of the product shall be shown if a test of alcohol content was made (see paragraph (e) of this section). Usage of eligible and ineligible spirits shall be shown separately. If spirits from Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, containing at least 92% rum, were used, the record shall indicate their place of origin. If rum was used, the record shall indicate whether it was from Puerto Rico, from the U.S. Virgin Islands, imported from other countries, or domestic. If spirits were recovered, the production record shall so indicate, and the record required by ยง 17.168 shall be kept. If drawback is claimed on spirits consumed as an essential part of the manufacture of a nonbeverage product, which were not contained in that product at its completion, then the production record shall show the quantity of spirits so consumed in the manufacture of each batch.
