
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 4 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF WINE
##### Subpart D - Labeling Requirements for Wine
###### ยง 4.39 Prohibited practices.
####### Simulation of Government stamps.

(e)(1) No labels shall be of such design as to resemble or simulate a stamp of the United States Government or any State or foreign government. No label, other than stamps authorized or required by the United States Government or any State or foreign government, shall state or indicate that the wine contained in the labeled container is produced, blended, bottled, packed, or sold under, or in accordance with, any municipal, State or Federal Government authorization, law, or regulation, unless such statement is required or specifically authorized by Federal, State or municipal law or regulation, or is required or specifically authorized by the laws or regulations of a foreign country. If the municipal, State, or Federal Government permit number is stated upon a label, it shall not be accompanied by any additional statement relating thereto.

(2) Bonded wine cellar and bonded winery numbers may be stated but only in direct conjunction with the name and address of the person operating such wine cellar or winery. Statement of bonded wine cellar or winery numbers may be made in the following form: "Bonded Wine Cellar No. __", "Bonded Winery No. __", "B. W. C. No. __", "B. W. No. __". No additional reference thereto shall be made, nor shall any use be made of such statement that may convey the impression that the wine has been made or matured under Government supervision or in accordance with Government specifications or standards.

(3) If imported wines are covered by a certificate of origin and/or a certificate of vintage date issued by a duly authorized official of the appropriate foreign government, the label, except where prohibited by the foreign government, may refer to such certificate or the fact of such certification, but shall not be accompanied by any additional statements relating thereto. The reference to such certificate or certification shall be substantially in the following form:
