
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 19 - DISTILLED SPIRITS PLANTS
##### Subpart I - Distilled Spirits Taxes
###### Requirements for Filing Tax Returns
####### ยง 19.240 Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## General.,Criteria requiring ETF payment.

(a)-(1)Under certain conditions, a proprietor may not make payments by cash, check, or money order. Instead, the proprietor must use the services of a commercial bank to pay tax on distilled spirits tax by EFT. Payments must be made by EFT in the current calendar year if the proprietor, as a taxpayer, was liable for $5 million or more in taxes on distilled spirits during the prior calendar year. For the purpose of determining whether the proprietor is subject to this requirement, the proprietor must use the total amount of tax liability on distilled spirits incurred under this part and parts 26 and 27 of this chapter (gross tax liability). Gross tax liability includes the distilled spirits tax on all taxable withdrawals of spirits and taxable importations of spirits, as well as tax on spirits brought into the United States from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands during the calendar year. This figure includes taxes incurred at any and all premises at which the proprietor conducts regulated activities. The proprietor may not net out or adjust for any drawback, credits or refunds of tax that are allowed. Overpayments made in excess of actual tax liability will not be included in the gross tax liability figure.
