
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 19 - DISTILLED SPIRITS PLANTS
##### Subpart L - Production of Distilled Spirits
###### Rules for Redistillation
####### ยง 19.316 Redistillation.

(a) TTB has established standards of identity for the various classes and types of distilled spirits. Those standards are found in part 5 of this chapter. If a proprietor intends to redistill spirits, the proprietor must ensure that the redistillation process does not cause the distillate to be become ineligible for designation in the class or type of spirits that the proprietor intends to produce. Therefore, spirits must not be redistilled at a proof lower than that allowed for the class and type at which the spirits were originally produced, unless the redistilled spirits are to be:

(1) Used in wine production;

(2) Used in the manufacture of gin or vodka; or

(3) Designated as alcohol.

(b) In order to preserve the class and type of spirits during the redistillation process, different kinds of spirits must be redistilled separately, or with distilling material of the same kind or type as that from which the spirits were originally produced. However, this restriction does not apply when:

(1) Brandy is redistilled into "spirits-fruit" or "neutral spirits-fruit". In this case the resulting distillate must not be used for producing wine;

(2) Whiskey is redistilled into "spirits-grain" or "neutral spirits-grain";

(3) Spirits originally distilled from different kinds of material are redistilled into "spirits-mixed" or "neutral spirits-mixed"; or

(4) The spirits are redistilled into alcohol.

(c) All spirits redistilled after the production gauge will be treated the same as if the spirits had been originally produced by the redistiller. Spirits recovered by redistillation of denatured spirits, articles, or spirits residues may not be withdrawn from bonded premises except for industrial use or after denaturation. Otherwise, all provisions of this part and 26 U.S.C. chapter 51 applicable to the original production of spirits will be applicable to the redistillation of spirits. Nothing in this section affects any provision of this chapter relating to the labeling of distilled spirits.
