
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 19 - DISTILLED SPIRITS PLANTS
##### Subpart P - Transfers, Receipts, and Withdrawals
###### Spirits Withdrawn Free of Tax
####### ยง 19.427 Removal of denatured spirits and articles.
######## Samples of denatured spirits.

(c)(1) A proprietor may take samples of denatured spirits free of tax that are necessary for the conduct of business. A proprietor may furnish samples of specially denatured spirits:

(i) To dealers in, and users of, specially denatured spirits in advance of sales; or

(ii) To applicants or prospective applicants for permits to use specially denatured spirits for experimental purposes or for use in preparing samples of a finished product for submission to TTB.

(2) A proprietor must maintain records to ensure that samples of specially denatured spirits furnished to each nonpermittee do not exceed 5 gallons per calendar year. However, a proprietor may furnish samples in excess of 5 gallons to a nonpermittee if the consignee has provided the proprietor with a letterhead application approved under ยง 20.252 of this chapter. The proprietor must retain the approved letterhead application on file as a part of the record of transaction. For each shipment of a sample over the 5 gallon limit, the proprietor must prepare a record of shipment and forward the original to the consignee as provided in ยง 19.625. Each such sample must bear a label showing the word "Sample", the words "Specially Denatured Alcohol" or "Specially Denatured Rum" as applicable, the formula number, and the proprietor's name, address, and plant number. The proprietor must maintain records of samples of less than 5 gallons as provided in ยง 19.616.
