
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 19 - DISTILLED SPIRITS PLANTS
##### Subpart X - Distilled Spirits for Fuel Use
###### General
####### ยง 19.667 Emergency variations from requirements.
######## Terms of emergency method or procedure approval and use.

(c)(1) The proprietor may not use an emergency method or procedure until the application has been approved by TTB except when the emergency method or procedure requires immediate implementation to correct a situation that threatens life or property. In a situation involving a threat to life or property, the proprietor may implement the corrective action, immediately notify the appropriate TTB officer by telephone of the action and then file the required written application as soon as possible. Use of the emergency method or procedure must conform to any conditions specified in the approval.

(2) The proprietor must retain the emergency method or procedure approval as part of the proprietor's records and must make the approval available for examination by TTB officers upon request.

(3) The emergency method or procedure will automatically terminate when the situation that created the emergency no longer exists. TTB may withdraw the approval to use the emergency method or procedure if TTB finds that the revenue is jeopardized, that the emergency method or procedure hinders effective administration of the laws or regulations, or that the proprietor has failed to follow any of the conditions specified in the approval. When use of the emergency method or procedure terminates, the proprietor must revert to full compliance with all applicable regulations.
