
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 19 - DISTILLED SPIRITS PLANTS
##### Subpart X - Distilled Spirits for Fuel Use
###### Recordkeeping
####### ยง 19.716 Maintenance and retention of records.

(a) A proprietor of an alcohol fuel plant may keep the records required by this subpart at the alcohol fuel plant where operations or transactions occur, or at a central recordkeeping location maintained by the proprietor. If the proprietor keeps the required records at any location other than the alcohol fuel plant where operations or transactions occur, the proprietor must submit a letterhead notice to the appropriate TTB officer indicating the location where the records are kept. The proprietor must make those records available at the alcohol fuel plant premises to which they relate during normal business hours for the purpose of a TTB audit or inspection. The proprietor must produce those records at that location within two days of notice by the appropriate TTB officer.

(b) A proprietor of an alcohol fuel plant must maintain any records required by this subpart for a period of not less than three years from the date of creation of the record or the date of the last entry required to be made in the record, whichever is later.

(c) A proprietor of an alcohol fuel plant may be required to reproduce records in order to maintain their readability and availability for inspection. Whenever any record might become unreadable or otherwise unsuitable for its intended or continued use, the proprietor is responsible for reproducing the record by a process that accurately and legibly reproduces the original record.

(d) For records kept on electronic media, the provisions of ยง 19.574 apply.
