
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 19 - DISTILLED SPIRITS PLANTS
##### Subpart X - Distilled Spirits for Fuel Use
###### Recordkeeping
####### § 19.718 Required records.
######## Disposition records.

(b)The proprietor must maintain records of all dispositions of spirits and fuel alcohol removed from the alcohol fuel plant. Records for dispositions of fuel alcohol and spirits must be maintained separately. Required records include:

(1) The amount of fuel alcohol removed. The commercial record or other document required by § 19.729 will constitute the required record;

(2) The amount of spirits transferred. For all spirits transferred to another qualified distilled spirits plant or alcohol fuel plant the proprietor must maintain the commercial invoice or other documentation required by §§ 19.405 and 19.734;

(3) Record of other dispositions. If the proprietor has other dispositions of spirits or fuel alcohol such as losses, destruction, or redistillation, the proprietor must keep a record of those dispositions. The record must include the quantity of spirits (in proof gallons) or fuel alcohol (in wine gallons), the date of disposition, and the purpose for which used or the nature of any other disposition;

(4) Testing records. If the proprietor conducts testing and analysis of samples of spirits or fuel alcohol in accordance with § 19.749, the proprietor must keep a record of the date of the testing and the amount of spirits (in proof gallons) or fuel alcohol (in wine gallons) tested.
