
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 20 - DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF DENATURED ALCOHOL AND RUM
##### Subpart F - Formulas and Statements of Process
###### ยง 20.94 Statement of process.

(a) Manufacturers shall submit a statement of process on Form 5150.19, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, covering the following activities:

(1) If specially denatured spirits are used for laboratory or mechanical purposes, other than use of S.D.A. Formula No. 3-A, 3-C, or 30 for laboratory or mechanical purposes not in the development of a product;

(2) If specially denatured spirits are used in a manufacturing process in which none of the specially denatured spirits remains in the finished product;

(3) If specially denatured spirits, completely denatured alcohol, or articles are used in a manufacturing process and are to be recovered; or

(4) If recovered denatured spirits are to be redenatured.

(b) The manufacturer shall submit a separate Form 5150.19 for each activity described in paragraph (a) of this section describing the process completely.

(1) If specially denatured spirits are used for laboratory or mechanical purposes, other than use of S.D.A. Formula No. 3-A, 3-C, or 30 for laboratory or mechanical purposes not in the development of a product, the Form 5150.19 shall identify the formula number of specially denatured spirits, a description of the laboratory or mechanical use, and the approximate annual quantity to be used.

(2) If the Form 5150.19 is submitted covering activities described in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of this section, the Form 5150.19 shall also contain the following information:

(i) Flow diagrams shall be submitted with the Form 5150.19 clearly depicting the equipment in its relative operating sequence, with essential connecting pipelines and valves. All major equipment shall be identified as to its use. The direction of flow through the pipelines shall be indicated in the flow diagram. The flow diagram, shall be accompanied by a written description of the flow of materials through the system.

(ii) The statement of process shall describe the chemical composition of the recovered spirits. The statement of process shall be accompanied by a statement of the intended use of the recovered spirits.
