
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 20 - DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF DENATURED ALCOHOL AND RUM
##### Subpart G - Requirements Relating to Articles
###### ยง 20.134 Labeling.
####### Articles for external human use.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an article intended for external human use shall, before removal from the manufacturer's premises, have a label affixed to its immediate container identifying the name, trade name or brand name of the article. If the volume of the article in the container exceeds 8-fluid ounces, the label shall also show the information required by paragraph (b) (1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If the article was packaged or bottled by the person who manufactured it, the label shall identify-

(i) The manufacturer's name and the address (city and State) of the actual place or places where article was manufactured, or

(ii) The name and principal office address (city and State) of the manufacturer, and the permit number or numbers of the place or places of manufacture. However, in lieu of such permit number or numbers, the place or places where the manufacturing operation occurred may be indicated by a coding system. Prior to using a coding system, the manufacturer shall send a notice explaining the coding system to the appropriate TTB officer, or

(iii) The manufacturer's permit number and the name and address (city and State), of the person for whom the article was packaged and bottled.

(2) If the article was packaged or bottled by a person other than the manufacturer of the article, the label shall identify-

(i) The name and address (city and State) of the person by whom or for whom the article was packaged or bottled, and

(ii) The permit number of the manufacturer or distributor.

(3) If a permit number is required to be shown on the label, it may be shown utilizing a State code number, in accordance with ยง 20.135.
