
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 20 - DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF DENATURED ALCOHOL AND RUM
##### Subpart N - Use of Specially Denatured Spirits by the United States or Government Agency
###### ยง 20.242 Application and permit, Form 5150.33.

(a) All permits previously issued to the United States or any of its Government agencies on Form 1444 shall remain valid and will be regulated by the same provisions of this subpart as it refers to permits on Form 5150.33.

(b) A Government agency shall apply for a permit to obtain specially denatured spirits on Form 5150.33. Upon approval, Form 5150.33 will be returned to the Government agency, and will serve as authority to procure specially denatured spirits.

(c) A Government agency may specify on its application for a permit to procure specially denatured spirits, Form 5150.33, that it desires a single permit authorizing all sub-agencies under its control to procure specially denatured spirits; or each Government location (agency, department, bureau, etc.) desiring to procure specially denatured spirits may individually submit an application for a permit on Form 5150.33.

(d) An application for a permit shall be signed by the head of the agency or sub-agency or the incumbent of an office which is authorized by the head of the agency or sub-agency, to sign. Evidence of authorization to sign for the head of the agency or sub-agency shall be furnished with the application.

(e) Specially denatured spirits obtained by Government agencies may not be used for non-Government purposes.
