
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 22 - DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF TAX-FREE ALCOHOL
##### Subpart J - Recovery of Tax-Free Alcohol
###### ยง 22.133 Shipment for redistillation.

(a) Unless a permittee intends to redistill recovered alcohol to its original state, the recovered alcohol shall be shipped in containers to a distilled spirits plant for restoration.

(b) Containers shall be labeled with-

(1) The name, address, and permit number of permittee,

(2) The quantity of recovered alcohol in gallons,

(3) The words "Recovered tax-free alcohol", and

(4) A package identification number or serial number in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.

(c)(1) A package identification number shall apply to all of the packages filled at the same time. All of the packages in one lot shall be the same type, have the same rated capacity, and be uniformly filled with the same quantity. A package identification number shall be derived from the date on which the package is filled, and shall consist of the following elements, in the order shown-

(i) The last two digits of the calendar year;

(ii) An alphabetical designation from "A" through "L", representing January through December, in that order;

(iii) The digits corresponding to the day of the month; and

(iv) A letter suffix when more than one identical lot is filled into packages during the same day. For successive lots after the first lot, a letter suffix shall be added in alphabetical order, with "A" representing the second lot of the day, "B" representing the third lot of the day, etc. (e.g., the first three lots filled into packages on November 19, 1983, would be identified as "83K19," "83K19A," and "83K19B."

(2) A consecutive serial number shall be marked on each package, beginning with the number "1" and continuing in regular sequence. When any numbering series reaches "1,000,000," the user may recommence the series by providing an alphabetical prefix or suffix for each number in the new series.
