
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 24 - WINE
##### Subpart C - Administrative and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### Essences
####### ยง 24.86 Essences produced on wine premises.

Wine, taxpaid spirits, or spirits withdrawn tax-free may be used in the production of essences on wine premises. The description of the process for producing the essence may be included as part of a formula for the production of a formula wine or a separate formula may be filed on TTB F5120.29. If a separate formula is filed for the essence, the serial number of the formula by which it is produced will be shown in the TTB F 5120.29 covering the formula wine in which it is to be used. If an essence is to be made in quantities greater than required for individual lots of formula wine, and stored on the premises, a separate formula will be filed for the essence. Essences made on wine premises with wine spirits withdrawn free of tax pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 5214(a)(5) may only be used in the production of a formula wine, and may not be removed from the premises where made. Essences made on wine premises with the use of tax-free spirits withdrawn free of tax pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 5214(a)(13) may only be used in the production of a nonbeverage wine or wine product and may not be removed from the premises where made. The TTB F 5120.29 for the production of an essence is filed in the same manner as for the production of formula wine and a sample of the essence produced will be at least four fluid ounces.
