
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 24 - WINE
##### Subpart D - Establishment and Operations
###### Application
####### ยง 24.105 General.

A person desiring to establish a bonded winery, bonded wine cellar or taxpaid wine bottling house shall file an application on TTB F 5120.25, Application to Establish and Operate Wine Premises. Approval of TTB F 5120.25 will constitute authorization for the proprietor to operate. The premises may not be used for the conduct of operations under this part unless the proprietor has a valid approved application for the operations. The application will be executed under the penalties of perjury and all written statements, affidavits, and any document incorporated by reference will be considered a part of the application. In any instance where a bond is required to be given under ยง 24.146 or a permit obtained to engage in an operation, the currently approved application will not be valid with respect to that operation if the bond or permit is no longer in effect. In this case, the proprietor shall again file an application and obtain approval before engaging in operations at the wine premises. A new application is not required when a strengthening bond is filed pursuant to ยง 24.153 or a new bond or superseding bond is filed pursuant to ยง 24.154. The appropriate TTB officer may require the filing of a new or an amended application in any instance where the currently approved application is inadequate or incorrect in any respect.
