
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 24 - WINE
##### Subpart D - Establishment and Operations
###### Application
####### ยง 24.111 Description of premises.

The application will include a description of each tract of land comprising wine premises. The description will be by directions and distances, in feet and inches (or hundredths of feet), with sufficient particularity to enable ready determination of the bounds of the wine premises. When required by the appropriate TTB officer, a diagram of the wine premises, drawn to scale, will be furnished. The description will clearly indicate any area of the wine premises to be used as bonded wine premises, used as taxpaid wine premises, or alternated for use as bonded wine premises and taxpaid wine premises. The means employed to afford security and protect the revenue will be described. If required by the appropriate TTB officer to segregate operations within the premises, the manner by which the operations are segregated will be described. Each building on wine premises will be described as to size, construction, and use. Buildings on wine premises which will not be used for wine operations will be described only as to size and use. If the wine premises consist of a part of a building, the rooms or floors will be separately described. The activities conducted in the adjoining portions of the building and the means of ingress and egress from the wine premises will be described.
