
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 5 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
##### Subpart E - Mandatory Label Information
###### ยง 5.66 Name and address for domestically bottled distilled spirits that were wholly made in the United States.
####### Form of statement.

(b)The bottler, distiller, or processor of the distilled spirits must be identified by a phrase describing the function performed by that person. If that person performs more than one function, the label may (but is not required to) so indicate.

(1) If the name of the bottler appears on the label, it must be preceded by a phrase such as "bottled by," "canned by," "packed by," or "filled by," followed by the name and address of the bottler.

(2) If the name of the processor appears on the label, it must be preceded by a phrase such as "blended by," "made by," "prepared by," "produced by," or "manufactured by," as appropriate, followed by the name and address of the processor. When applied to distilled spirits, the term "produced by" indicates a processing operation (formerly known as rectification) that involves a change in the class or type of the product through the addition of flavors or some other processing activity.

(3) If the name of the distiller appears on the label, it must be preceded by a phrase such as "distilled by," followed by the name and address of the distiller. If the distilled spirits were bottled for the distiller thereof, the name and address of the distiller may be preceded by a phrase such as "distilled by and bottled for," or "bottled for."
