
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 24 - WINE
##### Subpart L - Storage, Treatment and Finishing of Wine
###### ยง 24.252 Salvaging accidentally diluted wine.
####### Removal of accidentally added water with TTB approval.

(b)If a proprietor accidentally adds water to standard wine and the accidentally added water represents more than 10 percent of the original volume of the wine, then the proprietor must request permission from TTB prior to treating the wine. A proprietor may submit an application requesting permission to treat the wine to remove the water and return the wine to its original condition. The removal of water may not be conducted until the appropriate TTB officer has approved the request. The application which is to be submitted to the appropriate TTB officer, must be in writing, must provide evidence of the exact amount of water accidentally added to the wine and an explanation of how the water was accidentally added, and must specify the method the proprietor will use to remove the water from the wine. In approving any request under this section, the appropriate TTB officer may require the proprietor to take steps to prevent future accidental additions of water to wine. In evaluating any request under this section, the appropriate TTB officer may consider as a factor whether the proprietor has demonstrated good commercial practices, taking into account the proprietor's prior history of accidental addition of water to wine and of compliance with other regulations in this part.
