
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 24 - WINE
##### Subpart N - Removal, Return and Receipt of Wine
###### Taxpaid Removals
####### ยง 24.272 Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## General.

(a)(1) During a calendar year any proprietor who is liable for a gross amount of wine excise tax equal to or exceeding $5 million combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 26 and 27 of this chapter, shall during the succeeding calendar year use a financial institution in making payment by electronic fund transfer (EFT) of wine taxes for that year. A proprietor who is required by this section to make remittance by EFT may not effect payment of wine taxes by cash, check, or money order as described in ยง 24.271.

(2) For the purposes of this section, the dollar amount of tax liability is defined as the gross tax liability on all taxable withdrawals and importations (including wines brought into the United States from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands) during the calendar year, without regard to any drawback, credit, or refund, for all premises from which the activities are conducted by the proprietor.

(3) For the purposes of this section, a proprietor includes a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 5061 (e)(3). Also, the rules for a "controlled group of corporations" apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50 percent control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of determining who is required to make remittances by EFT.

(4) A proprietor who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT shall, for each bonded wine premises from which wine is withdrawn upon determination of tax, make a separate EFT remittance and file a separate tax return.
