
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 24 - WINE
##### Subpart N - Removal, Return and Receipt of Wine
###### Taxpaid Removals
####### ยง 24.272 Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## Requirements.

(b)(1) On or before January 10 of each calendar year, except for a proprietor already remitting the tax by EFT, each proprietor who was liable during the previous calendar year for a gross amount of wine excise tax equal to or exceeding $5 million, combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 26 and 27 of this chapter, shall give written notice to the appropriate TTB officer agreeing to make remittances by EFT.

(2) For each return filed in accordance with this subpart, the proprietor shall direct the proprietor's financial institution to make an electronic fund transfer in the amount of the taxpayment to the Treasury Account as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. The request will be made to the financial institution early enough for the transfer of funds to be made to the Treasury Account by no later than the close of business on the last day for filing the return as prescribed in ยง 24.271. The request will take into account any time limit established by the financial institution.

(3) If the proprietor was liable during the preceding calendar year for less than $5 million in wine excise taxes, combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 26 and 27 of this chapter, the proprietor may choose either to continue remitting the tax as provided in this section or to remit the tax with return as prescribed by ยง 24.271. Upon filing the first return on which the proprietor chooses to discontinue remittance of the tax by EFT and to begin remittance of the tax with the tax return, the proprietor shall notify the appropriate TTB officer by attaching a written notification to the tax form stating that no wine excise tax is due by EFT because the tax liability during the preceding calendar year was less than $5 million, and that the remittance will be filed with the tax return.
