
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 5 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
##### Subpart E - Mandatory Label Information
###### ยง 5.67 Name and address for domestically bottled distilled spirits that were bottled after importation.
####### Form of address.

(e)(1) The address consists of the city and State where the operation occurred, or the city and State of the principal place of business of the person performing the operation. This information must be consistent with the information on the basic permit. Addresses may, but are not required to, include additional information such as street names, counties, zip codes, phone numbers, and website addresses.

(2) If the bottler or processor listed on the name and address statement is the actual operator of more than one distilled spirits plant engaged in bottling, distilling, or processing operations, as applicable, the label may state, immediately following the name of the bottler, the addresses of those other plants, in addition to the address of the plant at which the distilled spirits were bottled. In this situation, the address where the operation occurred must be indicated on the label or on the container by printing, coding, or other markings.

(3) The label may provide the address of the bottler's or processor's principal place of business, in lieu of the place where the bottling, distilling, or other operation occurred, provided that the address where the operation occurred is indicated on the label or on the container by printing, coding, or other markings.
