
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 25 - BEER
##### Subpart C - Location and Use of Brewery
###### ยง 25.25 Operation of a tavern on brewery premises.
####### Procedures.

(c)The following procedures shall apply to operation of a tavern on brewery premises:

(1) The brewery shall have a suitable method for measurement of the beer, such as a meter or gauge glass. Tax determination shall consist of the measurement of the beer and the preparation of the brewer's record of tax determination, required by ยง 25.292(a)(8). The taxes shall be determined prior to the time that the beer is dispensed into a container for consumption.

(2) If the brewer uses one or more tanks for tax determination, the following procedures shall apply:

(i) Each such tank shall be durably marked with the words "tax-determination tank";

(ii) The taxes shall be determined each time beer is added to a tax-determination tank; and

(iii) The brewer may never simultaneously pump into and out of a tax-determination tank.

(3) A brewer qualified under this section may store, on brewery premises, tax-determined beer which is intended for sale at a tavern operated on brewery premises, in accordance with this section. The prohibition of ยง 25.24 shall not apply to such tax-determined beer.

(4) Beer consumed by employees and visitors in the brewery's tavern shall be beer on which the tax has been paid or determined.
