
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 25 - BEER
##### Subpart K - Tax on Beer
###### Preparation and Remittance of Tax Returns
####### ยง 25.165 Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## Eligible brewers.

(a)(1) Each taxpayer who was liable, during a calendar year, for a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in beer taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 26 and 27 of this chapter, shall use a commercial bank in making payment by electronic fund transfer (EFT) of beer taxes during the succeeding calendar year. Payment of beer taxes by cash, check, or money order, as described in ยง 25.163, is not authorized for a taxpayer who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT. For purposes of this section, the dollar amount of tax liability is defined as the gross tax liability on all taxable removals, determined in accordance with ยง 25.159, and importations (including beer brought into the United States from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands) during the calendar year, without regard to any drawbacks, credits, or refunds, for all premises from which such activities are conducted by the taxpayer. Overpayments are not taken into account in summarizing the gross tax liability.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a taxpayer includes a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563, and implementing regulations in 26 CFR 1.1563-1 through 1.1563-4, except that the words "at least 80 percent" shall be replaced by the words "more than 50 percent" in each place it appears in subsection (a) of 26 U.S.C. 1563, as well as in the implementing regulations. Also, the rules for a "controlled group of corporations" apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50% control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of determining who is required to make remittances by EFT.

(3) A taxpayer who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT shall make a separate EFT remittance and file a separate return, Form 5000.24, for each brewery from which beer is removed upon determination of tax.
