
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 26 - LIQUORS AND ARTICLES FROM PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - Taxpayment of Liquors and Articles in Puerto Rico
###### Payment of Tax by Return
####### ยง 26.112a Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## General.

(a)(1) Each taxpayer who was liable, during a calendar year, for a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in distilled spirits taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 19 and 27 of this chapter, a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in wine taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 24 and 27 of this chapter, or a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in beer taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 25 and 27 of this chapter, shall use a commercial bank in making payment by electronic fund transfer (EFT) of such taxes during the succeeding calendar year. Payment by cash, check, or money order, of distilled spirits taxes, wine taxes, or beer taxes, as described in ยง 26.112, is not authorized for a taxpayer who is required, by this section, to make remittances by EFT. For purposes of this section, the dollar amount of tax liability is to be summarized separately for distilled spirits taxes, wine taxes, or beer taxes, and is defined as the gross tax liability on each type of product for which taxes are paid in accordance with this subpart, taxable withdrawals from premises in the United States, and importation during the calendar year, without regard to any drawbacks, credits, or refunds, for all premises at which tax liabilities are incurred by the taxpayer. Overpayments are not taken into account in summarizing the gross tax liability.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a taxpayer includes a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563, and implementing regulations in 26 CFR 1.1563-1 through 1.1563-4, except that the words "at least 80 percent" shall be replaced by the words "more than 50 percent" in each place it appears in subsection (a) of 26 U.S.C. 1563, as well as in the implementing regulations. Also, the rules for a "controlled group of corporations" apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50% control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of determining who is required to make remittances by EFT.

(3) A taxpayer who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT, shall make a separate EFT remittance and file a separate tax return, for each premises from which distilled spirits, wine, or beer is withdrawn upon determination of tax.
