
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 26 - LIQUORS AND ARTICLES FROM PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - Taxpayment of Liquors and Articles in Puerto Rico
###### Payment of Tax by Return
####### ยง 26.112a Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## Requirements.

(b)(1) On or before January 10 of each calendar year, except for a taxpayer already remitting the tax by EFT, each taxpayer who was liable for a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in distilled spirits taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 19 and 27 of this chapter, a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in wine taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 24 and 27 of this chapter, or a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in beer taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 25 and 27 of this chapter during the previous calendar year, shall notify, in writing, the appropriate TTB officer. The notice shall be an agreement to make remittances by EFT.

(2) For each return filed in accordance with this part, the taxpayer shall direct the taxpayer's bank to make an electronic fund transfer in the amount of the taxpayment to the Treasury Account as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. The request shall be made to the bank early enough for the transfer to be made to the Treasury Account by no later than the close of business on the last day for filing the return, prescribed in ยง 26.112 or ยง 26.113. The request shall take into account any time limit established by the bank.

(3) If a taxpayer was liable for less than five million dollars in distilled spirits taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 19 and 27 of this chapter, less than five million dollars in wine taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 24 and 27 of this chapter, or less than five million dollars in beer taxes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and parts 25 and 27 of this chapter during the preceding calendar year, the taxpayer may choose either to continue remitting the tax as provided in this section or to remit the tax with the return as prescribed by ยง 26.112. Upon filing the first return on which the taxpayer chooses to discontinue remitting the tax by EFT and to begin remitting the tax with the tax return, the taxpayer shall notify the appropriate TTB officer by attaching a written notification to the tax return, stating that no taxes are due by EFT, because the tax liability during the preceding calendar year was less than five million dollars, and that the remittance shall be filed with the tax return.
