
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 26 - LIQUORS AND ARTICLES FROM PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - Taxpayment of Liquors and Articles in Puerto Rico
###### Permit To Ship Liquors and Articles
####### ยง 26.116 Issuance of permit, TTB Form 5170.7, and customs inspection.

If the application has been properly executed and the Secretary, or his delegate, finds that all internal revenue taxes imposed under 26 U.S.C. 7652(a), have been computed under the provisions of this part and have been paid or have been deferred under the applicable provisions of this part, he will execute his permit on all copies thereof, retain one copy of the form, return two copies to the shipper, and send three copies to the district director of customs in Puerto Rico. The shipper will submit the two copies of the TTB Form 5170.7 to the district director of customs at least six hours prior to the intended lading of the merchandise. The district director of customs will then inspect the merchandise covered by the TTB Form 5170.7 after which he will execute his certificate on each copy of TTB Form 5170.7 indicating all exceptions. If discrepancies appear indicating differences between the quantity covered by TTB Form 5170.7 and the quantity actually contained in the shipment or the improper tax payment of the merchandise, he will withhold release of the shipment and notify the Secretary of such discrepancies. Thereupon, such discrepancies must be corrected in the shipping documents and additional tax paid, if required, prior to release of the merchandise. The district director of customs, upon release of the merchandise for shipment, will retain one copy of the TTB Form 5170.7, return two copies to the shipper, and send two copies to the district director of customs at the port of arrival in the United States, one of which should be mailed and the other dispatched on the vessel concerned for the guidance of the appropriate TTB officer who will handle the cargo. After the shipment has been cleared by the district director of customs in Puerto Rico, the shipper shall retain one copy of the TTB Form 5170.7 and send one copy thereof, with other shipping documents, to the district director of customs at the port of arrival.
