
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 26 - LIQUORS AND ARTICLES FROM PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart E - Taxpayment of Liquors and Articles in Puerto Rico
###### Procedure at Port of Arrival
####### ยง 26.118 Inspection by district director of customs at port of arrival.

On receipt of properly executed TTB Form 5170.7 from the shipper and the copies of TTB Form 5170.7 from the district director of customs in Puerto Rico, the district director of customs at the port of arrival shall inspect the merchandise to determine whether the quantity specified on the TTB Form 5170.7 is contained in the shipment. He will then execute his certificate on each copy of TTB Form 5170.7 received and indicate thereon any exceptions found at the time of discharge. The statement of exceptions should show the serial number of each case or other shipping container which sustained a loss, the quantity of liquor reported shipped in such container and the quantity lost. Losses occurring as the result of missing bottles, cases, or other containers should be listed separately from empty containers and containers which have sustained losses due to breakage. Where the statement is made on the basis of bottles missing or lost due to other cause, the number and size of bottles lost should be shown. If the district director of customs finds that the full amount of the taxes due has not been paid, he will require the difference due to be paid prior to release of the merchandise in accordance with the applicable provisions of this part. When the proper inspection of the merchandise has been effected, and any additional taxes found to be due on the liquors or articles collected, the merchandise will be released.
