
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 26 - LIQUORS AND ARTICLES FROM PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart J - Products Coming Into the United States From the Virgin Islands
###### § 26.205 Certificate.

(a) Every person bringing liquors or articles under this part into the United States from the Virgin Islands, except tourists, shall obtain a certificate in the English language from the manufacturer for each shipment showing the following information:

(1) The name and address of the consignee.

(2) The kind and brand name.

(3) The quantity thereof as follows-

(i) If distilled spirits, the proof gallons or liters and degree of proof;

(ii) If wine, the taxable grade and wine gallons;

(iii) If beer, the gallons (liquid measure) and the percentage of alcohol by volume; and

(iv) If articles, the kind, quantity, and proof of the liquors used therein.

(4) For liquors manufactured under a formula-

(i) The number and date of the approved formula;

(ii) A declaration that the liquors have been manufactured in accordance with the approved formula; and

(iii) The name and address of the person filing the formula.

(5) The name and address of the producer.

(6) For liquors and articles containing liquors produced outside of the Virgin Islands, the country of origin for each such liquor.

(7) For distilled spirits, a certification by the insular gauger as to whether they were regauged when withdrawn from the insular bonded warehouse and, if regauged, whether they were at the time of withdrawal at the proof indicated on the attached record of gauge.

(8) For distilled spirits which contain eligible wine or eligible flavors, the effective tax rate applied to the product and the elements necessary to compute the effective tax rate in accordance with § 26.262a as follows-

(i) Proof gallons of distilled spirits (exclusive of distilled spirits derived from eligible flavors);

(ii) Wine gallons of each eligible wine and the percentage of alcohol by volume of each;

(iii) Proof gallons of distilled spirits derived from eligible flavors; and

(iv) On or after December 1, 1990, the name of the manufacturer, formula number from TTB F 5530.5 (1678) or 5150.19 and date of approval or the date of the statement of eligibility for each eligible flavor (See § 26.204a); and

(v) After December 1, 1990, the date of the statement of eligibility for each eligible wine.

(b) The person bringing the liquors into the United States must file the information required under § 26.200, in accordance with that section.

(c) The person bringing liquors into the United States from the Virgin Islands must maintain a copy of the certificate described in paragraph (a) of this section along with records to substantiate the information on the certificate, including information required under § 26.204, in accordance with the record retention requirements of § 26.276 and must make them available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer.

(d) For distilled spirits, natural wine, or beer withdrawn from customs custody under the provisions of subpart Oa of this part, the importer must furnish a copy of the certificate to the proprietor of the receiving distilled spirits plant, bonded wine cellar, or brewery.
