
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 5 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
##### Subpart I - Standards of Identity for Distilled Spirits
###### ยง 5.143 Whisky.
####### Label designations.,e.g.,

(b)The word whisky may be spelled as either "whisky" or "whiskey". The place, State, or region where the whisky was distilled may appear as part of the designation on the label if the distillation and any required aging took place in that location ("New York Bourbon Whisky" must be distilled and aged in the State of New York); however, blending and bottling need not have taken place in the same place, State, or region. However, if any whisky is made partially from whisky distilled in a country other than that indicated by the type designation, the label must indicate the percentage of such whisky and the country where that whisky was distilled. Additionally, the label of whisky that does not meet one of the standards for specific types of whisky and that is comprised of components distilled in more than one country must contain a statement of composition indicating the country of origin of each component (such as "Whisky-50% from Japan, 50% from the United States"). The word "bourbon" may not be used to describe any whisky or whisky-based distilled spirits not distilled and aged in the United States. The whiskies defined in paragraphs (c)(2) through (6) and (10) through (14) of this section are distinctive products of the United States and must have the country of origin stated immediately adjacent to the type designation if it is distilled outside of the United States, or the whisky designation must be proceeded by the term "American type" if the country of origin appears elsewhere on the label. For example, "Brazilian Corn Whisky," "Rye Whisky distilled in Sweden," and "Blended Whisky-Product of Japan" are statements that meet this country of origin requirement. "Light whisky", "Blended light whisky", and "Whisky distilled from bourbon (rye, wheat, malt, rye malt, or other named grain) mash" may only be produced in the United States.
