
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 5 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
##### Subpart I - Standards of Identity for Distilled Spirits
###### ยง 5.143 Whisky.
####### Types of whisky.

(c)The following tables set out the designations for whisky. Table 1 sets forth the standards for whisky that are defined based on production, storage, and processing standards, while Table 2 sets forth rules for the types of whisky that are defined as distinctive products of certain foreign countries. For the whiskies listed in Table 1, a domestic whisky may be labeled with the designation listed, when it complies with the production standards in the subsequent columns. The "source" column indicates the source of the grain mash used to make the whisky. The "distillation proof" indicates the allowable distillation proof for that type. The "storage" column indicates the type of packages (barrels) in which the spirits must be stored and limits for the proof of the spirits when entering the packages. The "neutral spirits permitted" column indicates whether neutral spirits may be used in the product in their original state (and not as vehicles for flavoring materials), and if so, how much may be used. The "harmless coloring, flavoring, blending materials permitted" column indicates whether harmless coloring, flavoring, or blending materials, other than neutral spirits in their original form, described in ยง 5.142, may be used in the product. The use of the word "straight" is a further designation of a type, and is optional.
