
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 26 - LIQUORS AND ARTICLES FROM PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
##### Subpart Oa - Shipment of Bulk Distilled Spirits From the Virgin Islands, Without Payment of Tax, for Transfer From Customs Custody to the Bonded Premises of a Distilled Spirits Plant
###### § 26.301 Record of shipment.
####### Preparation of records.

(a)(1) The importer bringing distilled spirits, natural wines, or beer into the United States from the Virgin Islands under this subpart must prepare a transfer record according to § 26.273a. A separate transfer record must be prepared for each conveyance. The importer bringing in the distilled spirits, natural wines, or beer must maintain these records and any additional records necessary to substantiate the information provided under paragraph (b) of this section, in accordance with the record retention requirements of § 26.276, and must make them available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. The importer must also provide a copy of the record to the recipient, if the recipient is not the importer.

(2) For distilled spirits, if the spirits are in packages, the person bringing the spirits into the United States must be in possession of a package gauge record for each bulk container, as provided in § 26.273b, at the time the distilled spirits are withdrawn from customs custody. The package gauge record may be prepared by the insular gauger at the time of their withdrawal from an insular bonded warehouse, as provided in § 26.204, or, if not prepared by the insular gauger, the package gauge record must be prepared by the insular consignor.
