
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 27 - IMPORTATION OF DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINES, AND BEER
##### Subpart E - General Requirements
###### Wine and Flavors Content of Distilled Spirits
####### § 27.77 Standard effective tax rate.

(a) In lieu of preparing a certificate of effective tax rate computation each time distilled spirits containing eligible wine or eligible flavors are imported as prescribed in § 27.76(c), an importer may have a standard effective tax rate established based on the least quantity and the lowest alcohol content of eligible wine or eligible flavors used in the manufacture of the product.

(b) To have a standard effective tax rate established, the importer shall cause to be submitted to the TTB Alcohol and Tobacco Laboratory, 6000 Ammendale Road, Ammendale, MD 20705, the following:

(1) The samples prescribed in § 27.76(b)(1) and an 8-ounce sample of the finished product;

(2) The statement of composition prescribed in § 27.76(b)(2);

(3) A statement of composition for the finished product listing the-

(i) Name of the product;

(ii) Quantity, alcohol content (percentage of alcohol by volume), and the kind (class and type) of each eligible wine or the name of each eligible flavor used in the manufacture of the product; and

(iii) Standard effective tax rate for the product computed in accordance with § 27.41.

(c) Where a standard effective tax rate has been previously approved for a product, an importer, in lieu of having a standard effective tax rate established, may use that rate. An importer desiring to use a previously approved standard effective tax rate shall obtain a copy of the approval from the person to whom it was issued and, over the signature of the importer or other duly authorized person, place the following declaration:

(d) A standard effective tax rate may not be employed until approved by the appropriate TTB officer. At the time of filing the entry summary, the importer must have the approval in its possession and make it available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. The use of a standard effective tax rate shall not relieve an importer from the payment of any tax found to be due. The appropriate TTB officer may at any time require an importer to immediately discontinue the use of a standard effective tax rate.

(e) The importer must maintain a copy of the approval in accordance with the record retention requirements of § 27.137 and must make it available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer.

(f) For distilled spirits withdrawn from customs custody under the provisions of subpart L of this part, the importer must furnish a copy of the approval to the proprietor of the distilled spirits plant to which the distilled spirits are transferred.
