
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 27 - IMPORTATION OF DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINES, AND BEER
##### Subpart I - Importer's Records and Reports
###### Other Records
####### ยง 27.140 Certification requirements for wine.
######## Certification,General.

(b)- (1)Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an importer of natural wine must have an original or copy of a certification from the producing country stating that the practices and procedures used to produce the imported wine constitute proper cellar treatment. The importer of bottled wine must be in possession of the certificate at the time of filing the entry with CBP, and the bottler of bulk wine must be in possession of the certificate at the time the wine is withdrawn from the premises where bottled. The importer or bottler, as appropriate, must provide the certificate upon request by the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. This requirement may be satisfied by providing the original certification, or a photocopy or electronic copy of the certification. The appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer may request, and the importer or bottler must provide, such information for a period of three years from the date that the product covered by the certificate was released from customs custody or removed from the bottler's premises, as applicable. The certification:

(i) Must be from a governmental or government-approved entity having oversight or control over enological practices in the producing country under the laws of that country;

(ii) Must include the results of a laboratory analysis of the wine conducted either by a government laboratory of the producing country or by a laboratory certified by the government of the producing country; and

(iii) Must be in the possession of the importer at the time of release of the wine from customs custody and may cover multiple importations provided that the wine in each case is of the same brand and class or type, was made by the same producer, was subjected to the same cellar treatment, and conforms to the statements made on the certification.
