
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 27 - IMPORTATION OF DISTILLED SPIRITS, WINES, AND BEER
##### Subpart I - Importer's Records and Reports
###### Other Records
####### ยง 27.140 Certification requirements for wine.
######## Alternative certifications and exemptions

(2)-(i) The following are alternatives to the producing country certification and laboratory analysis requirement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(A) In the case of natural wine produced and imported subject to an international agreement or treaty specifying that the practices and procedures used to produce the wine are acceptable to the United States, no producing country certification and laboratory analysis is required, unless that international agreement or treaty requires a certification, in which case the importer must have in his or her possession at the time of release of the wine from customs custody an original or copy of that certification.

(B) If an importer of natural wine or its affiliate owns or controls a winery operating under a basic permit issued under part 1 of this chapter, in lieu of a producing country certification and laboratory analysis, the importer may self-certify that the practices and procedures used to produce the wine constitute proper cellar treatment. The self-certification must be either in the format set forth in paragraph (c) of this section with blocks 1 through 4 completed or in an alternative format that sets forth the same information, and it must be in the possession of the importer at the time of release of the wine from customs custody. In the case of self-certification the importer also must have at the time of release from customs custody records to establish that the requirements for self-certification are met.

(ii) The following are exempt from any certification requirement under this section:

(A) Natural wine produced before January 1, 2005. However, in this case, the importer must have in his or her possession at the time of release of the wine from customs custody records to establish that the wine was produced before January 1, 2005.

(B) Importations of natural wine that are of a personal, non-commercial nature. Examples of non-commercial importations include importations by travelers, gift shipments between individuals, and importations by diplomats for embassy or consular use.

(C) Importations of natural wine that constitute commercial samples. Commercial samples include sales samples, samples for trade shows, and samples for laboratory analysis.

(D) Imported natural wine held on board international passenger carriers, such as cruise ships or airliners.
