
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 5 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
##### Subpart I - Standards of Identity for Distilled Spirits
###### ยง 5.154 Rules for geographical designations.
####### Geographical designations.

(a)(1) Geographical names for distinctive types of distilled spirits (other than names found by the appropriate TTB officer under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to have become generic) may not be applied to distilled spirits produced in any other place than the particular region indicated by the name, unless:

(i) There appears the word "type" or the word "American" or some other adjective indicating the true place of production, in lettering substantially as conspicuous as such name; and

(ii) The distilled spirits to which the name is applied conform to the distilled spirits of that particular region. The following are examples of distinctive types of distilled spirits with geographical names that have not become generic: Eau de Vie de Dantzig (Danziger Goldwasser), Ojen, Swedish punch. Geographical names for distinctive types of distilled spirits may be used to designate only distilled spirits conforming to the standard of identity, if any, for such type specified in this section, or if no such standard is so specified, then in accordance with the trade understanding of that distinctive type.

(2) Only such geographical names for distilled spirits as the appropriate TTB officer finds have by usage and common knowledge lost their geographical significance to such extent that they have become generic shall be deemed to have become generic. Examples are London dry gin, Geneva (Hollands) gin.

(3) Geographical names that are not names for distinctive types of distilled spirits, and that have not become generic, shall not be applied to distilled spirits produced in any other place than the particular place or region indicated in the name. Examples are Armagnac, Greek brandy, Jamaica rum, Puerto Rico rum, Demerara rum and Andong Soju.
