
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 28 - EXPORTATION OF ALCOHOL
##### Subpart H - Withdrawal of Specially Denatured Spirits, Free of Tax, for Exportation or Transfer to a Foreign-Trade Zone
###### Return of Specially Denatured Spirits to Bonded Premises
####### ยง 28.161 Notice of return of specially denatured spirits.

If a proprietor of a distilled spirits plant desires to return specially denatured spirits to his plant as provided in ยง 28.160, he shall file a notice with the appropriate TTB officer. A copy of the notice shall be prepared for submission to the customs official, as required by ยง 28.162. The notice shall be executed under the penalties of perjury and shall show:

(a) Name, address, and plant number of the distilled spirits plant to which the specially denatured spirits are to be returned.

(b) Name, address, and plant number of the distilled spirits plant from which the specially denatured spirits were withdrawn.

(c) Serial number of the TTB Form 5100.11 and the date withdrawn.

(d) Present location of specially denatured spirits to be returned.

(e) Description of the specially denatured spirits-kind, serial numbers of containers, and quantity in wine gallons.

(f) Reason for return of the specially denatured spirits.

(g) Disposition to be made of specially denatured spirits, i.e. redistillation or return to processing on the bonded premises.
