
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 28 - EXPORTATION OF ALCOHOL
##### Subpart N - Proceedings at Ports of Export
###### Lading for Use on Aircraft
####### ยง 28.280 Distilled spirits and wines.

When an airline desires to withdraw distilled spirits or wines from its stock being held at the airport under customs custody, for use on a particular aircraft, a requisition in triplicate shall be prepared for presentation to the customs officer. The requisition shall show the flight number, the registry number of the aircraft on which the distilled spirits or wines are to be laden, the country for which the aircraft is to be cleared, the date of departure of the aircraft, and the brand, kind, and quantity of distilled spirits or wines. Where the distilled spirits or wines are contained in kits which have been previously prepared while under customs custody, the kit number shall also be shown on the requisition. Where the kits are not prepared and the distilled spirits or wines are withdrawn for direct lading on aircraft, the requisition shall be serially numbered in lieu of the insertion of the kit number. When the distilled spirits or wines are withdrawn and laden aboard the aircraft, the lading shall be verified by the customs officer by an appropriate stamp or notation on the requisition. One copy of the requisition shall be retained by the customs officer who certifies to the lading for attachment to the outgoing manifest. The other two copies shall be delivered to the airline which shall retain both copies until the return of the flight. In case any of the distilled spirits or wines are removed from the aircraft on its return, they shall be returned to customs custody, appropriate notation made on both copies of the requisition retained by the airline and one copy shall be delivered to the customs officer for attachment to the incoming manifest. The remaining copy shall be retained by the airline.
