
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 5 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
##### Subpart N - Advertising of Distilled Spirits
###### ยง 5.235 Prohibited practices.
####### Restrictions.

(a)An advertisement of distilled spirits shall not contain:

(1) Any statement that is false or untrue in any material particular, or that, irrespective of falsity, directly, or by ambiguity, omission, or inference, or by the addition of irrelevant, scientific or technical matter tends to create a misleading impression.

(2) Any false or misleading statement that explicitly or implicitly disparages a competitor's product. This does not prevent truthful and accurate comparisons between products (such as, "Our liqueur contains more strawberries than Brand X") or statements of opinion (such as, "We think our rum tastes better than any other distilled spirits on the market").

(3) Any statement, design, device, or representation which is obscene or indecent.

(4) Any statement, design, device, or representation of or relating to analyses, standards or tests, irrespective of falsity, which the appropriate TTB officer finds to be likely to mislead the consumer.

(5) Any statement, design, device, or representation of or relating to any guarantee, irrespective of falsity, which the appropriate TTB officer finds to be likely to mislead the consumer. Money-back guarantees are not prohibited.

(6) The words "bond", "bonded", "bottled in bond", "aged in bond", or phrases containing these or synonymous terms, unless such words or phrases appear, pursuant to ยง 5.88, on labels of the distilled spirits advertised, and are stated in the advertisement in the manner and form in which they are permitted to appear on the label.

(7) The word "pure" unless:

(i) It refers to a particular ingredient used in the production of the distilled spirits, and is a truthful representation about the ingredient; or

(ii) It is part of the bona fide name of a permittee or retailer from whom the distilled spirits are bottled; or

(iii) It is part of the bona fide name of the permittee who bottled the distilled spirits.

(8) The words "double distilled" or "triple distilled" or any similar terms unless it is a truthful statement of fact. For purposes of this paragraph only, a distillation means a single run through a pot still or a single run through a column of a column (reflux) still. The number of distillations may be understated but may not be overstated.
