
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 31 - ALCOHOL BEVERAGE DEALERS
##### Subpart G - Registration Form, TTB F 5630.5d
###### ยง 31.114 Completion of registration form.
####### Preparation of TTB Form 5630.5d.

(b)All of the information called for on TTB Form 5630.5d must be provided. This information includes the following:

(1) The true name of the dealer.

(2) The trade name(s) (if any) of the business(es) subject to the registration requirement.

(3) The employer identification number (see ยง 31.115).

(4) The mailing address of the dealer's principal place of business (or principal office, in the case of a corporate dealer).

(5) The exact location of each place of business, by name and number of building or street, or if these do not exist, by some specific description in addition to the post office address.

(6) The business telephone number of each place of business.

(7) The class(es) of dealer in which the dealer operates a business.

(8) Ownership and control information. This consists of the name, position, and residence address of every owner of the business and of every person having power to control its management and policies with respect to the activity subject to registration. "Owner of the business" includes every partner, if the dealer is a partnership, and every person owning 10 percent or more of its stock, if the dealer is a corporation. However, the ownership and control information required by this paragraph need not be stated if the same information has been previously provided to TTB and that previously provided information is still current.
