
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 40 - MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, AND PROCESSED TOBACCO
##### Subpart I - Claims by Manufacturers
###### General
####### ยง 40.282 Allowance of tax.

Relief from the payment of tax on tobacco products may be extended to a manufacturer by allowance of the tax where the tobacco products after removal from the factory upon determination of tax and prior to the payment of such tax, are lost (otherwise than by theft) or destroyed, by fire, casualty, or act of God, while in the possession or ownership of the manufacturer who removed such products, or are withdrawn by him from the market. Any claim for allowance under this section shall be filed on TTB F 5620.8, in duplicate, with the appropriate TTB officer, and shall show the date the tobacco products were removed from the factory. A claim relating to products lost or destroyed shall be supported as prescribed in ยง 40.301. In the case of a claim relating to tobacco products withdrawn from the market the schedule prescribed in ยง 40.311 shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer. The manufacturer may not anticipate allowance of his claim by making the adjusting entry in a tax return pending consideration and action on the claim. Tobacco products to which such a claim relates must be shown as removed on determination of tax in the return covering the period during which such products were so removed. Upon action on the claim by the appropriate TTB officer he will return the copy of TTB F 5620.8 to the manufacturer as notice of such action, which copy, with the copy of any verified supporting schedules, shall be retained by the manufacturer. When such notification of allowance of the claim or any part thereof is received prior to the time the return covering the tax on the tobacco products to which the claim relates is to be filed, the manufacturer may make an adjusting entry and explanatory statement in that tax return. Where the notice of allowance is received after the filing of the return and taxpayment of the tobacco products to which the claim relates, the manufacturer may make an adjusting entry and explanatory statement in the next tax return(s) to the extent necessary to take credit in the amount of the allowance.
