
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 40 - MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, AND PROCESSED TOBACCO
##### Subpart I - Claims by Manufacturers
###### General
####### § 40.283 Credit or refund of tax.

The taxes paid on tobacco products may be credited or refunded (without interest) to a manufacturer on proof satisfactory to the appropriate TTB officer that the claimant manufacturer paid the tax on tobacco products lost (otherwise than by theft) or destroyed, by fire, casualty, or act of God, while in the possession or ownership of such manufacturer, or withdrawn by him from the market. Any claim for credit or refund under this section shall be prepared on TTB F 5620.8, in duplicate. Claims shall include a statement that the tax imposed on tobacco products by 26 U.S.C. 7652 or chapter 52, was paid in respect to the tobacco products covered by the claim, and that the products were lost, destroyed, or withdrawn from the market within 6 months preceding the date the claim is filed. A claim for credit or refund relating to products lost or destroyed shall be supported as prescribed in § 40.301, and a claim relating to products withdrawn from the market shall be accompanied by a schedule prepared and verified as prescribed in §§ 40.311 and 40.313. The original and one copy of TTB F 5620.8, claim for credit, or the original of TTB F 5620.8, claim for refund, shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer. Upon action by the appropriate TTB officer on a claim for credit he will return the copy of TTB F 5620.8 to the manufacturer as notification of allowance or disallowance of the claim or any part thereof, which copy, with the copy of any verified supporting schedules, shall be retained by the manufacturer. When the manufacturer is notified of allowance of the claim for credit or any part thereof he shall make an adjusting entry and explanatory statement in the next tax return(s) to the extent necessary to take credit in the amount of the allowance. Prior to consideration and action on his claim the manufacturer may not anticipate allowance of his claim by taking credit in his tax return. The duplicate of a claim for refund, with the copy of any verified supporting schedules, shall be retained by the manufacturer.
