
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 40 - MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, AND PROCESSED TOBACCO
##### Subpart K - Manufacture of Cigarette Papers and Tubes
###### Taxes
####### § 40.357 Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## General.

(a)(1) Each taxpayer who was liable, during a calendar year, for a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in taxes on tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and part 41 of this chapter, shall use a commercial bank in making payment by electronic fund transfer (EFT) of taxes on tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes during the succeeding calendar year. Payment of taxes on tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes in any other form of remittance, as authorized in § 40.355, is not authorized for a taxpayer who is required, by this section, to make remittances by EFT. For purposes of this section, the dollar amount of tax liability is defined as the gross tax liability on all taxable withdrawals and importations (including tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes brought into the United States from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands) during the calendar year, without regard to any drawbacks, credits, or refunds, for all premises from which such activities are conducted by the taxpayer. Overpayments are not taken into account in summarizing the gross tax liability.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a taxpayer includes a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563, and implementing regulations in 26 CFR §§ 1.563-1 through 1.1563-4. Also, the rules for a "controlled group of corporations" apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50% control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of determining who is required to make remittances by EFT.

(3) A taxpayer who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT shall make a separate EFT remittance and file a separate return, TTB Form 5000.24, for each factory from which cigarette papers or cigarette tubes are withdrawn upon determination of tax.
