
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 40 - MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, AND PROCESSED TOBACCO
##### Subpart K - Manufacture of Cigarette Papers and Tubes
###### Claims By Manufacturers
####### ยง 40.472 Allowance.

Relief from the payment of tax on cigarette papers and tubes may be extended to a manufacturer by allowance of the tax where the cigarette papers and tubes, after removal from the factory upon determination of tax and prior to the payment of such tax, are lost (otherwise than by theft) or destroyed by fire, casualty, or act of God, while in the possession or ownership of the manufacturer who removed such articles, or are withdrawn by the manufacturer from the market. Any claim for allowance under this section shall be filed on TTB F 5620.8 with the appropriate TTB officer, shall be executed under penalties and perjury and shall show the date the cigarette papers and tubes were removed from the factory. A claim relating to articles lost or destroyed shall be supported as prescribed in ยง 40.475. In the case of a claim relating to cigarette papers or tubes withdrawn from the market the schedule prescribed in ยง 40.476 shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer. The manufacturer may not anticipate allowance of a claim by making the adjusting entry in a tax return pending consideration and action on the claim. Cigarette papers and tubes to which such a claim relates must be shown as removed on determination of tax in the return covering the period during which such articles were so removed. Upon action on the claim by the appropriate TTB officer a copy of TTB F 5620.8 will be returned to the manufacturer as notice of such action. This copy of TTB F 5620.8, with the copy of any verified supporting schedules, shall be retained by the manufacturer. When such notification of allowance of the claim or any part thereof is received prior to the time the return covering the tax on the cigarette papers or tubes to which the claim relates is to be filed, the manufacturer may make an adjusting entry and explanatory statement in that tax return. Where the notice of allowance is received after the filing of the return and taxpayment of the cigarette papers or tubes to which the claim relates, the manufacturer may make an adjusting entry and explanatory statement in the next tax return(s) to the extent necessary to take credit in the amount of the allowance.
