
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 40 - MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, AND PROCESSED TOBACCO
##### Subpart K - Manufacture of Cigarette Papers and Tubes
###### Claims By Manufacturers
####### § 40.473 Credit or refund.

The taxes paid on cigarette papers and tubes may be credited or refunded (without interest) to a manufacturer on proof satisfactory to the appropriate TTB officer that the claimant manufacturer paid the tax on cigarette papers and tubes lost (otherwise than by theft) or destroyed, by fire, casualty, or act of God, while in the possession or ownership of such manufacturer, or withdrawn by the manufacturer from the market. Any claim for credit or refund under this section shall be prepared on TTB F 5620.8, in duplicate. Claims shall include a statement that the tax imposed on cigarette papers and tubes by 26 U.S.C. 7652 or Chapter 52, was paid in respect to the cigarette papers or tubes covered by the claim, and that the articles were lost, destroyed, or withdrawn from the market within 6 months preceding the date the claim is filed. A claim for credit or refund relating to articles lost or destroyed shall be supported as prescribed in § 40.475, and a claim relating to articles withdrawn from the market shall be accompanied by a schedule prepared and verified as prescribed in §§ 40.476, and 40.477. The original and one copy of TTB F 5620.8, shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer. Upon action by the appropriate TTB officer on a claim for credit, a copy of TTB F 5620.8 will be returned to the manufacturer as notification of allowance or disallowance of the claim or any part thereof. This copy, with the copy of any verified supporting schedules, shall be retained by the manufacturer. When the manufacturer is notified of allowance of the claim for credit or any part thereof, the manufacturer shall make an adjusting entry and explanatory statement in the next tax return(s) to the extent necessary to take credit in the amount of the allowance. The manufacturer may not anticipate allowance of a claim by taking credit on a tax return prior to consideration and action on such claim. The duplicate of a claim for refund or credit, with a copy of any verified supporting schedules, shall be retained by the manufacturer.
