
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 41 - IMPORTATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, AND PROCESSED TOBACCO
##### Subpart G - Puerto Rican Tobacco Products and Cigarette Papers and Tubes, Brought Into the United States
###### Deferred Payment of Tax in Puerto Rico on Tobacco Products
####### ยง 41.115a Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
######## General.

(a)(1) Each taxpayer who was liable, during a calendar year, for a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in taxes on tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and part 40 of this chapter, shall use a commercial bank in making payment by electronic fund transfer (EFT) of taxes on tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes during the succeeding calendar year. Payment of taxes on tobacco products, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes by cash, check, or money order, as described in ยง 41.115, is not authorized for a taxpayer who is required, by this section, to make remittances by EFT. For purposes of this section, the dollar amount of tax liability is defined as the gross tax liability of all taxes which are paid in accordance with this subpart, taxable withdrawals from premises in the United States, and importations during the calendar year, without regard to any drawbacks, credits, or refunds, for all premises from which such activities are conducted by the taxpayer. Overpayments are not taken into account in summarizing the gross tax liability.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a taxpayer includes a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563, and implementing regulations in 26 CFR 1.1563-1 through 1.1563-4, except that the words "at least 80 percent" shall be replaced by the words "more than 50 percent" in each place it appears in subsection (a) of 26 U.S.C. 1563, as well as in the implementing regulations. Also, the rules for a "controlled group of corporations" apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50% control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of determining who is required to make remittances by EFT.

(3) A taxpayer who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT, shall make a separate EFT remittance and file a separate tax return for each factory which tobacco products, or cigarette papers, or cigarette tubes are withdrawn upon determination of tax.
