
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 44 - EXPORTATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, WITHOUT PAYMENT OF TAX, OR WITH DRAWBACK OF TAX
##### Subpart B - Definitions
###### ยง 44.11 Meaning of terms.
####### Manufacturer of cigarette papers and tubes.

Any person who manufactures cigarette paper, or makes up cigarette paper into tubes, except for his own personal use or consumption.

Manufacturer of tobacco products. (1) Any person who manufactures cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, or roll-your-own tobacco, other than:

(i) A person who produces tobacco products solely for that person's own consumption or use; or

(ii) A proprietor of a customs bonded manufacturing warehouse with respect to the operation of such warehouse.

(2) The term "Manufacturer of tobacco products" includes any person who for commercial purposes makes available for consumer use (including such consumer's personal consumption or use under paragraph (1)(i) of this definition) a machine capable of making cigarettes, cigars, or other tobacco products. A person making such a machine available for consumer use shall be deemed the person making the removal with respect to any tobacco products manufactured by such machine. A person who sells a machine directly to a consumer at retail for a consumer's personal home use is not making a machine available for commercial purposes if such machine is not used at a retail premises and is designed to produce tobacco products only in personal use quantities.
