
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 44 - EXPORTATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES, WITHOUT PAYMENT OF TAX, OR WITH DRAWBACK OF TAX
##### Subpart C - General
###### Variations From Requirements
####### ยง 44.72 Alternate methods or procedures.

A manufacturer of tobacco products, an export warehouse proprietor, or a customs warehouse proprietor, on specific approval by the appropriate TTB officer as provided in this section, may use an alternate method or procedure in lieu of a method or procedure specifically prescribed in this part. The appropriate TTB officer may approve an alternate method or procedure, subject to stated conditions, when he finds that-

(a) Good cause has been shown for the use of the alternate method or procedure.

(b) The alternate method or procedure is within the purpose of, and consistent with the effect intended by, the specifically prescribed method or procedure, and affords equivalent security to the revenue, and

(c) The alternate method or procedure will not be contrary to any provision of law, and will not result in an increase in cost to the Government or hinder the effective administration of this part. No alternate method or procedure relating to the giving of any bond or to the assessment, payment, or collection of tax, shall be authorized under this section. Where a manufacturer or proprietor desires to employ an alternate method or procedure, he shall submit a written application to the appropriate TTB officer. The application shall specifically describe the proposed alternate method or procedure, and shall set forth the reasons therefor. Alternate methods or procedures shall not be employed until the application has been approved by the appropriate TTB officer. The manufacturer or proprietor shall, during the period of authorization of an alternate method or procedure, comply with the terms of the approved application. Authorization for any alternate method or procedure may be withdrawn whenever in the judgment of the appropriate TTB officer the revenue is jeopardized or the effective administration of this part is hindered. The manufacturer or proprietor shall retain, as part of his records, any authorization of the appropriate TTB officer under this section.
