
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Tobacco
#### PART 46 - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS RELATING TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND CIGARETTE PAPERS AND TUBES
##### Subpart D - Rules for Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Payment of Special Tax
####### ยง 46.101 Special tax returns.
######## Preparation of TTB Form 5630.5t.

(a)Every manufacturer of tobacco products, manufacturer of cigarette papers and tubes, and export warehouse proprietor is required to pay special (occupational) tax and file a return on TTB Form 5630.5t, "Special Tax Registration and Return-Tobacco." TTB Form 5630.5t must be completed in accordance with the instructions on the form, and all of the information called for on the form must be provided, including the following:

(1) Name of the taxpayer.

(2) Trade name(s) (if any) of the business(es) subject to special (occupational) tax.

(3) Employer identification number (see ยง 46.102).

(4) Exact location of the place of business, by name and number of building or street, or if these do not exist, by some specific description in addition to the post office address. In the case of one return for two or more locations, the address to be shown must be the taxpayer's principal place of business (or principal office, in the case of a corporate taxpayer).

(5) Class(es) of special tax to which the taxpayer is subject.

(6) Ownership and control information. This consists of the name, position, and residence address of every owner of the business and of every person having power to control its management and policies with respect to the activity subject to special tax. "Owner of the business" includes every partner, if the taxpayer is a partnership, and every person owning 10 percent or more of its stock, if the taxpayer is a corporation. However, the ownership and control information required by this paragraph need not be stated if the same information has been previously provided to TTB in connection with a permit application and that previously provided information is still current.
