
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart C - Administrative and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 53.23 Alternate methods or procedures.

(a) A taxpayer, on specific approval by the appropriate TTB officer as provided in this section, may use an alternate method or procedure in lieu of a method or procedure specifically prescribed in this part. The appropriate TTB officer may approve an alternate method or procedure, subject to stated conditions, when-

(1) Good cause has been shown for the use of the alternate method or procedure;

(2) The alternate method or procedure is within the purpose of, and consistent with the effect intended by, the specifically prescribed method or procedure, and affords equivalent security to the revenue; and

(3) The alternate method or procedure will not be contrary to any provision of law and will not result in an increase in cost to the Government or hinder the effective administration of this part. No alternate method or procedure relating to the assessment, payment, or collection of tax shall be authorized under this paragraph.

(b) Where the taxpayer desires to employ an alternate method or procedure, a written application to do so must be submitted. The application must specifically describe the proposed alternate method or procedure and must set forth the reasons therefor. Alternate methods or procedures must not be employed until the appropriate TTB officer has approved the application. The taxpayer must, during the period of authorization of an alternate method or procedure, comply with the terms of the approved application. Authorization for any alternate method or procedure may be withdrawn whenever, in the judgment of the appropriate TTB officer, the revenue is jeopardized or the effective administration of this part is hindered by the continuation of such authorization.
