
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart J - Special Provisions Applicable to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 53.95 Constructive sale price; basic rules.
####### Sales at retail.

(b)Section 4216(b)(1)(A) of the Code relates to the determination of a constructive sale price for sales of taxable articles sold at arm's-length and at retail. In the case of such sales, the constructive sale price is the highest price for which such articles are sold to wholesale distributors, in the ordinary course of trade, by manufacturers or producers thereof, as determined by the Secretary. If the constructive sale price is less than the actual sale price, the constructive sale price shall be used as the tax base. If the constructive sale price is not less than the actual sale price, the actual sale price shall be considered as not less than fair market, and shall be used as the tax base. In determining the highest price for which articles are sold by manufacturers to wholesale distributors, there must be taken into consideration the normal industry practices with respect to inclusions and exclusions under section 4216(a) of the Code. However, once a constructive sale price has been determined by the Secretary, no further adjustment of such price shall be made. The provisions of section 4216(b)(1)(A) of the Code and this paragraph shall not apply in those instances where the provisions of section 4216(b)(2) of the Code and ยง 53.96 apply.
