
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart J - Special Provisions Applicable to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 53.100 Exclusion of local advertising charges from sale price.
####### In general.

(a)Section 4216(e) of the Code deals with the treatment to be accorded charges made by a manufacturer for, and reimbursements by a manufacturer or expenditures in connection with the advertising of certain articles subject to excise tax under chapter 32 of the Code. Section 4216(e) of the Code provides an exclusion (which is in addition to the exclusions provided by section 4216(a) of the Code and ยง 53.92) in respect of charges for local advertising, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of determining the price for which an article is sold. See paragraph (c) of this section. The exclusion provided by section 4216(e) of the Code and paragraph (c) of this section has application only if the advertising is broadcast over a radio or television station, appears in a newspaper or magazine, or is displayed by means of an outdoor advertising sign or poster. Section 4216(e) of the Code also provides an overall limitation in respect of the sum of the amount of the exclusions from price as charges for local advertising and the amount of the readjustments authorized under section 6416(b)(1) of the Code (relating to credits or refunds for price readjustments) in respect of reimbursements by a manufacturer of expenditures for local advertising. See ยง 53.101. For provisions prohibiting exclusion from price or readjustment of price in respect of charges for, and reimbursements of expenditures for, advertising other than local advertising, see ยง 53.102.
