
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart J - Special Provisions Applicable to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 53.100 Exclusion of local advertising charges from sale price.
####### Identification of article and sales location.

(3)To meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the advertising must identify the article for which the price is determinable under section 4216 of the Code and give the location or locations at which the article may be purchased at retail. All products taxable at the same rate under the same section of chapter 32 of the Code shall be considered to be an "article" for purposes of the preceding sentence. No specific method or means of identification is prescribed. The identification of the article may be made through the use of the name of the manufacturer or the use of an established trade-mark, such as a seal, picture, letter or letters, etc., or a combination thereof. The advertising must identify the particular retail establishment or establishments at which the article may be purchased at retail but need not specify the location of any such establishment in terms of the number by which the premises are designated or the name of the street on which the retail premises are situated. However, the location of the retail premises must be described sufficiently, as, for example, by reference to a particular named shopping area or shopping center, to enable customers to find the retail establishment.
