
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart K - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 53.132 Tax-free sale of articles to be used for, or resold for, further manufacture.
####### Proof of resale,Certificate of purchaser.

(2)-(i)The proof of resale to be received by the manufacturer, as required under section 4221(b)(1) of the Code, may consist of either a copy of the invoice of the manufacturer's vendee directed to his purchaser which discloses the certificate of registry number held by each party or a statement described in this paragraph. In the case of an invoice of manufacturer's vendee, it must appear from such invoice (or by statement attached thereto) that the article was in fact resold for use in further manufacture. In lieu of such an invoice, proof of resale may consist of a statement, executed and signed by the manufacturer's vendee which includes the following:

(A) Date statement was executed.

(B) Name and address of manufacturer's vendee (if other than the person executing statement).

(C) Certificate of registry number held by vendee.

(D) Specify article(s) purchased tax-free, by whom purchased, certificate of registry number of second purchaser, date of purchase(s), whether articles were purchased as material in the manufacture or production of, or as a component part or parts of, an article or articles taxable under Chapter 32 of the Code.

(E) Statement that person executing statement or manufacturer's vendee possesses proof of tax-free resale of the article(s) in the form of purchase orders and sales invoices and identifying the person who will maintain custody of such proof for 3 years from the date of the statement and will make such proof available for inspection by TTB during such 3 year period.

(F) Statement that a previous statement has not been executed in respect of such certificate of resale and that the person signing the statement is aware that fraudulent use of the statement may subject the person signing the statement and all parties making fraudulent use of the statement to all applicable criminal penalties under the Code.

(G) Name, signature, and title of individual executing statement.
