
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart K - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 53.133 Tax-free sale of articles for export, or for resale by the purchaser to a second purchaser for export.
####### Proof of exportation.

(d)(1) Exportation may be evidenced by:

(i) A copy of the export bill of lading issued by the delivering carrier,

(ii) A certificate by the agent or representative of the export carrier showing actual exportation of the article,

(iii) A certificate of landing signed by a customs officer of the foreign country to which the article is exported,

(iv) Where the foreign country has no customs administration, a statement of the foreign consignee showing receipt of the article, or

(v) Where a department or agency of the United States Government is unable to furnish any one of the foregoing four types of proof of exportation, a statement or certification on the department or agency stationery, executed by an authorized officer, that the listed or identified articles have, in fact, been exported.

(2) In any case where the manufacturer is not the exporter, the manufacturer must have in its possession a statement from the vendee to whom the manufacturer sold the article stating the following:

(i) Date statement was executed.

(ii) Name and address of manufacturer's vendee (if other than the person executing statement).

(iii) Certificate of registry number held by vendee.

(iv) Specify article(s) purchased tax-free, by whom purchased, and date of purchase.

(v) Statement that article(s) was either exported in due course by the vendee or was sold to another person who in due course exported the article(s).

(vi) Name and address of vendee who will maintain possession of the proof of exportation documents, description of the documents, and statement that vendee will maintain documents for 3 years and make them available to TTB for inspection.

(vii) Statement that a previous statement has not been executed in respect of the articles covered by this statement and that fraudulent use of this statement may subject person executing statement and all parties making fraudulent use of statement to all applicable criminal penalties under the Code.

(viii) Name, signature, title, and address of individual executing certificate.

(3) The statement executed and signed by the manufacturer's vendee, as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, may be executed with respect to any one or more articles purchased tax free from a manufacturer and exported within the 6-month period prescribed in section 4221(b)(2) of the Code and paragraph (c) of this section. Such statement shall be kept for inspection by the appropriate TTB officer as provided in section 6001 of the Code.
