
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart K - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 53.135 Tax-free sale of articles to State and local governments for their exclusive use.
####### In general.

(a)An article subject to tax under Chapter 32 of the Code may be sold tax free by the manufacturer, pursuant to section 4221(a)(4) of the code and this section, to a State or local government for the exclusive use of such State or local government. See paragraph (b) of this section for the meaning of the term "State or local government". An article may be sold tax free by the manufacturer under this paragraph only in those cases where the sale is made directly to a State or local government for its exclusive use. Accordingly, no sale may be made tax free to a dealer for resale to a State or local government for its exclusive use, even though it is known at the time of sale by the manufacturer that the article will be so resold. A sale of an article to a State or local government for resale is not considered to be a sale for the "exclusive use" of the State or local government, within the meaning of section 4221(a)(4) of the Code, and, therefore, such sales may not be made tax free. Such sales are not exempt regardless of whether the resales are made to government employees, or the fact that the article is an item of equipment the employee is required to possess in carrying out his duties. For example, pistols or revolvers may not be sold tax free to a State or local government for resale to its police officers. See section 6416(b)(2)(C) of the Code, and paragraph (d) of ยง 53.178, for the circumstances under which credit or refund of tax is available where tax-paid articles are sold for the exclusive use of a State or local government.
