
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart K - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 53.135 Tax-free sale of articles to State and local governments for their exclusive use.
####### Evidence required in support of tax-free sales to State or local governments.

(c)(1) In the case of a State or local government which is registered (see ยง 53.141 for provisions under which a State or local government may register if it so desires), the provisions of paragraph (c) of ยง 53.131 have application as to the evidence required in support of tax-free sales. If a State or local government is not registered, the evidence required in support of a tax-free sale to the State or local government shall, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, consist of a certificate, executed and signed by an officer or employee authorized by the State or local government to execute and sign the certificate. If it is impracticable to furnish a separate certificate for each order or contract because of frequency of purchases, a certificate covering all orders between given dates (such period not to exceed 12 calendar quarters) will be acceptable. The certificates and proper records of invoices, orders, etc., relative to tax-free sales must be retained by the manufacturer as provided in ยง 53.24(d). A certificate of exemption to support tax-free sales under this section must contain the following:

(i) Title of official executing certificate, branch of government, date executed, and statement that official is authorized to execute certificate.

(ii) List articles covered by the certificate or beginning and ending dates during which orders will be placed by the purchaser (period not to exceed 12 calendar quarters).

(iii) Name of manufacturer from which articles purchased.

(iv) Governmental unit purchasing articles.

(v) Statement that is understood that articles purchased under this certificate of exemption are limited to use exclusively by the purchasing governmental entity.

(vi) Statement that is understood that any fraudulent use of this certificate may subject the person executing the certificate and all parties making fraudulent use of the certificate to all applicable criminal penalties under the Code.

(vii) Name, address, and signature of person executing the certificate.

(2) A purchase order, provided that all of the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section is included therein, is acceptable in lieu of a separate exemption certificate.
