
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart K - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 53.141 Exceptions to the requirement for registration.
####### State and local governments.

(a)(1) A State or local government purchasing articles direct from the manufacturer for its exclusive use may, but is not required to, register as provided in ยง 53.140. To establish the right to sell articles tax free to a State or local government that is not registered, the manufacturer must obtain from an authorized official of the State or local government and retain in the manufacturer's possession either a properly executed exemption certificate, or a purchase order that contains the same information required to be furnished in an exemption certificate. See ยง 53.135(c) for the information necessary to substantiate a tax-free sale under such circumstances.

(2) Each State requesting registration will be assigned one Certificate of Registry. The registration number shown on this certificate may be used by all agencies, boards, and commissions of the State that are authorized by the State to make purchases for the exclusive use of the State. However, the registration number assigned to a State may not be used by any political subdivision of that State, such as a county or municipality. Each political subdivision of a State desiring to obtain a Certificate of Registry must obtain a separate registration number.
