
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart L - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Manufacturers Taxes
###### § 53.158 Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.
####### Requirements.

(b)(1) On or before the 10th day of the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which the taxpayer will begin remitting taxes by EFT, each taxpayer who elects to make remittances by EFT of firearms and ammunition excise taxes incurred under this part shall give written notice to the appropriate TTB officer, indicating that remittances will be paid by EFT. Taxpayers who gave written notification in a previous calendar quarter electing to make remittances of tax by EFT are not required to give additional written notifications to continue remitting tax by EFT for succeeding calendar quarters.

(2) For each deposit made or return filed in accordance with this subpart, the taxpayer shall direct the taxpayer's financial institution to make an EFT in the amount of the taxpayment to the Treasury Account as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. The request will be made to the financial institution early enough for the transfer of funds to be made to the Treasury Account no later than the close of business on the last day for making the deposit or filing the return as prescribed in §§ 53.157 or 53.159, and 53.153. The request will take into account any time limit established by the financial institution.

(3) Taxpayers who elect to discontinue making remittances by EFT of firearms and ammunition excise taxes may make such election at any time following four consecutive calendar quarters in which tax is remitted by EFT. Taxpayers electing to discontinue making remittances by EFT shall remit the tax with the next deposit or return as prescribed in §§ 53.157 or 53.159, and 53.151 for remittances not made by EFT and notify the appropriate TTB officer by attaching a written notification to the tax deposit form or return stating that remittance of firearms and ammunition excise taxes will no longer be made by EFT.
