
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart L - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 53.159 Deposit requirement for deposits made for calendar quarters beginning on or after July 1, 1995.
####### Forms and procedures.

(g)Each remittance of amounts required to be deposited shall be accompanied by Form 5300.27, Federal Firearms and Ammunition Excise Tax Deposit form, or Form 5300.26, Federal Firearms and Ammunition Excise Tax Return, which shall be prepared in accordance with the applicable instructions. Taxpayers electing to remit deposits by EFT pursuant to ยง 53.158 shall prepare and submit Form 5300.26 or Form 5300.27 in accordance with the instructions contained in Procedure 92-1, Publication 5000.11. The timeliness of the deposit will be determined by the date it is received by the lockbox financial institution, or the TTB officer designated on the form accompanying the deposit, or the Treasury Account, when made by EFT. In order for deposits of less than $20,000 made by U.S. Mail to be considered received timely, the date of mailing must be on or before the second day preceding the due date of the deposit as evidenced by the official postmark of the U.S. Postal Service stamped on the cover in which the deposit was mailed. When the postmark on the cover is illegible, the burden of proving when the postmark was made will be on the taxpayer. When the taxpayer sends the deposit by registered mail or by certified mail, the date of registry or the date of the postmark on the sender's receipt of certified mail, as the case may be, shall be treated as the date of delivery of the deposit. Any deposit of $20,000 or more must be received by the last day prescribed for making such deposit, regardless of when mailed. Amounts deposited pursuant to this paragraph shall be considered to be paid on the last day prescribed for filing the return in respect of the tax (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing the returns), or at the time deposited, whichever is later.
