
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Firearms
#### PART 53 - MANUFACTURERS EXCISE TAXES - FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart L - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 53.179 Supporting evidence required in case of manufacturers tax involving exportations, uses, sales, or resales.
####### Certificate of ultimate vendor.

(iii)Any certificate executed and signed by an ultimate vendor as evidence to be retained by the person who paid the tax as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may be executed with respect to any one or more overpayments by the person which arose under section 6416(b)(2) and ยง 53.178 by reason of exportations, uses, sales or resales, occurring within any period of not more than 12 consecutive calendar quarters, the beginning and ending dates of which are specified in the certificate. A certificate supporting a claim for credit or refund under this section shall contain the following:

(A) Name of ultimate vendor if other than person executing the certificate.

(B) Statement that article(s) was purchased by the ultimate vendor tax-paid and was thereafter exported, used, sold, or resold.

(C) Description of proof which supports exportation or certificate as to use executed by ultimate purchaser.

(D) Statement that ultimate vendor retains such proof for 3 years from the date of the statement and will, upon request, supply such proof at any time within such 3 year period to the taxpayer to establish that credit or refund is due in respect of the article.

(E) Statement that to the best knowledge and belief of the person executing the certificate, no statement in respect of the proof of exportation or certificate has previously been executed and that the person executing the certificate understands that any fraudulent use of the certificate may subject the person executing the certificate or any other party to all applicable criminal penalties under the Code.

(F) Name, title, address and signature of person executing certificate and date signed.

(G) Description of all articles covered by the certificate, with the corresponding vendor's invoice number, date of resale of article, quantity, whether articles were exported or used and the use made of article or to be made of article.
