
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart A - Scope
###### ยง 70.1 General.

(a) The regulations in Subparts C, D, and E of this part set forth the procedural and administrative rules of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau for:

(1) The issuance and enforcement of summonses, examination of books of account and witnesses, administration of oaths, entry of premises for examination of taxable objects, granting of rewards for information, canvass for taxable objects and persons, and authority of TTB officers.

(2) The use of commercial banks for payment of excise taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. Subtitles E and F.

(3) The preparing or executing of returns; deposits; payment on notice and demand; assessment; abatements, credits and refunds; limitations on assessment; limitations on credit or refund; periods of limitation in judicial proceedings; interest; additions to tax, additional amounts, and assessable penalties; enforced collection activities; authority for establishment, alteration, and distribution of stamps, marks, or labels; jeopardy assessment of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms taxes, registration of dealers in alcohol fit for beverage use, and registration of persons paying a special tax.

(4) Distilled spirits, wines, beer, tobacco products, cigarette papers and tubes, firearms, ammunition, and explosives.

(b) The regulations in Subpart F of this part relate to the limitations imposed by 26 U.S.C. 6423, on the refund or credit of tax paid or collected in respect to any article of a kind subject to a tax imposed by Part I, Subchapter A of Chapter 51, I.R.C., or by any corresponding provision of prior internal revenue laws.

(c) The regulations in Subpart G of this part implement 26 U.S.C. 5064, which permits payments to be made by the United States for amounts equal to the internal revenue taxes paid or determined and customs duties paid on distilled spirits, wines, and beer, previously withdrawn, that were lost, made unmarketable, or condemned by a duly authorized official as a result of disaster, vandalism, or malicious mischief. This subpart applies to disasters or other specified causes of loss, occurring on or after February 1, 1979. This subpart does not apply to distilled spirits, wines, and beer manufactured in Puerto Rico and brought into the United States.
