
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart C - Discovery of Liability and Enforcement of Laws
###### General Powers and Duties
####### ยง 70.42 Returns prepared or executed by appropriate TTB officers.
######## Cross references.

(c)(1) For provisions that the return executed by an appropriate TTB officer will not start the running of the period of limitations on assessment and collection, see 26 U.S.C. 6501(b)(3) and ยง 70.222(b) of this part.

(2) For additions to the tax and additional amounts for failure to file returns, see section 6651 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(3) For additions to the tax for failure to pay tax, see sections 5684, 5761, and 6653 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(4) For failure to make deposit of taxes or overstatement of deposit claims, see section 6656 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(5) For an additional penalty for tendering a bad check or money order, see section 6657 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(6) For certain failures to pay tax with respect to cases pending under Title 11 of the United States Code, see section 6658 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(7) For failure to supply identifying numbers, see section 6676 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(8) For penalties for aiding and abetting understatement of tax liability, see section 6701 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(9) For criminal penalties for willful failure to make returns, see sections 7201, 7202, and 7203 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(10) For criminal penalties for willfully making false or fraudulent returns, see sections 7206 and 7207 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(11) For authority to examine books and witnesses, see section 7602 of the Internal Revenue Code and ยง 70.22.
