
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Receipt of Payment
####### ยง 70.61 Payment by check or money order.
######## Authority to Receive,General.

(a)-(1)(i) The appropriate TTB officer may accept checks drawn on any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of the United States or under the laws of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, or money orders in payment for internal revenue taxes, provided such checks or money orders are collectible in U.S. currency at par, and subject to the further provisions contained in this section. The appropriate TTB officer may accept such checks or money orders in payment for internal revenue stamps (authorized under Subtitle E of the Internal Revenue Code or any provision of Subtitle F which relates to Subtitle E) to the extent and under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. A check or money order in payment for internal revenue taxes or internal revenue stamps should be made payable to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. A check or money order is payable at par only if the full amount thereof is payable without any deduction for exchange or other charges. As used in this section, the term "money order" means:

(A) U.S. postal, bank, express, or telegraph money order; and

(B) Money order issued by a domestic building and loan association (as defined in section 7701(a)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code) or by a similar association incorporated under the laws of a possession of the United States;

(C) A money order issued by such other organization as the appropriate TTB officer may designate; and

(D) A money order described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in cases therein described. However, the appropriate TTB officers may refuse to accept any personal check whenever there is good reason to believe that such check will not be honored upon presentment.

(ii) An American citizen residing in a country with which the United States maintains direct exchange of money orders on a domestic basis may pay his/her tax by postal money order of such country. For a list of such countries, see section 171.27 of the Postal Manual of the United States.

(iii) If one check or money order is remitted to cover two or more persons' taxes, the remittance should be accompanied by a letter of transmittal clearly identifying-

(A) Each person whose tax is to be paid by the remittance;

(B) The amount of the payment on account of each such person; and

(C) The kind of tax paid.
