
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Assessment
####### ยง 70.75 Jeopardy assessment of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms taxes.

(a) If the appropriate TTB officer believes that the collection of any tax imposed under provisions of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau will be jeopardized by delay, the appropriate TTB officer must, whether or not the time otherwise prescribed by law for filing the return or paying such tax has expired, immediately assess such tax, together with all interest, additional amounts and additions to the tax provided by law. An appropriate TTB officer will make an assessment under this section if collection is determined to be in jeopardy because at least one of the following conditions exists.

(1) The taxpayer is or appears to be designing quickly to depart from the United States or to conceal himself or herself.

(2) The taxpayer is or appears to be designing quickly to place the taxpayer's property beyond the reach of the Government either by removing it from the United States, by concealing it, or by dissipating it, or by transferring it to other persons.

(3) The taxpayer's financial solvency is or appears to be threatened.

(b) The tax, interest, additional amounts, and additions to the tax will, upon assessment, become immediately due and payable, and the appropriate TTB officer shall, without delay, issue a notice and demand for payment thereof in full.

(c) See 26 U.S.C. 7429 with respect to requesting the appropriate TTB officer to review the making of the jeopardy assessment.

(d) For provisions relating to stay of collection of jeopardy assessments, see ยง 70.76 of this part.
