
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Assessment
####### ยง 70.76 Stay of collection of jeopardy assessment; bond to stay collection.

(a) The collection of taxes assessed under 26 U.S.C. 6862 (referred to as a "jeopardy assessment" for purposes of this section) of any tax may be stayed by filing with the appropriate TTB officer a bond on the form to be furnished by TTB upon request.

(b) The bond may be filed:

(1) At any time before the time collection by levy is authorized under 26 U.S.C. 6331(a), or

(2) After collection by levy is authorized and before levy is made on any property or rights to property, or

(3) In the discretion of the appropriate TTB officer, after any such levy has been made and before the expiration of the period of limitations on collection.

(c) The bond must be in an amount equal to the portion (including interest thereon to the date of payment as calculated by the appropriate TTB officer) of the jeopardy assessment collection of which is sought to be stayed. See 26 U.S.C. 7101 and ยง 70.281, relating to the form of bond and the sureties thereon. The bond shall be conditioned upon the payment of the amount (together with interest thereon), for which the collection is stayed, at the time at which, but for the making of the jeopardy assessment, such amount would be due.

(d) Upon the filing of a bond in accordance with this section, the collection of so much of the assessment as is covered by the bond will be stayed. The taxpayer may at any time waive the stay of collection of the whole or of any part of the amount covered by the bond. If as a result of such waiver any part of the amount covered by the bond is paid, or if any portion of the jeopardy assessment is abated by the appropriate TTB officer, then the bond shall (at the request of the taxpayer) be proportionately reduced.
