
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Lien for Taxes
####### § 70.150 Release of lien or discharge of property.
######## Release of lien.

(a)An appropriate TTB officer is charged with releasing liens or discharging property from liens. The appropriate TTB officer must issue a certificate of release of a lien imposed with respect to any tax imposed by a provision of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau, not later than 30 days after the day on which either:

(1) The appropriate TTB officer finds that the entire liability for the tax has been satisfied or has become unenforceable as a matter of law (and not merely uncollectible or unenforceable as a matter of fact). Tax liabilities frequently are unenforceable in fact for the time being, due to the temporary nonpossession by the taxpayer of discoverable property or property rights. In all cases the liability for the payment of the tax continues until satisfaction of the tax in full or until the expiration of the statutory period for collection, including such extension of the period for collection as may be agreed upon in writing by the taxpayer and the appropriate TTB officer.

(2) The appropriate TTB officer is furnished and accepts a bond that is conditioned upon the payment of the amount assessed (together with all interest in respect thereof and any expenses to which the Government has been put in the matter), within the time agreed upon in the bond, but not later than 6 months before the expiration of the statutory period for collection, including any period for collection agreed upon in writing by the appropriate TTB officer and the taxpayer. For provisions relating to bonds, see 26 U.S.C. 7101 and 7102 and §§ 70.281 and 70.282 of this part.
