
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
####### § 70.161 Levy and distraint.
######## Authority to levy,In general.

(a)-(1)If any person liable to pay any tax neglects or refuses to pay the tax within 10 days after notice and demand, the appropriate TTB officer who initiated the assessment may proceed to collect the tax by levy, provided the taxpayer has been furnished the notice described in § 70.162(a) of this part. The appropriate TTB officer may levy upon any property, or rights to property, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, belonging to the taxpayer. The appropriate TTB officer may also levy upon property with respect to which there is a lien provided by 26 U.S.C. 6321 for the payment of the tax. For exemption of certain property from levy, see 26 U.S.C. 6334 and §§ 70.241 through 70.245 of this part. For exemption of certain property from levy, see 26 U.S.C. 6334 and §§ 70.241 through 70.245 of this part. As used in 26 U.S.C. 6331 and this section, the term "tax" includes any interest, additional amount, addition to tax, or assessable penalty, together with costs and expenses. Property subject to a Federal tax lien which has been sold or otherwise transferred by the taxpayer may be seized while in the hands of the transferee or any subsequent transferee. However, see 26 U.S.C. 6323(i)(2) and § 70.144 of this part concerning the subrogation rights of certain transferees. Levy may be made by serving a Notice of Levy on any person in possession of, or obligated with respect to, property or rights to property subject to levy, including receivables, bank accounts, evidences of debt, securities, and salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation. Except as provided in § 70.162(c) of this part with regard to a levy on salary or wages, a levy extends only to property possessed and obligations which exist at the time of the levy. Obligations exist when the liability of the obligor is fixed and determinable although the right to receive payment thereof may be deferred until a later date. For example, if on the first day of the month a delinquent taxpayer sold personal property subject to an agreement that the buyer remit the purchase price on the last day of the month, a levy made on the buyer on the 10th day of the month would reach the amount due on the sale, although the buyer need not satisfy the levy by paying over the amount to the appropriate TTB officer until the last day of the month. Similarly, a levy only reaches property in the possession of the person levied upon at the time the levy is made. For example, a levy made on a bank with respect to the account of a delinquent taxpayer is satisfied if the bank surrenders the amount of the taxpayer's balance at the time the levy is made, including interest thereon to the date of surrender. The levy has no effect upon any subsequent deposit made in the bank by the taxpayer. Subsequent deposits may be reached only by a subsequent levy on the bank.
