
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
####### ยง 70.161 Levy and distraint.
######## Service of notice of levy by mail.

(c)A notice of levy may be served by mailing the notice to the person upon whom the service of a notice of levy is authorized under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In such a case the date and time the notice is delivered to the person to be served is the date and time the levy is made. If the notice is sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, the date of delivery on the receipt is treated as the date the levy is made. If, after receipt of a notice of levy, an officer or other person authorized to act on behalf of the person served signs and notes the date and time of receipt on the notice of levy, the date and time so noted will be presumed to be, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the date and time of delivery. Any person may upon written notice to the appropriate TTB officer, have all notices of levy by mail sent to one designated ofice. After such a notice is received by the appropriate TTB officer, notices of levy by mail will sent to the designated office until a written notice withdrawing the request or a written notice designating a difference office is received by the appropriate TTB officer.
