
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
####### ยง 70.162 Levy and distraint on salary and wages.
######## Continuing effect of levy on salary or wages.

(c)A levy on salary or wages is continuous from the time of the levy until the liability out of which the levy arose is released under 26 U.S.C. 6343 and ยง 70.167 of this part. For this purpose, the term "salary or wages" includes compensation for services paid in the form of fees, commissions, bonuses, and similar items. The levy attaches to both salary or wages earned but not yet paid at the time of the levy, and salary or wages earned and becoming payable (or paid in the form of an advance) subsequent to the date of the levy, until the levy is released pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. In general, salaries or wages that are the subject of a continuing levy, if not exempt from levy under 26 U.S.C. 6334(a) (8) or (9), become payable to the officer who made the levy as the payor would otherwise be obligated to pay over the money to the taxpayer. For example, if the wage earner is paid on the Wednesday following the close of each workweek, a levy made upon the taxpayer's employer on any Monday would reach both the wages due for the prior workweek and the wages for succeeding workweeks as such wages become payable. In such a case the levy would be satisfied if the employer, on the first Wednesday after the levy and on each Wednesday thereafter, pays over to the officer who made the levy wages which would otherwise be paid to the employee on such Wednesday, until the employer receives a notice of release from levy described in paragraph (d) of this section. See, however, ยง 70.245(d) of this part for rules which permit a delayed payment to the officer who made the levy in certain cases where amounts payable to the taxpayer are exempt from levy under 26 U.S.C. 6334 (a)(9) and (d).
