
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
####### ยง 70.164 Surrender of property subject to levy in the case of life insurance and endowment contracts.
######## Satisfaction of levy.

(c)The levy described in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a life insurance or endowment contract shall be deemed to be satisfied if the insuring organization pays over to the officer who made the levy the amount which the person against whom the tax is assessed could have had advanced by the organization on the 90th day after service of the notice of levy on the organization. However, this amount is increased by the amount of any advance (including contractual interest thereon), generally called a policy loan, made to the person on or after the date the orginzation has actual notice or knowledge, within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 6323(i)(1), of the existence of the tax lien with respect to which the levy is made. The insuring organization may, nevertheless, make an advance (including contractual interest thereon), generally called an automatic premium loan, made automatically to maintain the contract in force under an agreement entered into before the organization has such actual notice or knowledge. In any event, the amount paid to the appropriate TTB officer by the insuring organization is not to exceed the amount of the unpaid liability shown on the notification described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The amount determined in accordance with the provisions of this section, subject to the levy, shall be paid to the appropriate TTB officer by the insuring organization promptly after receipt of the notification described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The satisfaction of a levy with respect to a life insurance or endowment contract will not discharge the contract from the tax lien. However, see 26 U.S.C. 6323(b)(9)(C) and ยง 70.231(i) of this part concerning the liability of an insurance company after satisfaction of a levy with respect to a life insurance or endowment contract. If the person against whom the tax is assessed so directs, the insuring organization, on a date before the 90th day after service of the notice of levy, may satisfy the levy by paying over an amount computed in accordance with the provisions of this subparagraph substituting such date for the 90th day. In the event of termination of the policy by the taxpayer or by the death of the insured on a date before the 90th day after service of the notice of levy, the amount to be paid over to the appropriate TTB officer by the insuring organization in satisfaction of the levy shall be an amount computed in accordance with the provisions of this subparagraph substituting the date of termination of the policy or the date of death for the 90th day.
