
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Judicial Proceedings
####### ยง 70.204 Discharge of liens; nonjudicial sales.
######## In general.

(a)Title 26 U.S.C. 7425(b) contains provisions with respect to the effect on the interest of the United States in property in which the United States has or claims a lien, or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien, of a sale made pursuant to:

(1) An instrument creating a lien on the property sold.

(2) A confession of judgment on the obligation secured by an instrument creating a lien on the property sold, or

(3) A statutory lien on the property sold.

For purposes of this section, such a sale is referred to as a "nonjudicial sale." The term "nonjudicial sale" includes, but is not limited to, the divestment of the taxpayer's interest in property which occurs by operation of law, by public or private sale, by forfeiture, or by termination under provisions contained in a contract for a deed or a conditional sales contract. Under 26 U.S.C. 7425(b)(1), if a notice of lien is filed in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6323(f) or (g), or the title derived from the enforcement of a lien is recorded as provided by local law, more than 30 days before the date of sale and the appropriate TTB officer is not given notice of the sale (in the manner prescribed in ยง 70.205 of this part), the sale shall be made subject to and without disturbing the lien or title of the United States. Under 26 U.S.C. 7425(b)(2)(C), in any case in which notice of the sale is given to the appropriate TTB officer not less than 25 days prior to the date of sale (in the manner prescribed in 26 U.S.C. 7425(c)(1)), the sale shall have the same effect with respect to the discharge or divestment of the lien or title as may be provided by local law with respect to other junior liens or other titles derived from the enforcement of junior liens. A nonjudicial sale pursuant to a lien which is junior to a tax lien does not divest the tax lien, even though notice of the nonjudicial sale is given to the appropriate TTB officer. However, under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 6325(b) and ยง 70.150 of this part, designated officers may discharge the property from a tax lien, including a tax lien which is senior to another lien upon the property.
