
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Judicial Proceedings
####### ยง 70.205 Discharge of liens; special rules.
######## Inadequate notice.

(2)Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph, a notice of sale described in paragraph (a) of this section which does not contain the information described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be considered inadequate by the appropriate TTB officer. If the appropriate TTB officer determines that the notice is inadequate, that officer will give written notification of the items of information which are inadequate to the person who submitted the notice. A notice of sale which does not contain the name and address of the person submitting such notice shall be considered to be inadequate for all purposes without notification of any specific inadequacy. In any case where a notice of sale, does not contain the information required under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section with respect to a Notice of Federal Tax Lien, the appropriate TTB officer may give written notification of such omission without specification of any other inadequacy and such notice of sale shall be considered inadequate for all purposes. In the event the appropriate TTB officer gives notification that the notice of sale is inadequate, a notice complying with the provisions of this section (including the requirement that the notice be given not less than 25 days prior to the sale in the case of a notice described in paragraph (a) of this section) must be given. However, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in such a case the appropriate TTB officer may, in that officer's discretion, consent to the sale of the property free of the lien or title of the United States even though notice of the sale is given less than 25 days prior to the sale. In any case where the person who submitted a timely notice which indicates the person's name and address does not receive, more than 5 days prior to the date of the sale, written notification from the appropriate TTB officer that the notice is inadequate, the notice shall be considered adequate for purposes of this section.
