
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Judicial Proceedings
####### ยง 70.206 Discharge of liens; redemption by United States.
######## Payments made by purchaser or the purchaser's successor in interest to a senior lienor.

(4)(i) The amount to be paid upon a redemption by the United States shall include the amount of a payment made by the purchaser or the purchaser's successor in interest to a holder of a senior lien to the extent a request for the reimbursement thereof (made in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section) is approved as provided under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section. This paragraph applies only to a payment made after the foreclosure sale and before the redemption to a holder of a lien that was, immediately prior to the foreclosure sale, superior to the lien foreclosed. A payment of principal or interest to a senior lienor shall be taken into account. Generally, the portion, if any, of a payment which is to be held in escrow for the payment of an expense, such as hazard insurance or real property taxes, is not considered under this paragraph. However, a payment by the escrow agent of a real property tax or special assessment lien, which was senior to the lien foreclosed, shall be considered to be a payment made by the purchaser or the purchaser's successor in interest for purposes of this paragraph. With respect to real property taxes assessed after the foreclosure sale, see paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, relating to excess expenses incurred by the purchaser.

(ii) Before the expiration of the redemption period applicable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the appropriate TTB officer shall, in any case where a redemption is contemplated, send notice to the purchaser (or the purchaser's successor in interest of record) by certified or registered mail or hand delivery of the right under paragraph (b)(4) of this section to request reimbursement (payable in the event the right to redeem under 26 U.S.C. 7425(d) is exercised) for a payment made to a senior lienor. No later than 15 days after the notice from the appropriate TTB officer is sent, the request for reimbursement shall be mailed or delivered to the office specified in such notice and shall consist of:

(A) A written itemized statement, signed by the claimant, of the amount claimed with respect to a payment made to a senior lienor, together with the supporting evidence requested in the notice from the appropriate TTB officer, and

(B) A waiver or other document that will be effective upon redemption by the United States to discharge the property from, or transfer to the United States, any interest in or lien on the property that may arise under local law with respect to the payment made to a senior lienor.

(iii) A request for reimbursement submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall be considered to be approved for the total amount claimed by the purchaser, and payable in the event the right to redeem is exercised, unless the appropriate TTB officer sends notice to the claimant, by certified or registered mail or hand delivery, of the denial of the amount claimed within 30 days after receipt of the request of 15 days before expiration of the applicable period for redemption, whichever is later. The notification of denial shall state the grounds for denial. If such notice of denial is given, the request for reimbursement for a payment made to a senior lienor shall be treated as having been withdrawn by the purchaser or the purchaser's successor and the Bureau shall tender only the amount otherwise payable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If a request for reimbursement is treated as having been withdrawn under the preceding sentence, payment for amounts described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section may, in the discretion of the appropriate TTB officer, be made after the redemption upon the resolution of the disagreement as to the amount properly payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.
