
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Judicial Proceedings
####### ยง 70.206 Discharge of liens; redemption by United States.
######## Effect of certificate of redemption.

(3)A certificate of redemption executed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the regularity of the redemption. When a certificate of redemption is recorded, it shall transfer to the United States all the rights, title, and interest in and to the redeemed property acquired by the person, from whom the appropriate TTB officer redeemed the property, by virtue of the sale of the property. Therefore, if under local law the purchaser takes title free of liens junior to the lien of the foreclosing lienholder, the United States takes the title free of such junior liens upon redemption of the property. If a certificate of redemption has been erroneously prepared and filed because the redemption was not effective, the appropriate TTB officer shall issue a document revoking such certificate of redemption and such document shall be conclusively binding upon the United States against a purchaser of the property or a holder of a lien upon the property.

(4) Application for release of right of redemption. Upon application of a party with a proper interest in the real property sold in a nonjudicial sale described in 26 U.S.C. 7425(b) and ยง 70.204 of this part, which real property is subject to the right of redemption of the United States described in this section, the appropriate TTB officer may, in that officer's discretion, release the right of redemption with respect to the property. The application for the release must be submitted in writing to an appropriate TTB officer and must contain such information as the appropriate TTB officer may require. If the appropriate TTB officer determines that the right of redemption of the United States is without value, no amount shall be required to be paid with respect to the release of the right of redemption.
