
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Limitations
####### ยง 70.241 Property exempt from levy.
######## Judgments for support of minor children.

(8)If the taxpayer is required under any type of order or decree (including an interlocutory decree or a decree of support pendente lite) of a court of competent jurisdiction, entered prior to the day of levy, to contribute to the support of such taxpayer's minor children, so much of the taxpayer's salary, wages, or other income as is necessary to comply with such order or decree. The taxpayer must establish the amount necessary to comply with the order or decree. The appropriate TTB officer is not required to release a levy until such time as that officer is satisfied that the amount to be released from levy will actually be applied in satisfaction of the support obligation. The appropriate TTB officer may make arrangements with a delinquent taxpayer to establish a specific amount of such taxpayer's salary, wage, or other income for each pay period which shall be exempt from levy. Any request for such an arrangement shall be directed to the appropriate TTB officer. Where the taxpayer has more than one source of income sufficient to satisfy the support obligation imposed by the order or decree, the amount exempt from levy may at the discretion of the appropriate TTB officer be allocated entirely to one salary, wage, or source of other income or be apportioned between the several salaries, wages, or other sources of income.
