
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Collection of Excise and Special (Occupational) Tax
###### Limitations
####### § 70.242 Wages, salary and other income.
######## From wages, salary or other income subject to levy.

(2)If the taxpayer's income upon which the appropriate TTB officer does not levy is less than that amount to which the taxpayer is entitled as an exemption, then an amount determined pursuant to § 70.243 of this part is to be paid to the taxpayer from those wages, salary or other income which are subject to levy. The appropriate TTB officer will designate those wages, salary or other income subject to levy from which such amount will be paid to the taxpayer. The appropriate TTB officer will generally make this designation by delivering to the employer, or other person levied upon, the form upon which the taxpayer is to claim any dependent exemption. The form will acompany the notice of levy. The person receiving the form from the appropriate TTB officer must promptly deliver it to the taxpayer. In the case of some employers having a large number of employees, however, the appropriate TTB officer will send the form upon which an employee is to claim any dependent exemption diretly to the employee. In such a case, the notice of levy will indicate that the form for claiming dependent exemptions has been sent to the taxpayer. If a notice of levy is not accompanied by the form for claiming dependent exemptions and does not indicate that the form was sent directly to the taxpayer, then the person levied upon must make payment to the appropriate TTB officer without regard to amounts prescribed by § 70.243 of this part as exempt from levy. If a notice of levy is accompanied by the form for claiming dependent exemptions or indicates that the form was sent directly to the taxpayer, then the person levied upon is to pay over to the taxpayer, amounts determined to be exempt from levy pursuant to § 70.243 and § 70.245 (b) and (c) of this part (relating to the requirement that the taxpayer submit a claim for any dependent exemption). Amounts not exempt from levy are to be paid to the appropriate TTB officer in accordance with the terms of the levy.
