
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart E - Procedural Rules Relating to Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
###### Provisions Relating to Firearms, Shells and Cartridges, and Explosives
####### ยง 70.441 Applicable laws.

(a) Chapter 53 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 5801-5872), the provisions of which are derived from the National Firearms Act Amendments of 1968 (82 Stat. 1227), imposes a tax on the making and transfer in the United States of machine guns, destructive devices, and certain other types of firearms, and an occupational tax upon every importer and manufacturer of, and dealer in, such firearms. Section 1(b) (2) of the act of August 9, 1939 (52 Stat. 1291; 49 U.S.C. 781-788), makes provision for the seizure and forfeiture of vessels, vehicles, and aircraft which are used to transport, carry, or possess, or to facilitate the same, any firearms with respect to which there has been committed any violation of the National Firearms Act or any regulations issued pursuant thereto.

(b) Title I, State Firearms Control Assistance (18 U.S.C., Chapter 44), of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1213), as amended by Pub. L. 99-308 (100 Stat. 449), Pub. L. 99-360 (100 Stat. 766) and Pub. L. 99-408 (100 Stat. 920), provides for the licensing of manufacturers and importers of firearms and ammunition, collectors of firearms, and dealers in firearms, and establishes controls for firearms and ammunition acquisitions and dispositions.

(c) Title I, State Firearms Control Assistance (18 U.S.C. Chapter 44), of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1213) as amended by Pub. L. 99-308 (100 Stat. 449) and Pub. L. 99-360 (100 Stat. 766), provides that no person may ship or transport any firearms or ammunition in interstate or foreign commerce, or receive any firearms or ammunition which has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce, or possess any firearms or ammunition in or affecting commerce, who (1) has been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year, (2) is a fugitive from justice, (3) is an unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802), (4) has been adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to a mental institution, (5) is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States, (6) has been discharged from the Armed Forces under dishonorable conditions, or (7) having been a citizen of the United States, has renounced citizenship.

(d) Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) and regulations thereunder and 27 CFR part 447 are applicable to the registration and licensing of persons engaged in the business of manufacturing, importing or exporting arms, ammunition, or implements of war. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to control, in furtherance of world peace and the security and foreign policy of the United States, the import of articles enumerated on the U.S. Munitions Import List.

(e) Title XI, Regulation of Explosives (18 U.S.C. chapter 40) of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 922) provides for the licensing of manufacturers, importers, and limited manufacturers of, and dealers in, explosives in interstate or foreign commerce, and for issuance of permits for users who buy or transport explosives in interstate or foreign commerce.

(f) Chapter 32 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 4181), imposes a tax upon the sale by the manufacturer, producer, or importer of pistols, revolvers, firearms (other than pistols and revolvers), and shells and cartridges.
