
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart E - Procedural Rules Relating to Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
###### Provisions Relating to Firearms, Shells and Cartridges, and Explosives
####### § 70.448 Claims.

(a) The procedures applicable to the filing of claims under chapter 53 of the Internal Revenue Code are set forth below:

(1) Claims for refund of the making and transfer taxes, and of occupational taxes, whether paid pursuant to assessment or voluntarily paid, and claims for redemption of "National Firearms Act" stamps, are prepared and filed in accordance with the procedures set forth in 27 CFR part 479.

(2) Claims for abatement of making and transfer taxes, and claims for abatement of occupational taxes and penalties erroneously assessed, are prepared and filed in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 70.413(b).

(3) Claims may be reopened or amended in accordance with the provisions of § 70.414 (k) and (l).

(b) The procedures applicable to the filing of claims relating to the tax imposed by section 4181 of the Internal Revenue Code are set forth below:

(1) Claims for credit or refund of manufacturers taxes, whether paid pursuant to assessment of voluntarily paid, are prepared and filed in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 70.123 and 27 CFR 53.171 through 53.186. For regulations under section 6416 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to conditions to allowance and other procedural requirements, see 27 CFR 53.172 through 53.186.

(2) Claims for abatement of manufacturers taxes are to be prepared and filed in accordance with § 70.125.

(3) Claims may be reopened or amended in accordance with the provisions of § 70.414 (k) and (l).
