
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart F - Application of Section 6423, Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as Amended, to Refund or Credit of Tax on Distilled Spirits, Wines, and Beer
###### Claim Procedure
####### ยง 70.507 Data to be shown in claim.

Claims to which this subpart is applicable, in addition to the requirements of ยง 70.506 must set forth or contain the following:

(a) A statement that the claimant paid the amount claimed as a "tax" as defined in this subpart.

(b) Full identification (by specific reference to the form number, the date of filing, the place of filing, and the amount paid on the basis of the particular form or return) of the tax forms or returns covering the payments for which refund or credit is claimed.

(c) The written consent of the owner to the allowance of the refund or credit to the claimant (where the owner of the article in respect of which the tax was paid furnished the claimant the amount claimed for the purpose of paying the tax).

(d) If the claimant (or owner, as the case may be) has neither sold nor contracted to sell the articles involved in the claim, a statement that the claimant (or owner, as the case may be) agrees not to shift, directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever, the burden of the tax to any other person.

(e) If the claim is for refund of a floor stocks tax, or of an amount resulting from an increase in rate of tax applicable to an article, a statement as to whether the price of the article was increased on or following the effective date of such floor stocks tax or rate increase, and if so, the date of the increase, together with full information as to the amount of such price increase.

(f) Specific evidence (such as relevant records, invoices, or other documents, or affidavits of individuals having personal knowledge of pertinent facts) which will satisfactorily establish the conditions to allowance set forth in ยง 70.504.

(g) The appropriate TTB officer may require the claimant to furnish as a part of the claim such additional information as may be deemed necessary.
