
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 7 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF MALT BEVERAGES
##### Subpart E - Mandatory Label Information
###### ยง 7.65 Alcohol content.
####### How the alcohol content must be expressed.

(b)The following rules apply to both mandatory and optional statements of alcohol content.

(1) A statement of alcohol content must be expressed as a percentage of alcohol by volume. Other truthful, accurate, and specific factual representations of alcohol content, such as alcohol by weight, may be made, as long as they appear together with, and as part of, the statement of alcohol content as a percentage of alcohol by volume.

(2) For malt beverages containing one half of one percent (0.5 percent) or more alcohol by volume, statements of alcohol content must be expressed to the nearest one-tenth of a percentage point, subject to the tolerance permitted by paragraph (c) of this section. For malt beverages containing less than 0.5 percent alcohol by volume, alcohol content may be expressed either to the nearest one-tenth or the nearest one-hundredth of a percentage point, and such statements are not subject to any tolerance. See paragraph (e) of this section for the rules applicable to such statements.

(3)(i) The alcohol content statement must be expressed in one of the following formats:

(A) "Alcohol percent by volume";

(B) "percent alcohol by volume"; or

(C) "Alcohol by volume: percent."

(ii) Any of the words or symbols may be enclosed in parentheses and authorized abbreviations may be used with or without a period. The alcohol content statement does not have to appear with quotation marks.

(4) The statements listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must appear as shown, except that the following abbreviations may be used: Alcohol may be abbreviated as "alc"; percent may be represented by the percent symbol "%"; alcohol and volume may be separated by a slash "/" in lieu of the word "by"; and volume may be abbreviated as "vol".
