
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart H - Rules, Regulations and Forms
###### ยง 70.701 Rules and regulations.
####### Formulation.

(a)(1) Alcohol, tobacco, and firearms rules take various forms. The most important rules are issued as Treasury decisions, prescribed by the Administrator, and approved by the Secretary. Other rules may be issued over the signature of the Administrator or the signature of any appropriate TTB officer. The channeling of rules varies with the circumstances. Treasury decisions are prepared within the appropriate TTB offices. After approval by the Administrator, Treasury decisions are forwarded to the Secretary for further consideration and final approval.

(2) Where required by 5 U.S.C. 553, the Administrator publishes in thegeneral notice of proposed rules unless all persons subject thereto are named and either personally served or otherwise have actual notice thereof in accordance with law. Notice may also be published in thein such other instances as may be desirable. This notice includes (i) a statement of the time, place, and nature of public rulemaking proceedings; (ii) reference to the authority under which the rule is proposed; and (iii) either the terms or substance of the proposed rule or a description of the subjects and issues involved. Interested persons may participate in the rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons may also submit requests for a public hearing. However, the Bureau reserves the right to determine, in the light of all circumstances, whether a public hearing should be held.

(3) If the Bureau determines that the public good will be served thereby, it may hold a public hearing for discussion of the issues raised by the proposed regulations. Such a hearing is announced by a notice in thestating the time and place where the hearing is to be held. The following rules govern the conduct of the public hearing only if incorporated by reference in the notice announcing the hearing:

(i) A person wishing to make oral comments at a public hearing shall submit, within the time prescribed in the notice of hearing, an outline of the topics he wishes to discuss, and the time he wishes to devote to each topic. Ordinarily, a period of 10 minutes is the time allotted to each person for making his oral comments.

(ii) A person making oral comments should be prepared to answer questions not only on the topics listed in his outline but also on matters relating to any written comments which he has submitted.

(iii) At the conclusion of the presentation of comments of persons listed in the agenda, to the extent time permits, other comments will be received.

(iv) Written comments submitted prior to the hearing shall be available at the hearing for inspection. Any request for copies of such written comments is treated as a request for records under 27 CFR 70.802(g).

(v) To the extent resources permit, the public hearings to which this paragraph applies may be transcribed.

(vi) In unusual circumstances or for good cause shown, the application of rules contained in this paragraph may be waived.
