
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart H - Rules, Regulations and Forms
###### ยง 70.701 Rules and regulations.
####### Objectives and standards for publication of TTB Rulings and TTB Procedures in the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Bulletin.

(2)(i)(A) A "TTB Ruling" is an official interpretation by the Bureau that has been published in the Bulletin for the information and guidance of taxpayers, Bureau officers, and others concerned. TTB Rulings represent the conclusions of the Bureau on the application of the law to the entire state of facts involved. In those that are based on positions taken in rulings to industry members or technical advice to Bureau field offices, identifying details and confidential information are deleted to prevent unwarranted invasions of privacy and to comply with statutory requirements concerning disclosure of information obtained from the public.

(B) A "TTB Procedure" is a statement of procedure that affects the rights or duties of taxpayers or other members of the public under law and regulations administered by the Bureau or information that, although not necessarily affecting the rights and duties of the public, should be a matter of public knowledge. TTB Procedures establish methods for performing operations in compliance with the requirements of law and regulations. It is Bureau practice to publish as much of the internal management document or communication as is necessary for an understanding of the procedure. TTB Procedures may also be based on internal management documents which should be a matter of public knowledge even though not necessarily affecting the rights or duties of the public.

(ii) It is the policy of the Bureau to publish in the Bulletin all rulings and other communications to members of the public or to Bureau field offices involving substantive law, procedures affecting taxpayer's rights or duties, or industry regulations, except those involving:

(A) Issues specifically and clearly covered by statute or regulations;

(B) Issues specifically covered by rulings, procedures, opinions, or court decisions previously published in the Bulletin;

(C) Issues not likely to arise again because of unique or specific facts;

(D) Determinations of fact rather than interpretations of law;

(E) Acceptability under the law and regulations of containers, labels, and advertising involving alcoholic beverages;

(F) Tobacco operations, such as the disposition of abandoned, seized, or condemned tobacco products;

(G) Informers and informers' rewards; or

(H) Disclosure of secret formulas, processes, business practices, and other similar information.

(iii)(A) It is the practice of the Bureau to publish as much of the ruling or communication as is necessary for an understanding of the position stated. However, in order to prevent unwarranted invasions of personal privacy and to comply with statutory provisions, such as 18 U.S.C. 1905 and 26 U.S.C 6103 and 7213, dealing with disclosure of information obtained from members of the public, identifying details, including the names and addresses of persons involved, and information of a confidential nature are deleted from the ruling.

(B) TTB Rulings published in the Bulletin do not have the force and effect of Department of the Treasury Regulations (including amendatory Treasury decisions) but are published to provide precedents to be used in the disposition of other cases, and may be cited and relied upon for that purpose. No unpublished ruling or decision may be relied on, used, or cited by any officer or employee of the Bureau as a precedent in the disposition of other cases.

(C) Concerned persons generally may rely upon TTB Rulings published in the Bulletin in determining the Bureau treatment of their own transactions and need not request specific rulings applying the principles of a published TTB Ruling to the facts of their particular cases. However, since each TTB Ruling represents the conclusion of the Bureau as to the application of the law to the entire state of facts involved, taxpayers, Bureau personnel, and others concerned are cautioned against reaching the same conclusion in other cases unless the facts and circumstances are substantially the same. They should consider the effect of subsequent legislation, regulations, court decisions and TTB Rulings.

(D) Comments and suggestions from taxpayers or other concerned persons on TTB Rulings being prepared for publication in the Bulletin may be solicited, if justified by special circumstances. Conferences on TTB Rulings being prepared for publication will not be granted except where the Bureau determines that such action is justified by special circumstances.

(iv)(A) The appropriate TTB officer is responsible for administering the program for the publication of TTB Rulings and TTB Procedures in the Bulletin including the standards for style and format.

(B) In accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, each appropriate TTB officer is responsible for the preparation and appropriate referral for publication of TTB Rulings reflecting interpretations of substantive law made by his office and communicated in writing to members of the public or field offices. In this connection, the Chief Counsel is responsible for the referral to the appropriate TTB officer, for consideration for publication as TTB rulings, of interpretations of substantive law made by his office.

(C) In accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the appropriate TTB officers and the Chief Counsel are responsible for determining whether procedures established by an office under their jurisdiction should be published as TTB Procedures and for the initiation, content, and appropriate referral for publication of such TTB Procedures.
