
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 70 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart I - Disclosure
###### ยง 70.802 Rules for disclosure of certain specified matters.
####### Comments received in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking.,http://www.regulations.gov.

(g)(1) The Bureau will post written comments received in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking to the appropriate rulemaking docket on the Regulations.gov Web site atThe Bureau reserves the right not to post lengthy paper comments or attachments requiring scanning, although a notice regarding the receipt of any such non-posted comments or attachments will be made to Regulations.gov. TTB will not post duplicate or anonymous comments to Regulations.gov.

(2) All comments and attachments received in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking may be inspected by any person in the Bureau's public reading room by appointment during normal business hours. Copies of comments (or portions therefore) also may be obtained. Appointment and copy requests may be addressed to the appropriate TTB officer in writing to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Washington, DC 20220, or by telephone at 202-453-2270. A person requesting copies should allow a reasonable time for processing the request. The provisions of 31 CFR 1.7, relating to fees, apply to requests made in accordance with this paragraph.
