
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedures and Practices
#### PART 71 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PERMIT PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart H - Decisions
###### Action by the Appropriate TTB Officer
####### ยง 71.108 Suspension, revocation, or annulment proceedings.

(a) Upon receipt of the complete certified record of the hearing the appropriate TTB officer shall enter an order suspending, revoking, or annulling the permit (on TTB F 5000.5) or dismissing the proceedings in accordance with the administrative law judge's findings and decision, unless he disagrees with such findings and decision and files a petition with the Administrator, for review thereof, as provided in ยง 71.115. If the appropriate TTB officer files such petition, he shall withhold issuance of the order, pending the decision of the Administrator, upon receipt of which he shall issue the order in accordance therewith. A signed duplicate original of the order of the appropriate TTB officer shall be served upon the respondent and the original copy containing certificate of service shall be placed in the official record of the proceeding. In all proceedings in which a suspension is imposed, the appropriate TTB officer's order shall state the time when the suspension period set forth in the administrative law judge's decision shall commence and terminate.

(b) In a case where the initial decision is made by the appropriate TTB officer in accordance with ยง 71.79, the appropriate TTB officer will also issue an order suspending, revoking or annulling the permit (on Form 5000.5), or dismissing the proceedings in accordance with his initial decision. A signed duplicated original of the decision and order of the appropriate TTB officer shall be served upon the respondent and the original copy placed in the official record of the proceeding. In all proceedings in which a suspension is imposed, the appropriate TTB officer's order shall state the time when the suspension period set forth in the initial decision shall commence and terminate.
