
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 478 - COMMERCE IN FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart D - Licenses
###### ยง 478.48 Correction of error on license.

(a) Upon receipt of a license issued under the provisions of this part, each licensee shall examine same to ensure that the information contained thereon is accurate. If the license is incorrect, the licensee shall return the license to the Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, with a statement showing the nature of the error. The Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, shall correct the error, if the error was made in his office, and return the license. However, if the error resulted from information contained in the licensee's application for the license, the Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, shall require the licensee to file an amended application setting forth the correct information and a statement explaining the error contained in the application. Upon receipt of the amended application and a satisfactory explanation of the error, the Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, shall make the correction on the license and return same to the licensee.

(b) When the Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, finds through any means other than notice from the licensee that an incorrect license has been issued, the Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, may require the holder of the incorrect license to (1) return the license for correction, and (2) if the error resulted from information contained in the licensee's application for the license, the Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, shall require the licensee to file an amended application setting forth the correct information, and a statement explaining the error contained in the application. The Chief, Federal Firearms Licensing Center, then shall make the correction on the license and return same to the licensee.
