
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 478 - COMMERCE IN FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart E - License Proceedings
###### ยง 478.74 Request for hearing after notice of suspension, revocation, or imposition of civil fine.

If a licensee desires a hearing after receipt of a notice of suspension or revocation of a license, or imposition of a civil fine, the licensee shall file a request, in duplicate, with the Director of Industry Operations within 15 days after receipt of the notice of suspension or revocation of a license, or imposition of a civil fine. On receipt of such request, the Director of Industry Operations shall, as expeditiously as possible, make necessary arrangements for the hearing and advise the licensee of the date, time, location and the name of the officer before whom the hearing will be held. Such notification shall be made no less than 10 days in advance of the date set for the hearing. On conclusion of the hearing and consideration of all the relevant presentations made by the licensee or the licensee's representative, the Director shall render a decision and shall prepare a brief summary of the findings and conclusions on which the decision is based. If the decision is that the license should be revoked, or, in actions under 18 U.S.C. 922(t)(5) or 924(p), that the license should be revoked or suspended, or that a civil fine should be imposed, a certified copy of the summary shall be furnished to the licensee with the final notice of revocation, suspension, or imposition of a civil fine on ATF Form 5300.13. If the decision is that the license should not be revoked, or in actions under 18 U.S.C. 922(t)(5) or 924(p), that the license should not be revoked or suspended, and a civil fine should not be imposed, the licensee shall be notified in writing. During the hearing the licensee will have the opportunity to submit facts and arguments for review and consideration; offers of settlement will not be entertained at the hearing but may be made before or after the hearing.
