
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 478 - COMMERCE IN FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart F - Conduct of Business
###### ยง 478.103 Posting of signs and written notification to purchasers of handguns.

(a) Each licensed importer, manufacturer, dealer, or collector who delivers a handgun to a nonlicensee shall provide such nonlicensee with written notification as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The written notification (ATF I 5300.2) required by paragraph (a) of this section shall state as follows:

(1) The misuse of handguns is a leading contributor to juvenile violence and fatalities.

(2) Safely storing and securing firearms away from children will help prevent the unlawful possession of handguns by juveniles, stop accidents, and save lives.

(3) Federal law prohibits, except in certain limited circumstances, anyone under 18 years of age from knowingly possessing a handgun, or any person from transferring a handgun to a person under 18.

(4) A knowing violation of the prohibition against selling, delivering, or otherwise transferring a handgun to a person under the age of 18 is, under certain circumstances, punishable by up to 10 years in prison.

(c) This written notification shall be delivered to the nonlicensee on ATF I 5300.2, or in the alternative, the same written notification may be delivered to the nonlicensee on another type of written notification, such as a manufacturer's or importer's brochure accompanying the handgun; a manufacturer's or importer's operational manual accompanying the handgun; or a sales receipt or invoice applied to the handgun package or container delivered to a nonlicensee. Any written notification delivered to a nonlicensee other than on ATF I 5300.2 shall include the language set forth in paragraph (b) of this section in its entirety. Any written notification other than ATF I 5300.2 shall be legible, clear, and conspicuous, and the required language shall appear in type size no smaller than 10-point type.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer who delivers a handgun to a nonlicensee shall display at its licensed premises (including temporary business locations at gun shows) a sign as described in paragraph (e) of this section. The sign shall be displayed where customers can readily see it. Licensed importers, manufacturers, and dealers will be provided with such signs by ATF. Replacement signs may be requested from the ATF Distribution Center.

(e) The sign (ATF I 5300.1) required by paragraph (d) of this section shall state as follows:

(f) The sign required by paragraph (d) of this section need not be posted on the premises of any licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer whose only dispositions of handguns to nonlicensees are to nonlicensees who do not appear at the licensed premises and the dispositions otherwise comply with the provisions of this part.
