
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 478 - COMMERCE IN FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart G - Importation
###### ยง 478.113a Importation of firearm barrels by nonlicensees.

(a) A permit will not be issued for a firearm barrel for a handgun not generally recognized as particularly suitable for or readily adaptable to sporting purposes. No firearm barrel shall be imported or brought into the United States or possession thereof by any nonlicensee unless the Director issues a permit authorizing the importation of the firearm barrel.

(b)(1) An application for a permit, ATF Form 6-Part I, to import or bring a firearm barrel into the United States or a possession thereof under this section must be filed, in triplicate, with the Director. The application must be signed and dated and must contain the information requested on the form, including:

(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;

(ii) The country from which the firearm barrel is to be imported;

(iii) The name and address of the foreign seller and foreign shipper;

(iv) A description of the firearm barrel to be imported, including:

(A) The name and address of the manufacturer;

(B) The type (e.g., rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver);

(C) The caliber, gauge, or size;

(D) The model;

(E) The barrel length (in inches);

(F) The quantity;

(G) The unit cost of the firearm barrel;

(v) The specific purpose of importation, including final recipient information if different from the importer; and

(vi) If a handgun barrel, an explanation of why the barrel is for a handgun that is generally recognized as particularly suitable for or readily adaptable to sporting purposes.

(2)(i) If the Director approves the application, such approved application will serve as the permit to import the firearm barrel, and importation of such firearm barrels may continue to be made by the applicant under the approved application (permit) during the period specified thereon. The Director will furnish the approved application (permit) to the applicant and retain two copies thereof for administrative use.

(ii) If the Director disapproves the application, the applicant will be notified of the basis for the disapproval.

(c) A firearm barrel imported or brought into the United States or a possession thereof under the provisions of this section may be released from Customs custody to the person importing the firearm barrel upon showing that the person has obtained a permit from the Director for the importation of the firearm barrel to be released.

(1) In obtaining the release from Customs custody of a firearm barrel authorized by this section to be imported through the use of a permit, the person importing the firearm barrel will prepare ATF Form 6A, in duplicate, and furnish the original ATF Form 6A to the Customs officer releasing the firearm barrel. The Customs officer will, after certification, forward the ATF Form 6A to the address specified on the form.

(2) The ATF Form 6A must contain the information requested on the form, including:

(i) The name and address of the person importing the firearm barrel;

(ii) The name of the manufacturer of the firearm barrel;

(iii) The country of manufacture;

(iv) The type;

(v) The model;

(vi) The caliber or gauge of the firearm barrel so released; and

(vii) The number of firearm barrels released.
