
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 478 - COMMERCE IN FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
##### Subpart H - Records
###### ยง 478.125 Record of receipt and disposition.
####### Privately made firearms.

(i)Except for adjustment or repair of a firearm that is returned to the person from whom it was received on the same day, licensees must record each receipt or other acquisition (including from a personal collection) and disposition (including to a personal collection) of a privately made firearm within the timeframe required by paragraph (e) of this section for firearms. For purposes of this paragraph, the terms "receipt" and "acquisition" shall include same-day or on-the-spot placement of identifying markings unless another licensee is placing the markings for, and under the direct supervision of, the licensee who recorded the acquisition. In that case, the licensee placing the markings need not record an acquisition from the supervising licensee or disposition upon return. The serial number need not be immediately recorded if the firearm is being identified by the licensee, or under the licensee's direct supervision with the licensee's serial number, in accordance with ยง 478.92(a)(2). Once the privately made firearm is so identified, the licensee shall update the record of acquisition entry with the serial number, including the license number prefix, and shall record its disposition in accordance with this section. In this part and part 447, where no manufacturer name has been identified on a privately made firearm (if privately made in the United States), the words "privately made firearm" (or abbreviation "PMF") shall be recorded as the name of the manufacturer.
