
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 479 - MACHINE GUNS, DESTRUCTIVE DEVICES, AND CERTAIN OTHER FIREARMS
##### Subpart F - Transfer Tax
###### Exemptions Relating to Transfers of Firearms
####### ยง 479.88 Special (occupational) taxpayers.

(a) A firearm registered to a person qualified under this part to engage in business as an importer, manufacturer, or dealer may be transferred by that person without payment of the transfer tax to any other person qualified under this part to manufacture, import, or deal in firearms.

(b) The exemption provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall be obtained by the transferor of the firearm filing with the Director an application, Form 3 (Firearms), Application for Tax-exempt Transfer of Firearm and Registration to Special (Occupational) Taxpayer, in duplicate, executed under the penalties of perjury. The application, Form 3 (Firearms), shall (1) show the name and address of the transferor and of the transferee, (2) identify the Federal firearms license and special (occupational) tax stamp of the transferor and of the transferee, (3) show the name and address of the manufacturer and the importer of the firearm, if known, (4) show the type, model, overall length (if applicable), length of barrel, caliber, gauge or size, serial number, and other marks of identification of the firearm, and (5) contain a statement by the transferor that he is entitled to the exemption because the transferee is a person qualified under this part to manufacture, import, or deal in firearms. If the Director approves an application, Form 3 (Firearms), he shall return the original Form 3 (Firearms) to the transferor with the approval noted thereon. Approval of an application, Form 3 (Firearms), by the Director shall remove registration of the firearm reported thereon from the transferor and shall effectuate the registration of that firearm to the transferee. Upon receipt of the approved Form 3 (Firearms), the transferor shall deliver same with the firearm to the transferee. The transferor shall not transfer the firearm to the transferee until his application, Form 3 (Firearms), has been approved by the Director and the original thereof has been returned to the transferor. If the Director disapproves the application, Form 3 (Firearms), he shall return the original Form 3 (Firearms) to the transferor with the reasons for the disapproval stated thereon.

(c) The transferor shall be responsible for establishing the exempt status of the transferee before making a transfer under the provisions of this section. Therefore, before engaging in transfer negotiations with the transferee, the transferor should satisfy himself as to the claimed exempt status of the transferee and the bona fides of the transaction. If not fully satisfied, the transferor should communicate with the Director, report all circumstances regarding the proposed transfer, and await the Director's advice before making application for the transfer. An unapproved transfer or a transfer to an unauthorized person may subject the transferor to civil and criminal liabilities. (See 26 U.S.C. 5852, 5861, and 5871.)
