
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Firearms and Ammunition
#### PART 479 - MACHINE GUNS, DESTRUCTIVE DEVICES, AND CERTAIN OTHER FIREARMS
##### Subpart G - Registration and Identification of Firearms
###### ยง 479.101 Registration of firearms.

(a) The Director shall maintain a central registry of all firearms in the United States which are not in the possession of or under the control of the United States. This registry shall be known as the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record and shall include:

(1) Identification of the firearm as required by this part;

(2) Date of registration; and

(3) Identification and address of person entitled to possession of the firearm as required by this part.

(b) Each manufacturer, importer, and maker shall register each firearm he manufactures, imports, or makes in the manner prescribed by this part. Each firearm transferred shall be registered to the transferee by the transferor in the manner prescribed by this part. No firearm may be registered by a person unlawfully in possession of the firearm except during an amnesty period established under section 207 of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1235).

(c) A person shown as possessing firearms by the records maintained by the Director pursuant to the National Firearms Act (26 U.S.C. Chapter 53) in force on October 31, 1968, shall be considered to have registered the firearms in his possession which are disclosed by that record as being in his possession on October 31, 1968.

(d) The National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record shall include firearms registered to the possessors thereof under the provisions of section 207 of the Gun Control Act of 1968.

(e) A person possessing a firearm registered to him shall retain proof of registration which shall be made available to any ATF officer upon request.

(f) A firearm not identified as required by this part shall not be registered.
