
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart C - Administrative and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 555.30 Reporting theft or loss of explosive materials.

(a) Any licensee or permittee who has knowledge of the theft or loss of any explosive materials from his stock shall, within 24 hours of discovery, report the theft or loss by telephoning 1-800-461-8841 (nationwide toll free number) and on ATF F 5400.5 in accordance with the instructions on the form. Theft or loss of any explosive materials shall also be reported to appropriate local authorities.

(b) Any other person, except a carrier of explosive materials, who has knowledge of the theft or loss of any explosive materials from his stock shall, within 24 hours of discovery, report the theft or loss by telephoning 1-800-461-8841 (nationwide toll free number) and in writing to the nearest ATF office. Theft or loss shall be reported to appropriate local authorities.

(c) Reports of theft or loss of explosive materials under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must include the following information, if known:

(1) The manufacturer or brand name.

(2) The manufacturer's marks of identification (date and shift code).

(3) Quantity (applicable quantity units, such as pounds of explosives, number of detonators, etc.).

(4) Description (dynamite, blasting agents, detonators, etc.) and United Nations (UN) identification number, hazard division number, and classification letter, e.g., 1.1D, as classified by the U.S. Department of Transportation at 49 CFR 172.101 and 173.52.

(5) Size (length and diameter).

(d) A carrier of explosive materials who has knowledge of the theft or loss of any explosive materials shall, within 24 hours of discovery, report the theft or loss by telephoning 1-800-461-8841 (nationwide toll free number). Theft or loss shall also be reported to appropriate local authorities. Reports of theft or loss of explosive materials by carriers shall include the following information, if known:

(1) The manufacturer or brand name.

(2) Quantity (applicable quantity units, such as pounds of explosives, number of detonators, etc.).

(3) Description (United Nations (UN) identification number, hazard division number, and classification letter, e.g., 1.1D) as classified by the U.S. Department of Transportation at 49 CFR 172.101 and 173.52.
