
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart C - Administrative and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### § 555.33 Background checks and clearances.
####### Background checks.

(a)(1) If the Director receives from a licensee or permittee the names and appropriate identifying information of responsible persons and employees who will be authorized by the employer to possess explosive materials in the course of employment with the employer, the Director will conduct a background check in accordance with this section.

(2) The Director will determine whether the responsible person or employee is one of the persons described in any paragraph of section 842(i) of the Act (see § 555.26). In making such determination, the Director may take into account a letter or document issued under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3)(i) If the Director determines that the responsible person or the employee is not one of the persons described in any paragraph of section 842(i) of the Act (see § 555.26), the Director will notify the employer in writing or electronically of the determination and issue, to the responsible person or employee, as the case may be, a letter of clearance which confirms the determination.

(ii) If the Director determines that the responsible person or employee is one of the persons described in any paragraph of section 842(i) of the Act (see § 555.26), ATF will notify the employer in writing or electronically of the determination and issue to the responsible person or the employee, as the case may be, a document that confirms the determination; explains the grounds for the determination; provides information on how the disability may be relieved; and explains how the determination may be appealed. The employer will retain the notification as part of his permanent records in accordance with § 555.121. The employer will take immediate steps to remove the responsible person from his position directing the management or policies of the business or operations as they relate to explosive materials or, as the case may be, to remove the employee from a position requiring the possession of explosive materials. Also, if the employer has listed the employee as a person authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials, as specified in § 555.103 or § 555.105, the employer must remove the employee from such list and immediately, and in no event later than the second business day after such change, notify distributors of such change.
