
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart C - Administrative and Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 555.33 Background checks and clearances.
####### Employees.

(2)The letter of denial, among other things, will advise an employee who elects to challenge an adverse determination to submit the fingerprint cards as described above. The employee also will be advised of the agency name and address that originated the record containing the information causing the adverse determination ("originating agency"). At that time, and where appropriate, an employee is encouraged to apply to the originating agency to challenge the accuracy of the record(s) upon which the denial is based. The originating agency may respond to the individual's application by addressing the individual's specific reasons for the challenge, and by indicating whether additional information or documents are required. If the record is corrected as a result of the application to the originating agency, the individual may so notify ATF which will, in turn, verify the record correction with the originating agency and take all necessary steps to contact the agency responsible for the record system and correct the record. The employee may provide to ATF additional and appropriate documentation or record(s) establishing the legal and/or factual basis for the challenge to ATF's decision to uphold the initial denial. If ATF does not receive such additional documentation or record(s) within 45 days of the date of the decision upholding the initial denial, ATF will close the appeal.
