
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart D - Licenses and Permits
###### ยง 555.41 General.
####### Importers, manufacturers, and dealers.,see,see

(2)Each person intending to engage in business as an explosive materials importer, manufacturer, or dealer must file an application, with the required fee (ยง 555.42), with ATF in accordance with the instructions on the form (ยง 555.45). A license will, subject to law, entitle the licensee to transport, ship, and receive explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce, and to engage in the business specified by the license, at the location described on the license. A separate license must be obtained for each business premises at which the applicant is to manufacture, import, or distribute explosive materials except under the following circumstances:

(i) A separate license will not be required for storage facilities operated by the licensee as an integral part of one business premises or to cover a location used by the licensee solely for maintaining the records required by this part.

(ii) A separate license will not be required of a licensed manufacturer with respect to his on-site manufacturing.

(iii) It will not be necessary for a licensed importer or a licensed manufacturer (for purposes of sale or distribution) to also obtain a dealer's license in order to engage in business on his licensed premises as a dealer in explosive materials. No licensee will be required to obtain a user permit to lawfully transport, ship, or receive explosive materials in interstate or foreign commerce.

(iv) A separate license will not be required of licensed manufacturers with respect to their on-site manufacture of theatrical flash powder.
