
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart D - Licenses and Permits
###### ยง 555.50 Correction of error on license or permit.

(a) Upon receipt of a license or permit issued under this part, each licensee or permittee shall examine the license or permit to insure that the information on it is accurate. If the license or permit is incorrect, the licensee or permittee shall return the license or permit to the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, with a statement showing the nature of the error. The Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, shall correct the error, if the error was made in his office, and return the license or permit. However, if the error resulted from information contained in the licensee's or permittee's application for the license or permit, the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, shall require the licensee or permittee to file an amended application setting forth the correct information and a statement explaining the error contained in the application. Upon receipt of the amended application and a satisfactory explanation of the error, the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, shall make the correction on the license or permit and return it to the licensee or permittee.

(b) When the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, finds through any means other than notice from the licensee or permittee that an incorrect license or permit has been issued, (1) the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, may require the holder of the incorrect license or permit to return the license or permit for correction, and (2) if the error resulted from information contained in the licensee's or permittee's application for the license or permit, the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, shall require the licensee or permittee to file an amended application setting forth the correct information, and a statement satisfactorily explaining the error contained in the application. The Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, then shall make the correction on the license or permit and return it to the licensee or permittee.
