
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart D - Licenses and Permits
###### § 555.57 Change of control, change in responsible persons, and change of employees.

(a) In the case of a corporation or association holding a license or permit under this part, if actual or legal control of the corporation or association changes, directly or indirectly, whether by reason of change in stock ownership or control (in the corporation holding a license or permit or in any other corporation), by operation of law, or in any other manner, the licensee or permittee shall, within 30 days of the change, give written notification executed under the penalties of perjury, to the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center. Upon expiration of the license or permit, the corporation or association shall file an ATF F 5400.13 or an ATF F 5400.16 as required by § 555.45, and pay the fee prescribed in § 555.42(b) or § 555.43(b).

(b) Each person holding the license or permit must report to the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, any change in responsible persons or employees authorized to possess explosive materials. Such report must be submitted within 30 days of the change and must include appropriate identifying information for each responsible person. Reports relating to newly hired employees authorized to possess explosive materials must be submitted on ATF F 5400.28 for each employee.

(c) Upon receipt of a report, the Chief, Federal Explosives Licensing Center, will conduct a background check, if appropriate, in accordance with § 555.33.

(d) The reports required by paragraph (b) of this section must be retained as part of a licensee's or permittee's permanent records for the period specified in § 555.121.
