
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart E - License and Permit Proceedings
###### ยง 555.75 Hearing after denial of renewal application or revocation of license or permit.

If a licensee or permittee whose renewal application has been denied or whose license or permit has been revoked desires a hearing, he shall file a request for a hearing with the Director, Industry Operations. In the case of the revocation of a license or permit, he may include a request for a stay of the effective date of the revocation. On receipt of the request the Director, Industry Operations shall advise the licensee or permittee whether the stay of the effective date of the revocation is granted. If the stay of the effective date of the revocation is granted, the Director, Industry Operations shall refer the matter to an administrative law judge who shall set a time and place (see ยง 555.77) for a hearing and shall serve notice of the hearing upon the licensee or permittee and the Director, Industry Operations at least 10 days in advance of the hearing date. If the stay of the effective date of the revocation is denied, the licensee or permittee may request an immediate hearing. In this event, the Director, Industry Operations shall immediately refer the matter to an administrative law judge who shall set a date and place for a hearing, which date shall be no later than 10 days from the date the licensee or permittee requested an immediate hearing. The hearing will be held in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 771 of this chapter. Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, and as expeditiously as possible, the administrative law judge shall render his decision. He shall certify to the complete record of the proceeding before him and shall immediately forward the complete certified record, together with two copies of his decision, to the Director, Industry Operations, serve one copy of his decision on the licensee or permittee or his counsel, and transmit a copy to the attorney for the Government.
