
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart E - License and Permit Proceedings
###### ยง 555.76 Action by Director, Industry Operations.
####### Initial application proceedings.

(a)If, upon receipt of the record and the recommended decision of the administrative law judge, the Director, Industry Operations decides that the license or permit should be issued, the Director, Industry Operations shall cause the application to be approved, briefly stating, for the record, his reasons. If he contemplates that the denial should stand, he shall serve a copy of the administrative law judge's recommended decision on the applicant, informing the applicant of his contemplated action and affording the applicant not more than 10 days in which to submit proposed findings and conclusions or exceptions to the recommended decision with supporting reasons. If the Director, Industry Operations, after consideration of the record of the hearing and of any proposed findings, conclusions, or exceptions filed with him by the applicant, approves the findings, conclusions and recommended decision of the administrative law judge, the Director, Industry Operations shall cause the license or permit to be issued or disapproved the application accordingly. If he disapproves the findings, conclusions, and recommendation of the administrative law judge, in whole or in part, he shall by order make such findings and conclusions as in his opinion are warranted by the law and the facts in the record. Any decision of the Director, Industry Operations ordering the disapproval of an initial application for a license or permit shall state the findings and conclusions upon which it is based, including his ruling upon each proposed finding, conclusion, and exception to the administrative law judge's recommended decision, together with a statement of his findings and conclusions, and reasons or basis for his findings and conclusions, upon all material issues of fact, law or discretion presented on the record. A signed duplicate original of the decision will be served upon the applicant and the original copy containing certificate of service will be placed in the official record of the proceedings. If the decision of the Director, Industry Operations is in favor of the applicant, he shall issue the license or permit, to be effective on issuance.
