
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart E - License and Permit Proceedings
###### ยง 555.76 Action by Director, Industry Operations.
####### Renewal application and revocation proceedings.

(b)Upon receipt of the complete certified records of the hearing, the Director, Industry Operations shall enter an order confirming the revocation of the license or permit, or disapproving the application, in accordance with the administrative law judge's findings and decision, unless he disagrees with the findings and decision. A signed duplicate original of the order, ATF F 5400.9, will be served upon the licensee or permittee and the original copy containing certificate of service will be placed in the official record of the proceedings. If the Director, Industry Operations disagrees with the findings and decision of the administrative law judge, he shall file a petition with the Director for review of the findings and decision, as provided in ยง 555.79. In either case, if the renewal application denial is sustained, a copy of the application marked "Disapproved" will be returned to the applicant. If the renewal application denial is reversed, a license or permit will be issued to become effective on expiration of the license or permit being renewed, or on the date of issuance, whichever is later. If the proceedings involve the revocation of a license or permit which expired before a decision is in favor of the licensee or permittee, the Director, Industry Operations shall:

(1) If renewal application was timely filed and a stay of the effective date of the revocation was granted, cause to be issued a license or permit effective on the date of issuance;

(2) If renewal application was not timely filed but a stay of the effective date of the revocation had been granted, request that a renewal application be filed and, following that, cause to be issued a license or permit to be effective on issuance; or

(3) If a stay of the effective date of the revocation had not been granted, request that an application be filed as provided in ยง 555.45, and process it in the same manner as for an application for an original license or permit.
