
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart E - License and Permit Proceedings
###### § 555.79 Appeal on petition to the Director.

An appeal to the Director is not required prior to filing an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for judicial review. An appeal may be taken by the applicant, licensee, or permittee to the Director from a decision resulting from a hearing under § 555.73 or § 555.75. An appeal may also be taken by a Director, Industry Operations from a decision resulting from a hearing under § 555.75 as provided in § 555.76(b). The appeal shall be taken by filing a petition for review on appeal with the Director within 15 days of the service of an administrative law judge's decision or an order. The petition will set forth facts tending to show action of an arbitrary nature, action without reasonable warrant in fact, or action contrary to law and regulations. A copy of the petition will be filed with the Director, Industry Operations or served on the applicant, licensee, or permittee, as the case may be. In the event of appeal, the Director, Industry Operations shall immediately forward the complete original record, by certified mail, to the Director for his consideration, review, and disposition as provided in subpart I of part 771 of this chapter. When, on appeal, the Director affirms the initial decision of the Director, Industry Operations or the administrative law judge, as the case may be, the initial decision will be final.
