
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart F - Conduct of Business or Operations
###### ยง 555.103 Transactions among licensees/permittees and transactions among licensees and holders of user permits.
####### Verification of license/user permit.

(2)(i) Prior to or with the first order of explosive materials, the distributee must provide the distributor a certified copy (or, in the case of a user-limited, the original) of the distributee's license or user permit. However, licensees or holders of user permits that are business organizations may (in lieu of a certified copy of a license or user permit) provide the distributor with a certified list that contains the name, address, license or user permit number, and date of the license or user permit expiration of each location.

(ii) The distributee must also provide the distributor with a current list of the names of persons authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials on behalf of the distributee. The distributee ordering explosive materials must keep the list current and provide updated lists to licensees and holders of user permits on a timely basis. A distributor may not transfer possession of explosive materials to any person whose name does not appear on the current list of names of persons authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials on behalf of the distributee. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, in all instances the distributor must verify the identity of the distributee, or the employee of the distributee accepting possession of explosive materials on behalf of the distributee, by examining an identification document (as defined in ยง 555.11) before relinquishing possession.
