
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart F - Conduct of Business or Operations
###### ยง 555.105 Distributions to limited permittees.
####### Distributions to holders of limited permits on and after May 24, 2003.

(b)(1) This section will apply in any case where distribution of explosive materials to the distributee is not otherwise prohibited by the Act or this part.

(2) A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer or a licensed dealer may distribute explosive materials to a holder of a limited permit if such permittee is a resident of the same State in which the licensee's business premises are located, the holder of the limited permit presents in person or by mail ATF Form 5400.4, Limited Permittee Transaction Report (LPTR), and the licensee completes Form 5400.4 in accordance with ยง 555.126(b). In no event will a licensee distribute explosive materials to a holder of a limited permit unless the holder presents a Form 5400.4 with an original unaltered and unexpired Intrastate Purchase of Explosives Coupon (IPEC), ATF Form 5400.30, affixed. The coupon must bear the name, address, permit number, and the coupon number of the limited permittee seeking distribution of the explosives.

(3) A holder of a limited permit is authorized to receive explosive materials from a licensee or permittee whose premises are located in the same State of residence in which the premises of the holder of the limited permit are located on no more than 6 separate occasions during the one-year period of the permit. For purposes of this section, the term "6 separate occasions" means six deliveries of explosive materials. Each delivery must-

(i) Relate to a single purchase transaction made on one ATF F 5400.4;

(ii) Be referenced on one commercial invoice or purchase order; and

(iii) Be delivered to the holder of the limited permit in one shipment delivered at the same time.
