
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart F - Conduct of Business or Operations
###### ยง 555.105 Distributions to limited permittees.
####### See

(4) A holder of a user permit may dispose of surplus stocks of explosive materials to a licensee or holder of a user permit, or a holder of a limited permit who is a resident of the same State in which the premises of the holder of the user permit are located. A holder of a limited permit may dispose of surplus stocks of explosive materials to another holder of a limited permit who is a resident of the same State in which the premises of the distributor are located, if the transaction complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section and ยง 555.126(b). A holder of a limited permit may also dispose of surplus stocks of explosive materials to a licensee or holder of a user permit if the disposition occurs in the State of residence of the holder of the limited permit. (ยง 555.103.)

(5) Each holder of a limited permit ordering explosive materials must furnish the distributing licensee prior to or with the first order of the explosive materials a current list of the names of employees authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials on behalf of the limited permittee. The distributee ordering explosive materials must keep the list current and provide updated lists to licensees and holders of user permits on a timely basis. A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, licensed dealer, or permittee, selling or otherwise distributing explosive materials to a holder of a limited permit must, prior to delivering the explosive materials, obtain from the limited permittee a current list of persons who are authorized to accept deliveries of explosive materials on behalf of the limited permittee. A licensee or permittee may not deliver explosive materials to a person whose name does not appear on the list.
