
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 7 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF MALT BEVERAGES
##### Subpart N - Advertising of Malt Beverages
###### ยง 7.235 Prohibited practices.
####### General prohibition.

(a)An advertisement of malt beverages must not contain:

(1) Any statement that is false or untrue in any material particular, or that, irrespective of falsity, directly, or by ambiguity, omission, or inference, or by the addition of irrelevant, scientific or technical matter, tends to create a misleading impression.

(2) Any false or misleading statement that explicitly or implicitly disparages a competitor's product. This does not prevent truthful and accurate comparisons between products (such as "Our ale contains more hops than Brand X") or statements of opinion (such as "We think our beer tastes better than any other beer on the market").

(3) Any statement, design, device, or representation which is obscene or indecent.

(4) Any statement, design, device, or representation of or relating to analyses, standards, or tests, irrespective of falsity, which the appropriate TTB officer finds to be likely to mislead the consumer.

(5) Any statement, design, device, or representation of or relating to any guarantee, irrespective of falsity, which the appropriate TTB officer finds to be likely to mislead the consumer. Money-back guarantees are not prohibited.

(6) [Reserved].

(7) [Reserved].

(8) Any statement, design, device, or representation that tends to create a false or misleading impression that the malt beverage contains distilled spirits or is a distilled spirits product. Advertisements may include the types of statements that are listed as being not prohibited on labels in ยง 7.128(b).
