
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Explosives
#### PART 555 - COMMERCE IN EXPLOSIVES
##### Subpart K - Storage
###### ยง 555.214 Storage within types 1, 2, 3, and 4 magazines.

(a) Explosive materials within a magazine are not to be placed directly against interior walls and must be stored so as not to interfere with ventilation. To prevent contact of stored explosive materials with walls, a nonsparking lattice work or other nonsparking material may be used.

(b) Containers of explosive materials are to be stored so that marks are visible. Stocks of explosive materials are to be stored so they can be easily counted and checked upon inspection.

(c) Except with respect to fiberboard or other nonmetal containers, containers of explosive materials are not to be unpacked or repacked inside a magazine or within 50 feet of a magazine, and must not be unpacked or repacked close to other explosive materials. Containers of explosive materials must be closed while being stored.

(d) Tools used for opening or closing containers of explosive materials are to be of nonsparking materials, except that metal slitters may be used for opening fiberboard containers. A wood wedge and a fiber, rubber, or wooden mallet are to be used for opening or closing wood containers of explosive materials. Metal tools other than nonsparking transfer conveyors are not to be stored in any magazine containing high explosives.
