
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter II - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice
### Subchapter E - Explosive License and Permit Proceedings
#### PART 771 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN EXPLOSIVE LICENSE AND PERMIT PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart I - Review
###### ยง 771.120 Appeal on petition to the Director.

(a) An appeal to the Director may be made by the applicant, licensee, or permittee, or by the Director of Industry Operations (DIO). For the applicant, licensee, or permittee, such appeal shall be made by filing a petition for review on appeal with the Director within 15 days of the service of the adverse initial decision by the Director of Industry Operations. For the Director of Industry Operations, such appeal shall be taken by filing a petition for review on appeal with the Director within 15 days of the issuance of the administrative law judge's decision recommending against revocation or denial of renewal. The petitioning applicant, licensee, or permittee must submit arguments showing that the Director of Industry Operations' initial decision, and if applicable the underlying administrative law judge's recommended decision, was without reasonable warrant in fact or contrary to law and regulations. The petitioning DIO must submit arguments showing the administrative law judge's recommended decision was without reasonable warrant in fact or contrary to law and regulations. Nothing in this part shall limit the authority of the Director to review the administrative law judge's decision exercising all the powers that he would have in making the recommended decision.

(b) A copy of the petition shall be filed with the Director of Industry Operations or served on the applicant, licensee, or permittee, as the case may be. In the event of an appeal, the Director of Industry Operations shall immediately certify and forward the complete original record, by certified mail, to the Director, for his consideration and review.
