
# Title 27 - Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
## Chapter I - Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Alcohol
#### PART 8 - EXCLUSIVE OUTLETS
##### Subpart C - Prohibited Practices
###### ยง 8.23 Third party arrangements.

Industry member requirements, by agreement or otherwise, with non-retailers which result in a retailer being required to purchase the industry member's products are within the exclusive outlet provisions. These industry member requirements are covered whether the agreement or other arrangement originates with the industry member or the third party. For example, a supplier enters into a contractual agreement or other arrangement with a third party. This agreement or arrangement contains an industry member requirement as described above. The third party, a ballclub, or municipal or private corporation, not acting as a retailer, leases the concession rights and is able to control the purchasing decisions of the retailer. The third party, as a result of the requirement, by agreement or otherwise, with the industry member, requires the retailer to purchase the industry member's products to the exclusion, in whole or in part, of products sold or offered for sale by other persons in interstate or foreign commerce. The business arrangements entered into by the industry member and the third party may consist of such things as sponsoring radio or television broadcasting, paying for advertising, or providing other services or things of value.
