
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### Office of Legislative Affairs
####### ยง 0.19 Functions of the Office.

The Office of International Affairs has the following duties and responsibilities:

(a) To initiate and direct the development and articulation of international telecommunications policies, consistent with the priorities of the Commission.

(b) To advise the Chairperson and Commissioners on matters of international telecommunications policy, and on the adequacy of the Commission's actions to promote the vital interests of the American public in international commerce, national defense, and foreign policy.

(c) To represent the Commission on international communications matters, including matters involving international, regional, and cross border spectrum allocation and frequency coordination at both domestic and international conferences and meetings, and to direct and coordinate the Commission's preparation for such conferences and meetings.

(d) To direct and coordinate, in consultation with other Bureaus and Offices as appropriate, negotiation of international agreements to provide for arrangements and procedures for coordination of radio frequency assignments to prevent or resolve international radio interference involving U.S. licensees.

(e) To ensure fulfillment of the Commission's responsibilities under international agreements and treaty obligations, and consistent with Commission policy, in coordination with other Bureaus and Offices as appropriate, to ensure that the Commission's regulations, procedures, and frequency allocations comply with the mandatory requirements of all applicable international and bilateral agreements.

(f) To serve as the single focal point within the Commission for cooperation and consultation on international telecommunications matters with other Federal agencies, international or foreign organizations, and appropriate regulatory bodies and officials of foreign governments.

(g) To develop, recommend, and administer policies, rules, standards, and procedures regarding the authorization and regulation of international telecommunications facilities and services, submarine cables, international broadcast services, and foreign ownership issues.

(h) To develop, recommend, and administer policies, rules, standards, and procedures regarding coordination with Executive Branch agencies on national security, law enforcement, foreign policy, trade policy, or concerns.

(i) To monitor compliance with the terms and conditions of authorizations and licenses and pursue enforcement actions in conjunction with appropriate bureaus and offices.

(j) To develop, coordinate with other Federal agencies, and administer the regulatory assistance and training programs for foreign administrations to promote telecommunications development.

(k) To provide advice and technical assistance to U.S. trade officials in the negotiation and implementation of communications trade agreements, and consult with other bureaus and offices as appropriate with respect thereto.

(l) To conduct economic, legal, technical, statistical, and other appropriate studies, surveys, and analyses in support of international telecommunications policies and programs.

(m) To collect and disseminate within the Commission information and data on international communications policies, regulatory and market developments in other countries, and international organizations.

(n) To work with the Office of Legislative Affairs to coordinate the Commission's activities on significant matters of international policy with appropriate Congressional offices.

(o) To advise the Chairperson on priorities for international travel and develop, coordinate, and administer the international travel plan.

(p) Managing efforts across the Bureaus and Offices to participate in international standards activities and serving as the FCC's senior representative at in-person standards meetings around the world in conjunction with staff from other Bureaus and Offices as needed.

(q) To issue orders revoking a common carrier's operating authority pursuant to section 214 of the Act, and issue orders to cease and desist such operations, in cases where the presiding officer has issued a certification order to the Commission that the carrier has waived its opportunity for hearing under that section.

(r) To exercise the authority to issue non-hearing related subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, schedules of charges, contracts, agreements, and any other records deemed relevant to the investigation of matters within the jurisdiction of the Office of International Affairs. Before issuing a subpoena, the Office of International Affairs shall obtain the approval of the Office of General Counsel.

(s) To assist the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau on issues involving informal consumer complaints and other general inquiries by consumers.

(t) To coordinate with the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau on all matters affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, disaster management, and related issues.
