
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - FM Broadcast Translator Stations and FM Broadcast Booster Stations
###### ยง 74.1204 Protection of FM broadcast, FM Translator and LP100 stations.

(a) An application for an FM translator station will not be accepted for filing if the proposed operation would involve overlap of predicted field contours with any other authorized commercial or noncommercial educational FM broadcast stations, FM translators, and Class D (secondary) noncommercial educational FM stations; or if it would result in new or increased overlap with an LP100 station, as set forth:

(1) Commercial Class B FM Stations (Protected Contour: 0.5 mV/m)

(2) Commercial Class B1 FM Stations (Protected Contour: 0.7 mV/m)

(3) All Other Classes of FM Stations (Protected Contour: 1 mV/m)

(4) LP100 stations (Protected Contour: 1 mV/m)

(b) The following standards must be used to compute the distances to the pertinent contours:

(1) The distances to the protected contours are computed using Figure 1 of ยง 73.333 [F(50,50) curves] of this chapter.

(2) The distances to the interference contours are computed using Figure 1a of ยง 73.333 [F(50,10) curves] of this chapter. In the event that the distance to the contour is below 16 kilometers (approximately 10 miles), and therefore not covered by Figure 1a, curves in Figure 1 must be used.

(3) The effective radiated power (ERP) to be used is the maximum ERP of the main radiated lobe in the pertinent azimuthal direction. If the transmitting antenna is not horizontally polarized only, either the vertical component or the horizontal component of the ERP should be used, whichever is greater in the pertinent azimuthal direction.

(4) The antenna height to be used is the height of the radiation center above the average terrain along each pertinent radial, determined in accordance with ยง 73.313(d) of this chapter.

(c) An application for a change (other than a change in channel) in the authorized facilities of an FM translator station will be accepted even though overlap of field strength contours would occur with another station in an area where such overlap does not already exist, if:

(1) The total area of overlap with that station would not be increased:

(2) The area of overlap with any other station would not increase;

(3) The area of overlap does not move significantly closer to the station receiving the overlap; and,

(4) No area of overlap would be created with any station with which the overlap does not now exist.

(d) The provisions of this section concerning prohibited overlap will not apply where the area of such overlap lies entirely over water. In addition, an application otherwise precluded by this section will be accepted if it can be demonstrated that no actual interference will occur due to intervening terrain, lack of population or such other factors as may be applicable.
