
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - FM Broadcast Translator Stations and FM Broadcast Booster Stations
###### § 74.1233 Processing FM translator and booster station applications.
####### et seq.

(4) Timely filed applications for new facilities or for major modifications for reserved band FM Translators will be processed pursuant to the procedures set forth in subpart K of part 73 (§ 73.7000) Subsequently, the FCC will release Public Notices identifying: mutually exclusive groups of applications; applications received during the window filing period which are found to be non-mutually exclusive; tentative selectees determined pursuant to the point system procedures set forth in § 73.7003 of this chapter; and acceptable applications. The Public Notices will also announce: additional procedures to be followed for certain groups of applications; deadlines for filing additional information; and dates by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of § 73.7004 of this chapter. If the applicant is duly qualified, and upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served by the granting of the application, it will be granted. If an application is found not to be acceptable for filing, the application will be returned, and subject to the amendment requirements of § 73.3522 of this chapter.

(c) In the case of an application for an instrument of authorization, other than a license pursuant to a construction permit, grant will be based on the application, the pleadings filed, and such other matters that may be officially noticed. Before a grant can be made it must be determined that:

(1) There is not pending a mutually exclusive application.

(2) The applicant is legally, technically, financially and otherwise qualified;

(3) The applicant is not in violation of any provisions of law, the FCC rules, or established policies of the FCC; and

(4) A grant of the application would otherwise serve the public interest, convenience and necessity.

(d) Processing non-reserved band FM translator applications.

(1) Applications for minor modifications for non-reserved band FM translator stations, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may be filed at any time, unless restricted by the FCC, and will be processed on a "first come/first served" basis, with the first acceptable application cutting off the filing rights of subsequent, conflicting applicants. The FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing those applications accepted for filing. Applications received on the same day will be treated as simultaneously filed and, if they are found to be mutually exclusive, must be resolved through settlement or technical amendment. Conflicting applications received after the filing of a first acceptable application will be grouped, according to filing date, behind the lead application in a queue. The priority rights of the lead applicant, against all other applicants, are determined by the date of filing, but the filing date for subsequent, conflicting applicants only reserves a place in the queue. The rights of an applicant in a queue ripen only upon a final determination that the lead applicant is unacceptable and if the queue member is reached and found acceptable. The queue will remain behind the lead applicant until a construction permit is finally granted, at which time the queue dissolves.

(2)(i) The FCC will specify by Public Notice, pursuant to § 73.5002(a) of this chapter, a period for filing non-reserved band FM translator applications for a new station or for major modifications in the facilities of an authorized station. FM translator applications for new facilities or for major modifications, whether for commercial broadcast stations or noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6), will be accepted only during these specified periods. Applications submitted prior to the window opening date identified in the Public Notice will be returned as premature. Applications submitted after the specified deadline will be dismissed with prejudice as untimely.

(ii) Such FM translator applicants will be subject to the provisions of §§ 1.2105 and 73.5002(a) regarding the submission of the short-form application, FCC Form 175, and all appropriate certifications, information and exhibits contained therein. To determine which FM translator applications are mutually exclusive, FM translator applicants must submit the engineering data contained in FCC Form 349 as a supplement to the short-form application. Such engineering data will not be studied for technical acceptability, but will be protected from subsequently filed applications as of the close of the window filing period. Determinations as to the acceptability or grantability of an applicant's proposal will not be made prior to an auction.

(iii) FM translator applicants will be subject to the provisions of § 1.2105 regarding the modification and dismissal of their short-form applications.

(iv) Consistent with § 1.2105(a), beginning January 1, 1999, all short-form applications must be filed electronically.

(3) Subsequently, the FCC will release Public Notices:

(i) Identifying the short-form applications received during the appropriate filing period or "window" which are found to be mutually exclusive, including any applications for noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 397(6), as well as the procedures the FCC will use to resolve the mutually exclusive applications;

(ii) Establishing a date, time and place for an auction;

(iii) Providing information regarding the methodology of competitive bidding to be used in the upcoming auction, bid submission and payment procedures, upfront payment procedures, upfront payment deadlines, minimum opening bid requirements and applicable reserve prices in accordance with the provisions of § 73.5002;

(iv) Identifying applicants who have submitted timely upfront payments and, thus, are qualified to bid in the auction.

(4) After the close of the filing window, the FCC will also release a Public Notice identifying any short-form applications which are found to be non-mutually exclusive, including any applications for noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6). These non-mutually exclusive applicants will be required to submit the appropriate long form application within 30 days of the Public Notice and, for applicants for commercial broadcast stations, pursuant to the provisions of § 73.5005 of this chapter. Non-mutually exclusive applications for commercial broadcast stations will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such non-mutually exclusive applications determined to be acceptable for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.5006 and 73.3584 of this chapter. Non-mutually exclusive applications for noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described by 47 U.S.C. 397(6), will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such non-mutually exclusive applications determined to be acceptable for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.7004 and 73.3584 of this chapter. If the applicants are duly qualified, and upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served by the granting of the non-mutually exclusive long-form application, the same will be granted.

(5)(i) Pursuant to § 1.2107 of this chapter, a winning bidder that meets its down payment obligations in a timely manner must, within 30 days of the release of the public notice announcing the close of the auction, submit the appropriate long-form application for each construction permit for which it was the winning bidder. Long-form applications filed by winning bidders shall include the exhibits identified in § 73.5005 of this chapter.

(ii) Winning bidders are required to pay the balance of their winning bids in a lump sum prior to the deadline established by the Commission pursuant to § 1.2109(a) of this chapter. Long-form construction permit applications will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such applications that have been accepted for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.5006 and 73.3584. Construction permits will be granted by the Commission only after full and timely payment of winning bids and any applicable late fees, and if the applicant is duly qualified, and upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served. If a winning bidder fails to pay the balance of its winning bid in a lump sum by the applicable deadline as specified by the Commission, it will be allowed to make payment within ten (10) business days after the payment deadline, provided that it also pays a late fee equal to five (5) percent of the amount due in accordance with § 1.2109(a) of this chapter. Construction of the FM translator station shall not commence until the grant of such permit to the winning bidder and only after full and timely payment of winning bids and any applicable late fees.

(iii) All long-form applications will be cut-off as of the date of filing with the FCC and will be protected from subsequently filed long-form translator applications. Applications will be required to protect all previously filed applications. Winning bidders filing long-form applications may change the technical proposals specified in their previously submitted short-form applications, but such change may not constitute a major change. If the submitted long-form application would constitute a major change from the proposal submitted in the short-form application or the allotment, the long-form application will be returned pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(e) Selection of mutually exclusive reserved band FM translator applications.

(1) Applications for FM translator stations proposing to provide fill-in service (within the primary station's protected contour) of the commonly owned primary station will be given priority over all other applications.

(2) Where applications for FM translator stations are mutually exclusive and do not involve a proposal to provide fill-in service of commonly owned primary stations, the FCC may stipulate different frequencies as necessary for the applicants.

(3) Where there are no available frequencies to substitute for a mutually exclusive application, the FCC will apply the same point system identified for full service reserved band FM stations in § 73.7003(b) of this chapter. In the event of a tie, the FCC will consider:
