
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - FM Broadcast Translator Stations and FM Broadcast Booster Stations
###### § 74.1233 Processing FM translator and booster station applications.
####### 2

() Upon a showing of interference to or from any other broadcast station, remedial changes to any same-band frequency; or

(B) Any change in antenna location where the station would not continue to provide 1 mV/m service to some portion of its previously authorized 1 mV/m service area. In addition, any change in frequency relocating an unbuilt station from the non-reserved band to the reserved band, or from the reserved band to the non-reserved band, will be considered major. All other changes will be considered minor.

(ii) All major changes are subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3580 and 1.1104 of this chapter pertaining to major changes.

(2) In the second group are applications for licenses and all other changes in the facilities of the authorized station.

(b) Processing booster and reserved band FM translator applications.

(1) Applications for minor modifications for reserved band FM translator stations, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may be filed at any time, unless restricted by the FCC, and will be processed on a "first come/first served" basis, with the first acceptable application cutting off the filing rights of subsequent, conflicting applicants. The FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing those applications accepted for filing. Conflicting applications received on the same day will be treated as simultaneously filed and mutually exclusive. Conflicting applications received after the filing of a first acceptable application will be grouped, according to filing date, behind the lead application in a queue. The priority rights of the lead applicant, against all other applicants, are determined by the date of filing, but the filing date for subsequent, conflicting applicants only reserves a place in the queue. The rights of an applicant in a queue ripen only upon a final determination that the lead applicant is unacceptable and if the queue member is reached and found acceptable. The queue will remain behind the lead applicant until a construction permit is finally granted, at which time the queue dissolves.

(2) All other applications for booster stations and reserved band FM translator stations will be processed as nearly as possible in the order in which they are filed. Such applications will be placed in the processing line in numerical sequence, and will be drawn by the staff for study, the lowest file number first. In order that those applications which are entitled to be grouped for processing may be fixed prior to the time processing of the earliest filed application is begun, the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing reserved band applications that have been accepted for filing and announcing a date (not less than 30 days after publication) on which the listed applications will be considered available and ready for processing and by which all mutually exclusive applications and/or petitions to deny the listed applications must be filed.

(3) Applications for reserved band FM translator stations will be processed using filing window procedures. The FCC will specify by Public Notice, a period for filing reserved band FM translator applications for a new station or for major modifications in the facilities of an authorized station. FM translator applications for new facilities or for major modifications will be accepted only during these specified periods. Applications submitted prior to the window opening date identified in the Public Notice will be returned as premature. Applications submitted after the specified deadline will be dismissed with prejudice as untimely.
