
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart L - FM Broadcast Translator Stations and FM Broadcast Booster Stations
###### § 74.1237 Antenna location.

(a) An applicant for a new station to be authorized under this subpart or for a change in the facilities of such a station shall endeavor to select a site which will provide a line-of-sight transmission path to the entire area intended to be served and at which there is available a suitable signal from the primary station. The transmitting antenna should be placed above growing vegetation and trees lying in the direction of the area intended to be served, to minimize the possiblity of signal absorption by foliage.

(b) Consideration should be given to accessibility of the site at all seasons of the year and to the availability of facilities for the maintenance and operation of the FM translator.

(c) Consideration should be given to the existence of strong radiofrequency fields from other transmitters at the translator site and the possibility that such fields may result in the retransmission of signals originating on frequencies other than that of the primary station.

(d) The transmitting antenna of an FM booster station shall be located within the protected contour of its primary station, subject to Note, § 74.1231 (h). The transmitting antenna of a commonly owned commercial FM translator station shall be located within the protected contour of its commercial primary FM station.

(e) Where an FM translator or booster licensee or permittee proposes to mount its antenna on or near an AM tower, as defined in § 1.30002, the FM translator or booster licensee or permittee must comply with § 1.30003 or § 1.30002.
