
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### § 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### 2

() For changes in external costs incurred between the earlier of initial date of regulation of any tier or February 28, 1994, and March 31, 1994, to the extent changes in such costs are not already reflected in the system's March 31, 1994 rate. The transition rate on May 15, 1994 for a system whose March 31, 1994 adjusted rate is above its March 31, 1994 benchmark rate, but whose March 31, 1994 full reduction rate is below its March 31, 1994 benchmark rate, is the March 31, 1994 benchmark rate, adjusted to establish permitted rates for equipment as required by § 76.923 if such rates have not already been established.

(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the transition rate for a tier shall be adjusted to reflect any determination by a local franchising authority and/or the Commission that the rate in effect on March 31, 1994 was higher (or lower) than that permitted under applicable Commission regulations. A filing reflecting the adjusted rate shall be submitted to all relevant authorities within 30 days after issuance of the local franchising authority and/or Commission determination. A system whose March 31, 1994 rate is determined by a local franchising authority or the Commission to be too high under the Commission's rate regulations in effect before May 15, 1994 will be subject to any refund liability that may accrue under those rules. In addition, the system will be liable for refund liability under the rules in effect on and after May 15, 1994. Such refund liability will be measured by the difference in the system's March 31, 1994 rate and its permitted March 31, 1994 rate as calculated under the Commission's rate regulations in effect before May 15, 1994. The refund liability will accrue according to the time periods set forth in §§ 76.942, and 76.961 of the Commission's rules.
