
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Implementation and notification.

(iii)An eligible small system that elects to use the streamlined rate reduction process must implement the required rate reductions and provide written notice of such reductions to subscribers, the local franchising authority and the Commission according to the following schedule:

(A) Where the franchising authority has been certified by the Commission to regulate the small system's basic service tier rates as of May 15, 1994, the system must notify the franchising authority and its subscribers in writing that it is electing to set its regulated rates by the streamline rate reduction process. Such notice must be given by June 15, 1994, and must also describe the new rates that will result from the streamlined rate reduction process. Those rates must then be implemented within 30 days after the written notification has been provided to subscribers and the local franchising authority.

(B) Where the franchising authority has not been certified to regulate basic service tier rates by May 15, 1994, the small system must provide the written notice to subscribers and the franchising authority, described in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(A) of this section, within 30 days from the date it receives the initial notice of regulation from the franchising authority. The system must then implement the streamlined rate reductions within 30 days after the written notification has been provided to subscribers and the local franchise authority.

(C) Where the Commission is regulating the small system's basic service tier rates as of May 15, 1994, the system must notify the Commission and its subscribers in writing that it is electing to set its regulated rates by the streamlined rate reduction process. Such notice must be given by June 15, 1994, and must also describe the new rates that will result from the streamlined rate reduction process. Those rates must then be implemented within 30 days after the written notification has been provided to subscribers and the Commission.

(D) Where the Commission begins regulating basic service rates after May 15, 1994, the small system must provide the written notice to subscribers and the Commission, described in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(C) of this section, within 30 days from the date it receives an initial notice of regulation. The system must then implement the streamlined rate reductions within 30 days after the written notification has been provided to subscribers and the Commission.

(E) If a complaint about its cable programming service rates has been filed with the Commission on or before May 15, 1994, the small system must provide the written notice described in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(A) of this section, to subscribers, the local franchising authority and the Commission by June 15, 1994. If a cable programming services complaint is filed against the system after May 15, 1994, the system must provide the required written notice to subscribers, the local franchising authority or the Commission within 30 days after the complaint is filed. The system must then implement the streamlined rate reductions within 30 days after the written notification has been provided.

(F) A small system is required to give written notice of, and to implement, the rates that are produced by the streamlined rate reduction process only once. If a system has already provided notice of, and implemented, the streamlined rate reductions when a given tier becomes subject to regulation, it must report to the relevant regulator (either the franchising authority or the Commission) in writing within 30 days of becoming subject to regulation that it has already provided the required notice and implemented the required rate reductions.
