
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Establishment of initial regulated rates.

(6)(i) Cable systems, other than those eligible for streamlined rate reductions, shall file FCC Forms 1200, 1205, and 1215 for a tier that is regulated on May 15, 1994 by June 15, 1994, or thirty days after the initial date of regulation for the tier. A system that becomes subject to regulation for the first time on or after July 1, 1994 shall also file FCC Form 1210 at the time it files FCC Forms 1200, 1205 and 1215.

(ii) A cable system will not incur refund liability under the Commission's rules governing regulated cable rates on and after May 15, 1994 if:

(A) Between March 31, 1994 and July 14, 1994, the system does not change the rate for, or restructure in any fashion, any program service or equipment offering that is subject to regulation under the 1992 Cable Act; and

(B) The system establishes a permitted rate defined in paragraph (b) of this section by July 14, 1994. The deferral of refund liability permitted by this subsection will terminate if, after March 31, 1994, the system changes any rate for, or restructures, any program service or equipment offering subject to regulation, and in all events will expire on July 14, 1994. Moreover, the deferral of refund liability permitted by this paragraph does not apply to refund liability that occurs because the system's March 31, 1994 rates for program services and equipment subject to regulation are higher than the levels permitted under the Commission's rules in effect before May 15, 1994.

(7) For purposes of this section, the initial date of regulation for the basic service tier shall be the date on which notice is given pursuant to ยง 76.910, that the provision of the basic service tier is subject to regulation. For a cable programming services tier, the initial date of regulation shall be the first date on which a complaint on the appropriate form is filed with the Commission concerning rates charged for the cable programming services tier.

(8) For purposes of this section, rates in effect on the initial date of regulation or on September 30, 1992 shall be the rates charged to subscribers for service received on that date.
