
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Inflation adjustments.

(2)The residual component of a system's permitted charge may be adjusted annually for inflation. The annual inflation adjustment shall be used on inflation occurring from June 30 of the previous year to June 30 of the year in which the inflation adjustment is made, except that the first annual inflation adjustment shall cover inflation from September 30, 1993 until June 30 of the year in which the inflation adjustment is made. The adjustment may be made after September 30, but no later than August 31, of the next calendar year. Adjustments shall be based on changes in the Gross National Product Price Index as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the United States Department of Commerce. Cable systems that establish a transition rate pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section may not begin adjusting rates on account of inflation before April 1, 1995. Between April 1, 1995 and August 31, 1995 cable systems that established a transition rate may adjust their rates to reflect the net of a 5.21% inflation adjustment minus any inflation adjustments they have already received. Low price systems that had their March 31, 1994 rates above the benchmark, but their full reduction rate below the benchmark will be permitted to adjust their rates to reflect the full 5.21% inflation factor unless the rate reduction was less than the inflation adjustment received on an FCC Form 393 for rates established prior to May 15, 1994. If the rate reduction established by a low price system that reduced its rate to the benchmark was less than the inflation adjustment received on an FCC Form 393, the system will be permitted to receive the 5.21% inflation adjustment minus the difference between the rate reduction and the inflation adjustment the system made on its FCC Form 393. Cable systems that established a transition rate may make future inflation adjustments on an annual basis with all other cable operators, no earlier than October 1 of each year and no later than August 31 of the following year to reflect the final GNP-PI through June 30 of the applicable year.
