
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Subsequent permitted charge.

(c)(1) The permitted charge for a tier after May 15, 1994 shall be, at the election of the cable system, either:

(i) A rate determined pursuant to a cost-of-service showing,

(ii) A rate determined by application of the Commission's price cap requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section to a permitted rate determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, or

(iii) A rate determined by application of the Commission's price cap requirements set forth in paragraph (e) of this section to a permitted rate determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The Commission's price cap requirements allow a system to adjust its permitted charges for inflation, changes in the number of regulated channels on tiers, or changes in external costs. After May 15, 1994, adjustments for changes in external costs shall be calculated by subtracting external costs from the system's permitted charge and making changes to that "external cost component" as necessary. The remaining charge, referred to as the "residual component," will be adjusted annually for inflation. Cable systems may adjust their rates by using the price cap rules contained in either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section. In addition, cable systems may further adjust their rates using the methodologies set forth in paragraph (n) of this section.

(3) An operator may switch between the quarterly rate adjustment option contained in paragraph (d) of this section and the annual rate adjustment option contained in paragraph (e) of this section, provided that:

(i) Whenever an operator switches from the current quarterly system to the annual system, the operator may not file a Form 1240 earlier than 90 days after the operator proposed its last rate adjustment on a Form 1210; and

(ii) When an operator changes from the annual system to the quarterly system, the operator may not return to a quarterly adjustment using a Form 1210 until a full quarter after it has filed a true up of its annual rate on a Form 1240 for the preceding filing period.

(4) An operator that does not set its rates pursuant to a cost-of-service filing must use the quarterly rate adjustment methodology pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or annual rate adjustment methodology pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section for both its basic service tier and its cable programming services tier(s).
