
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Annual rate adjustment method,Generally.

(e)-(1)Except as provided for in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii)(C) of this section and Section 76.923(o), operators that elect the annual rate adjustment method may not adjust their rates more than annually to reflect inflation, changes in external costs, changes in the number of regulated channels, and changes in equipment costs. Operators that make rate adjustments using this method must file on the same date a Form 1240 for the purpose of making rate adjustments to reflect inflation, changes in external costs and changes in the number of regulated channels and a Form 1205 for the purpose of adjusting rates for regulated equipment and installation. Operators may choose the annual filing date, but they must notify the franchising authority of their proposed filing date prior to their filing. Franchising authorities or their designees may reject the annual filing date chosen by the operator for good cause. If the franchising authority finds good cause to reject the proposed filing date, the franchising authority and the operator should work together in an effort to reach a mutually acceptable date. If no agreement can be reached, the franchising authority may set the filing date up to 60 days later than the date chosen by the operator. An operator may change its filing date from year-to-year, but except as described in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii)(C) of this section, at least twelve months must pass before the operator can implement its next annual adjustment.
