
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### External costs.

(3)(i) Permitted charges for a tier may be adjusted up to quarterly to reflect changes in external costs experienced by the cable system as defined by paragraph (f) of this section. In all events, a system must adjust its rates annually to reflect any decreases in external costs that have not previously been accounted for in the system's rates. A system must also adjust its rates annually to reflect any changes in external costs, inflation and the number of channels on regulated tiers that occurred during the year if the system wishes to have such changes reflected in its regulated rates. A system that does not adjust its permitted rates annually to account for those changes will not be permitted to increase its rates subsequently to reflect the changes.

(ii) A system must adjust its rates in the next calendar year quarter for any decrease in programming costs that results from the deletion of a channel or channels from a regulated tier.

(iii) Any rate increase made to reflect an increase in external costs must also fully account for all other changes in external costs, inflation and the number of channels on regulated tiers that occurred during the same period. Rate adjustments made to reflect changes in external costs shall be based on any changes in those external costs that occurred from the end of the last quarter for which an adjustment was previously made through the end of the quarter that has most recently closed preceding the filing of the FCC Form 1210 (or FCC Form 1211, where applicable). A system may adjust its rates after the close of a quarter to reflect changes in external costs that occurred during that quarter as soon as it has sufficient information to calculate the rate change.
