
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### External costs.

(ii)(A) Permitted charges for a tier may be adjusted annually to reflect changes in external costs experienced but not yet accounted for by the cable system, as well as for projections in these external costs for the 12-month period on which the filing is based. In order that rates be adjusted for projections in external costs, the operator must demonstrate that such projections are reasonably certain and reasonably quantifiable. Projections involving copyright fees, retransmission consent fees, other programming costs, Commission regulatory fees, and cable specific taxes are presumed to be reasonably certain and reasonably quantifiable. Operators may project for increases in franchise related costs to the extent that they are reasonably certain and reasonably quantifiable, but such changes are not presumed reasonably certain and reasonably quantifiable. Operators may pass through increases in franchise fees pursuant to Section 76.933(g).

(B) In all events, a system must adjust its rates every twelve months to reflect any net decreases in external costs that have not previously been accounted for in the system's rates.

(C) Any rate increase made to reflect increases or projected increases in external costs must also fully account for all other changes and projected changes in external costs, inflation and the number of channels on regulated tiers that occurred or will occur during the same period. Rate adjustments made to reflect changes in external costs shall be based on any changes, plus projections, in those external costs that occurred or will occur in the relevant time periods since the periods used in the operator's most recent previous FCC Form 1240.
