
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Channel adjustments.

(iii)(A) Permitted charges for a tier may be adjusted annually to reflect changes not yet accounted for in the number of regulated channels provided by the cable system, as well as for projected changes in the number of regulated channels for the 12-month period on which the filing is based. In order that rates be adjusted for projected changes to the number of regulated channels, the operator must demonstrate that such projections are reasonably certain and reasonably quantifiable.

(B) An operator may make rate adjustments for the addition of required channels to the basic service tier that are required under federal or local law at any time such additions occur, subject to the filing requirements of Section 76.933(g)(2), regardless of whether such additions occur outside of the annual filing cycle. Required channels may include must-carry, local origination, public, educational and governmental access and leased access channels. Should the operator elect not to pass through the costs immediately, it may accrue the costs of the additional channels plus interest, as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(C) An operator may make one additional rate adjustment during the year to reflect channel additions to the cable programming services tiers or, where the operator offers only one regulated tier, the basic service tier. Operators may make this additional rate adjustment at any time during the year, subject to the filing requirements of Section 76.933(g)(2), regardless of whether the channel addition occurs outside of the annual filing cycle. Should the operator elect not to pass through the costs immediately, it may accrue the costs of the additional channels plus interest, as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
