
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### External costs.

(f)(1) External costs shall consist of costs in the following categories:

(i) State and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service;

(ii) Franchise fees;

(iii) Costs of complying with franchise requirements, including costs of providing public, educational, and governmental access channels as required by the franchising authority;

(iv) Retransmission consent fees and copyright fees incurred for the carriage of broadcast signals;

(v) Other programming costs; and

(vi) Commission cable television system regulatory fees imposed pursuant to 47 U.S.C. ยง 159.

(vii) Headend equipment costs necessary for the carriage of digital broadcast signals.

(2) The permitted charge for a regulated tier shall be adjusted on account of programming costs, copyright fees and retransmission consent fees only for the program channels or broadcast signals offered on that tier.

(3) The permitted charge shall not be adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees incurred prior to October 6, 1994.

(4) The starting date for adjustments on account of external costs for a tier of regulated programming service shall be the earlier of the initial date of regulation for any basic or cable service tier or February 28, 1994. Except, for regulated FCC Form 1200 rates set on the basis of rates at September 30, 1992 (using either March 31, 1994 rates initially determined from FCC Form 393 Worksheet 2 or using Form 1200 Full Reduction Rates from Line J6), the starting date shall be September 30, 1992. Operators in this latter group may make adjustment for changes in external costs for the period between September 30, 1992, and the initial date of regulation or February 28, 1994, whichever is applicable, based either on changes in the GNP-PI over that period or on the actual change in the external costs over that period. Thereafter, adjustment for external costs may be made on the basis of actual changes in external costs only.

(5) Changes in franchise fees shall not result in an adjustment to permitted charges, but rather shall be calculated separately as part of the maximum monthly charge per subscriber for a tier of regulated programming service.

(6) Adjustments to permitted charges to reflect changes in the costs of programming purchased from affiliated programmers, as defined in ยง 76.901, shall be permitted as long as the price charged to the affiliated system reflects either prevailing company prices offered in the marketplace to third parties (where the affiliated program supplier has established such prices) or the fair market value of the programming.

(i) For purposes of this section, entities are affiliated if either entity has an attributable interest in the other or if a third party has an attributable interest in both entities.

(ii) Attributable interest shall be defined by reference to the criteria set forth in Notes 1 through 5 to ยง 76.501 provided, however, that:

(A) The limited partner and LLC/LLP/RLLP insulation provisions of Note 2(f) shall not apply; and

(B) The provisions of Note 2(a) regarding five (5) percent interests shall include all voting or nonvoting stock or limited partnership equity interests of five (5) percent or more.

(7) Adjustments to permitted charges on account of increases in costs of programming shall be further adjusted to reflect any revenues received by the operator from the programmer. Such adjustments shall apply on a channel-by-channel basis.

(8) In calculating programming expense, operators may add a mark-up of 7.5% for increases in programming costs occurring after March 31, 1994, except that operators may not file for or take the 7.5% mark-up on programming costs for new channels added on or after May 15, 1994 for which the operator has used the methodology set forth in paragraph (g)(3) of this section for adjusting rates for channels added to cable programming service tiers. Operators shall reduce rates by decreases in programming expense plus an additional 7.5% for decreases occurring after May 15, 1994 except with respect to programming cost decreases on channels added after May 15, 1994 for which the rate adjustment methodology in paragraph (g)(3) of this section was used.
