
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Per channel adjustment.

(ii)Operators may increase rates by a per channel adjustment of up to 20 cents per subscriber per month, exclusive of programming costs, for each channel added to a CPST between May 15, 1994, and December 31, 1997, except that an operator may take the per channel adjustment only for channel additions that result in an increase in the highest number of channels offered on all CPSTs as compared to May 14, 1994, and each date thereafter. Any revenues received from a programmer, or shared by a programmer and an operator in connection with the addition of a channel to a CPST shall first be deducted from programming costs for that channel pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(x) of this section and then, to the extent revenues received from the programmer are greater than the programming costs, shall be deducted from the per channel adjustment. This deduction will apply on a channel by channel basis. With respect to the per channel adjustment only, this deduction shall not apply to revenues received by an operator from a programmer as commissions on sales of products or services offered through home shopping services.

(iii) If an operator has underestimated its cost changes and elects not to recover these accrued costs with interest on the date the operator is entitled to make its annual rate adjustment, the interest will cease to accrue as of the date the operator is entitled to make the annual rate adjustment, but the operator will not lose its ability to recover such costs and interest. An operator may recover accrued costs between the date such costs are incurred and the date the operator actually implements its rate adjustment.

(iv) Operators that use the annual methodology in their next filing after the release date of this Order may accrue costs and interest incurred since July 1, 1995 in that filing. Operators that file a Form 1210 in their next filing after the release date of this Order, and elect to use Form 1240 in a subsequent filing, may accrue costs incurred since the end of the last quarter to which a Form 1210 applies.
