
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Changes in the number of channels on regulated tiers,Generally.

(g)-(1)A system may adjust the residual component of its permitted rate for a tier to reflect changes in the number of channels offered on the tier on a quarterly basis. Cable systems shall use FCC Form 1210 (or FCC Form 1211, where applicable) or FCC Form 1240 to justify rate changes made on account of changes in the number of channels on a basic service tier ("BST") or a cable programming service tier ("CPST"). Such rate adjustments shall be based on any changes in the number of regulated channels that occurred from the end of the last quarter for which an adjustment was previously made through the end of the quarter that has most recently closed preceding the filing of the FCC Form 1210 (or FCC Form 1211, where applicable) or FCC Form 1240. However, when a system deletes channels in a calendar quarter, the system must adjust the residual component of the tier charge in the next calendar quarter to reflect that deletion. Operators must elect between the channel addition rules in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section the first time they adjust rates after December 31, 1994, to reflect a channel addition to a CPST that occurred on or after May 15, 1994, and must use the elected methodology for all rate adjustments through December 31, 1997. A system that adjusted rates after May 15, 1994, but before January 1, 1995 on account of a change in the number of channels on a CPST that occurred after May 15, 1994, may elect to revise its rates to charge the rates permitted by paragraph (g)(3) of this section on or after January 1, 1995, but is not required to do so as a condition for using the methodology in paragraph (g)(3) of this section for rate adjustments after January 1, 1995. Rates for the BST will be governed exclusively by paragraph (g)(2) of this section, except that where a system offered only one tier on May 14, 1994, the cable operator will be allowed to elect between paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section as if the tier was a CPST.
