
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.922 Rates for the basic service tier and cable programming services tiers.
####### Cost of service charge.

(i)(1) For purposes of this section, a monthly cost-of-service charge for a basic service tier or a cable programming service tier is an amount equal to the annual revenue requirement for that tier divided by a number that is equal to 12 times the average number of subscribers to that tier during the test year, except that a monthly charge for a system or tier in service less than one year shall be equal to the projected annual revenue requirement for the first 12 months of operation or service divided by a number that is equal to 12 times the projected average number of subscribers during the first 12 months of operation or service. The calculation of the average number of subscribers shall include all subscribers, regardless of whether they receive service at full rates or at discounts.

(2) A test year for an initial regulated charge is the cable operator's fiscal year preceding the initial date of regulation. A test year for a change in the basic service charge that is after the initial date of regulation is the cable operator's fiscal year preceding the mailing or other delivery of written notice pursuant to Section 76.932. A test year for a change in a cable programming service charge after the initial date of regulation is the cable operator's fiscal year preceding the filing of a complaint regarding the increase.

(3) The annual revenue requirement for a tier is the sum of the return component and the expense component for that tier.

(4) The return component for a tier is the average allowable test year ratebase allocable to the tier adjusted for known and measurable changes occurring between the end of the test year and the effective date of the rate multiplied by the rate of return specified by the Commission or franchising authority.

(5) The expense component for a tier is the sum of allowable test year expenses allocable to the tier adjusted for known and measurable changes occurring between the end of the test year and the effective date of the rate.

(6) The ratebase may include the following:

(i) Prudent investment by a cable operator in tangible plant that is used and useful in the provision of regulated cable services less accumulated depreciation. Tangible plant in service shall be valued at the actual money cost (or the money value of any consideration other than money) at the time it was first used to provide cable service, except that in the case of systems purchased before May 15, 1994 shall be presumed to equal 66% of the total purchase price allocable to assets (including tangible and intangible assets) used to provide regulated services. The 66% allowance shall not be used to justify any rate increase taken after the effective date of this rule. The actual money cost of plant may include an allowance for funds used during construction at the prime rate or the operator's actual cost of funds during construction. Cost overruns are presumed to be imprudent investment in the absence of a showing that the overrun occurred through no fault of the operator.

(ii) An allowance for start-up losses including depreciation, amortization and interest expenses related to assets that are included in the ratebase. Capitalized start-up losses, may include cumulative net losses, plus any unrecovered interest expenses connected to funding the regulated ratebase, amortized over the unexpired life of the franchise, commencing with the end of the loss accumulation phase. However, losses attributable to accelerated depreciation methodologies are not permitted.

(iii) An allowance for start-up losses, if any, that is equal to the lesser of the first two years of operating costs or accumulated losses incurred until the system reached the end of its prematurity stage as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board Standard 51 ("FASB 51") less straight-line amortization over a reasonable period not exceeding 15 years that commences at the end of the prematurity phase of operation.

(iv) Intangible assets less amortization that reflect the original costs prudently incurred by a cable operator in organizing and incorporating a company that provides regulated cable services, obtaining a government franchise to provide regulated cable services, or obtaining patents that are used and useful in the provision of cable services.

(v) The cost of customer lists if such costs were capitalized during the prematurity phase of operations less amortization.

(vi) An amount for working capital to the extent that an allowance or disallowance for funds needed to sustain the ongoing operations of the regulated cable service is demonstrated.

(vii) Other intangible assets to the extent the cable operator demonstrates that the asset reflects costs incurred in an activity or transaction that produced concrete benefits or savings for subscribers to regulated cable services that would not have been realized otherwise and the cable operator demonstrates that a return on such an asset does not exceed the value of such a subscriber benefit.

(viii) The portion of the capacity of plant not currently in service that will be placed in service within twelve months of the end of the test year.

(7) Deferred income taxes accrued after the date upon which the operator became subject to regulation shall be deducted from items included in the ratebase.

(8) Allowable expenses may include the following:

(i) All regular expenses normally incurred by a cable operator in the provision of regulated cable service, but not including any lobbying expense, charitable contributions, penalties and fines paid on account of violations of statutes or rules, or membership fees in social, service, recreational or athletic clubs or organizations.

(ii) Reasonable depreciation expense attributable to tangible assets allowable in the ratebase.

(iii) Reasonable amortization expense for prematurely abandoned tangible assets formerly includable in the ratebase that are amortized over the remainder of the original expected life of the asset.

(iv) Reasonable amortization expense for start-up losses and capitalized intangible assets that are includable in ratebase.

(v) Taxes other than income taxes attributable to the provision of regulated cable services.

(vi) An income tax allowance.
