
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.923 Rates for equipment and installation used to receive the basic service tier.
####### Company-wide averaging of equipment costs.

(l)For the purpose of developing unbundled equipment charges as required by paragraph (b) of this section, a cable operator may average the equipment costs of its small systems at any level, or several levels, within its operations. This company-wide averaging applies only to an operator's small systems as defined in ยง 76.901(c); is permitted only for equipment charges, not installation charges; and may be established only for similar types of equipment. When submitting its equipment costs based on average charges to the local franchising authority or the Commission, an operator that elects company-wide averaging of equipment costs must provide a general description of the averaging methodology employed and a justification that its averaging methodology produces reasonable equipment rates. The local authority or the Commission may require the operator to set equipment rates based on the operator's level of averaging in effect on April 3, 1993, as required by ยง 76.924(d).

(m) Cable operators shall set charges for equipment and installations to recover Equipment Basket costs. Such charges shall be set, consistent with the level at which Equipment Basket costs are aggregated as provided in ยง 76.923(c). Cable operators shall maintain adequate documentation to demonstrate that charges for the sale and lease of equipment and for installations have been developed in accordance with the rules set forth in this section.
