
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.924 Allocation to service cost categories.
####### Cost allocation requirements.

(f)(1) Allocations of investments, expenses and revenues among the service cost categories and the equipment basket shall be made at the organizational level in which such costs and revenues have been identified for accounting purposes pursuant to ยง 76.924(c).

(2) Costs of programming and retransmission consent fees shall be directly assigned or allocated only to the service cost category in which the programming or broadcast signal at issue is offered.

(3) Costs of franchise fees shall be allocated among the equipment basket and the service cost categories in a manner that is most consistent with the methodology of assessment of franchise fees by local authorities.

(4) Costs of public, educational, and governmental access channels carried on the basic tier shall be directly assigned to the basic tier where possible.

(5) Commission cable television system regulatory fees imposed pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 159 shall be directly assigned to the basic service tier.

(6) All other costs that are incurred exclusively to support the equipment basket or a specific service cost category shall be directly assigned to that service cost category or the equipment basket where possible.

(7) Costs that are not directly assigned shall be allocated to the service cost categories in accordance with the following allocation procedures:

(i) Wherever possible, common costs for which no allocator has been specified by the Commission are to be allocated among the service cost categories and the equipment basket based on direct analysis of the origin of the costs.

(ii) Where allocation based on direct analysis is not possible, common costs for which no allocator has been specified by the Commission shall, if possible, be allocated among the service costs categories and the equipment basket based on indirect, cost-causative linkage to other costs directly assigned or allocated to the service cost categories and the equipment basket.

(iii) Where neither direct nor indirect measures of cost allocation can be found, common costs shall be allocated to each service cost category based on the ratio of all other costs directly assigned and attributed to a service cost category over total costs directly or indirectly assigned and directly or indirectly attributable.
