
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart N - Cable Rate Regulation
###### ยง 76.924 Allocation to service cost categories.
####### Transactions and affiliates.

(i)Adjustments on account of external costs and rates set on a cost-of-service basis shall exclude any amounts not calculated in accordance with the following:

(1) Charges for assets purchased by or transferred to the regulated activity of a cable operator from affiliates shall equal the invoice price if that price is determined by a prevailing company price. The invoice price is the prevailing company price if the affiliate has sold a substantial number of like assets to nonaffiliates. If a prevailing company price for the assets received by the regulated activity is not available, the changes for such assets shall be the lower of their cost to the originating activity of the affiliated group less all applicable valuation reserves, or their fair market value.

(2) The proceeds from assets sold or transferred from the regulated activity of the cable operator to affiliates shall equal the prevailing company price if the cable operator has sold a substantial number of like assets to nonaffiliates. If a prevailing company price is not available, the proceeds from such sales shall be determined at the higher of cost less all applicable valuation reserves, or estimated fair market value of the asset.

(3) Charges for services provided to the regulated activity of a cable operator by an affiliate shall equal the invoice price if that price is determined by a prevailing company price. The invoice price is the prevailing company price if the affiliate has sold like services to a substantial number of nonaffiliates. If a prevailing company price for the services received by the regulated activity is not available, the charges of such services shall be at cost.

(4) The proceeds from services sold or transferred from the regulated activity of the cable operator to affiliates shall equal the prevailing company price if the cable operator has sold like services to a substantial number of nonaffiliates. If a prevailing company price is not available, the proceeds from such sales shall be determined at cost.

(5) For purposes of ยง 76.924(i)(1) through 76.924(i)(4), costs shall be determined in accordance with the standards and procedures specified in ยง 76.922 and paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.

(6) For purposes of this section, entities are affiliated if either entity has an attributable interest in the other or if a third party has an attributable interest in both entities.

(7) Attributable interest shall be defined by reference to the criteria set forth in Notes 1 through 5 to ยง 76.501 provided, however, that:

(i) The limited partner and LLC/LLP/RLLP insulation provisions of Note 2(f) shall not apply; and

(ii) The provisions of Note 2(a) regarding five (5) percent interests shall include all voting or nonvoting stock or limited partnership equity interests of five (5) percent or more.
