
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart L - Random Selection Procedures for Mass Media Services
###### General Procedures
####### § 1.1623 Probability calculation.

(a) All calculations shall be computed to no less than three significant digits. Probabilities will be truncated to the number of significant digits used in a particular lottery.

(b) Divide the total number of applicants into 1.00 to determine pre-preference probabilities.

(c) Multiply each applicant's pre-preference probability by the applicable preference from § 1.1622 (b)(2) or (b)(3).

(d) Divide each applicant's probability pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section by the sum of such probabilities to determine intermediate probabilities.

(e) Add the intermediate probabilities of all applicants who received a preference pursuant to § 1.1622 (b)(2) or (b)(3).

(f)(1) If the sum pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section is .40 or greater, proceed to paragraph (g) of this section.

(2) If the sum pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section is less than .40, then multiply each such intermediate probability by the ratio of .40 to such sum. Divide .60 by the number of applicants who did not receive a preference pursuant to § 1.1622 (b)(2) or (b)(3) to determine their new intermediate probabilities.

(g) Multiply each applicant's probability pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section by the applicable preference ratio from § 1.1622(b)(1).

(h) Divide each applicant's probability pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section by the sum of such probabilities to determine the final selection percentage.
