
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart Q - Regulation of Carriage Agreements
###### § 76.1302 Carriage agreement proceedings.
####### Remedies for violations-,Remedies authorized.

(j)(1)Upon completion of such adjudicatory proceeding, the Commission, Commission staff, or Administrative Law Judge shall order appropriate remedies, including, if necessary, mandatory carriage of a video programming vendor's programming on defendant's video distribution system, or the establishment of prices, terms, and conditions for the carriage of a video programming vendor's programming. Such order shall set forth a timetable for compliance. The effective date of such order issued by the Administrative Law Judge is set forth in § 1.276(d) of this chapter. Such order issued by the Commission or Commission staff shall become effective upon release, see §§ 1.102(b) and 1.103 of this chapter, unless any order of mandatory carriage issued by the staff would require the defendant multichannel video programming distributor to delete existing programming from its system to accommodate carriage of a video programming vendor's programming. In such instances, if the defendant seeks review of the staff decision, the order for carriage of a video programming vendor's programming will not become effective unless and until the decision of the staff is upheld by the Commission. If the Commission upholds the remedy ordered by the staff or Administrative Law Judge in its entirety, the defendant MVPD will be required to carry the video programming vendor's programming for an additional period equal to the time elapsed between the staff or Administrative Law Judge decision and the Commission's ruling, on the terms and conditions approved by the Commission.
