
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart S - Open Video Systems
###### ยง 76.1502 Certification.
####### OVS@fcc.gov

(d)(1) All open video system certification applications, including FCC Form 1275 and all attachments, must be filed via electronic mail (email) at the following address:. The subject line shall read "Open Video System Certification Application." Open video system certification applications will not be considered properly filed unless filed as described in this paragraph (d).

(2) On or before the date an FCC Form 1275 is filed with the Commission, the applicant must serve a copy of its filing on all local communities identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section and must include a statement informing the local communities of the Commission's requirements in paragraph (e) of this section for filing oppositions and comments. Service by mail is complete upon mailing, but if mailed, the served documents must be postmarked at least 3 days prior to the filing of the FCC Form 1275 with the Commission.

(e)(1) Comments or oppositions to a certification must be filed within five calendar days of the Commission's receipt of the certification and must be served on the party that filed the certification. If, after making the necessary calculations, the due date for filing comments falls on a holiday, comments shall be filed on the next business day before noon, unless the nearest business day precedes the fifth calendar day following a filing, in which case the comments will be due on the preceding business day. For example, if the fifth day falls on a Saturday, then the filing would be due on that preceding Friday. However, if the fifth day falls on Sunday, then the filing will be due on the next day, Monday, before noon (or Tuesday, before noon if the Monday is a holiday).
