
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 76 - MULTICHANNEL VIDEO AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
##### Subpart S - Open Video Systems
###### ยง 76.1506 Carriage of television broadcast signals.
####### Retransmission consent.

(l)Section 76.64 shall apply to open video systems in accordance with the provisions contained in this paragraph.

(1) Any provision of ยง 76.64 that refers to a "cable system" shall apply to an open video system. Any provision of ยง 76.64 that refers to a "cable operator" shall apply to an open video system operator.

(2) Must-carry/retransmission consent election notifications shall be sent to the open video system operator. An open video system operator shall make all must-carry/retransmission consent election notifications received available to the appropriate programming providers on its system.

(3) Television broadcast stations are required to make the same election for open video systems and cable systems serving the same geographic area, unless the overlapping open video system is unable to deliver appropriate signals in conformance with the broadcast station's elections for all cable systems serving the same geographic area.

(4) An open video system commencing new operations shall notify all local commercial and noncommercial broadcast stations as required under paragraph (l) of this section on or before the date on which it files with the Commission its Notice of Intent to establish an open video system.
