
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 78 - CABLE TELEVISION RELAY SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### ยง 78.19 Interference.
####### prcz@naic.edu.

(2) Any applicant for a new permanent base or fixed station authorization to be located on the islands of Puerto Rico, Desecheo, Mona, Vieques, and Culebra, or for a modification of an existing authorization which would change the frequency, power, antenna height, directivity, or location of a station on these islands and would increase the likelihood of the authorized facility causing interference, shall notify the Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory, HC3 Box 53995, Arecibo, Puerto Rico 00612, in writing or electronically, of the technical parameters of the proposal. Applicants may wish to consult interference guidelines, which will be provided by Cornell University. Applicants who choose to transmit information electronically should e-mail to:

(i) The notification to the Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory shall be made prior to, or simultaneously with, the filing of the application with the Commission. The notification shall state the geographical coordinates of the transmit antenna (NAD-83 datum), antenna height above ground, ground elevation at the antenna, antenna directivity and gain, proposed frequency and FCC Rule Part, type of emission, effective isotropic radiated power, and whether the proposed use is itinerant. Generally, submission of the information in the technical portion of the FCC license application is adequate notification. In addition, the applicant shall indicate in its application to the Commission the date notification was made to the Arecibo Observatory.

(ii) After receipt of such applications, the Commission will allow the Arecibo Observatory a period of 20 days for comments or objections in response to the notification indicated. The applicant will be required to make reasonable efforts in order to resolve or mitigate any potential interference problem with the Arecibo Observatory and to file either an amendment to the application or a modification application, as appropriate. If the Commission determines that an applicant has satisfied its responsibility to make reasonable efforts to protect the Observatory from interference, its application may be granted.

(iii) The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to operations that transmit on frequencies above 15 GHz.

(d) Protection for Table Mountain Radio Receiving Zone, Boulder County, Colorado: Applicants for a station authorization to operate in the vicinity of Boulder County, Colorado under this part are advised to give due consideration, prior to filing applications, to the need to protect the Table Mountain Radio Receiving Zone from harmful interference. These are the research laboratories of the Department of Commerce, Boulder County, Colorado. To prevent degradation of the present ambient radio signal level at the site, the Department of Commerce seeks to ensure that the field strengths of any radiated signals (excluding reflected signals) received on this 1800 acre site (in the vicinity of coordinates 40&#xB0;07&#x2032;50&#x2033; N Latitude, 105&#xB0;14&#x2032;40&#x2033; W Longitude) resulting from new assignments (other than mobile stations) or from the modification or relocation of existing facilities do not exceed the following values:

(1) Advance consultation is recomended particularly for those applicants who have no reliable data which indicates whether the field strength or power flux density figures in the above table would be exceeded by their proposed radio facilities (except mobile stations). In such instances, the following is a suggested guide for determining whether coordination is recommended:

(i) All stations within 2.4 km (1.5 statute miles);

(ii) Stations within 4.8 km (3 statute miles) with 50 watts or more effective radiated power (ERP) in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Table Mountain Radio Receiving Zone;

(iii) Stations within 16 km (10 statute miles) with 1 kW or more ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Table Mountain Radio Receiving Zone;

(iv) Stations within 80 km (50 statute miles) with 25 kW or more ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Table Mountain Radio Receiving Zone.

(2) Applicants concerned are urged to communicate with the Radio Frequency Management Coordinator, Department of Commerce, Research Support Services, NOAA R/E5X2, Boulder Laboratories, Boulder, CO 80303; telephone (303) 497-6548, in advance of filing their applications with the Commission.

(3) The Commission will not screen applications to determine whether advance consultation has taken place. However, applicants are advised that such consultation can avoid objections from the Department of Commerce or proceedings to modify any authorization which may be granted which, in fact, delivers a signal at the site in excess of the field strength specified herein.

(e) Protection for Federal Communications Commission monitoring stations:
