
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 78 - CABLE TELEVISION RELAY SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### § 78.18 Frequency assignments.

(a) The Cable Television Relay Service is assigned the band of frequencies from 12.70 to 13.20 GHz. This band is shared with the Fixed-Satellite Service (earth-to-space) from 12.70 to 12.75 GHz and Television Auxiliary Broadcast Stations from 12.70 to 13.20 GHz. The following channels may be assigned to CARS stations for the propagation of radio waves with the indicated polarization:

(1) For CARS stations using FM transmission:

(2) CARS stations using vestigal sideband AM transmission and FM transmission requiring a necessary bandwidth of no more than 6 MHz.

(3) For CARS stations using AM and FM transmission requiring a necessary bandwidth of no more than 12.5 MHz.

(4) The Cable Television Relay Service is also assigned the following frequencies in the 17,700-19,700 MHz band. These frequencies are co-equally shared with stations in other services under parts 25, 74, and 101 of this chapter. Cable Television Relay Service stations operating on frequencies in the sub-bands 18.3-18.58 GHz and 19.26-19.3 GHz that were licensed or had applications pending before the Commission as of September 18, 1998 may continue those operations on a shared co-primary basis with other services under parts 25, 74, and 101 of this chapter. Such stations, however, are subject to relocation by licensees in the fixed-satellite service. Such relocation is subject to the provisions of §§ 101.85 through 101.97 of this chapter. No new applications for part 78 licenses will be accepted in the 19.26-19.3 GHz band after June 8, 2000, and no new applications for part 78 licenses will be accepted in the 18.3-18.58 GHz band after November 19, 2002.

(i) 2 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channel:

(ii) 6 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(iii) 10 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(iv) 20 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(v) 40 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(vi) 80 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:
