
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 78 - CABLE TELEVISION RELAY SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### ยง 78.19 Interference.
####### Radio Astronomy and Radio Research Installations.

(c)(1)In order to minimize harmful interference at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory site located at Green Bank, Pocahontas County, W. Va., and at the Naval Radio Research Observatory at Sugar Grove, Pendleton County, W.Va., an applicant for authority to construct a CARS station, except a CARS pickup station, or for authority to make changes in the frequency, power, antenna height, or antenna directivity of an existing station within the area bounded by 39&#xB0;15&#x2032; N. on the north, 78&#xB0;30&#x2032; W. on the east, 37&#xB0;30&#x2032; N. on the south and 80&#xB0;30&#x2032; W. on the west shall, at the time of filing such application with the Commission, simultaneously notify the Director, National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Post Office Box No. 2, Green Bank, WV 24944, in writing, of the technical particulars of the proposed station. Such notification shall include the geographical coordinates of the antenna, antenna height, antenna directivity if any, proposed frequency, type of emission, and power. In addition, the applicant shall indicate in his application to the Commission the date notification was made to the Observatory. After receipt of such application, the Commission will allow a period of 20 days for comments or objections in response to the notifications indicated. If an objection to the proposed operation is received during the 20-day period from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory for itself or on behalf of the Naval Radio Research Observatory, the Commission will consider all aspects of the problem and take whatever action is deemed appropriate.
