
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 78 - CABLE TELEVISION RELAY SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### ยง 78.19 Interference.
####### greater than 10 mV/m

(1) Applicants in the vicinity of an FCC monitoring station for a radio station authorization to operate new transmitting facilities or changed transmitting facilities which would increase the field strength produced over the monitoring station over that previously authorized are advised to give consideration, prior to filing applications, to the possible need to protect the FCC stations from harmful interference. Geographical coordinates of the facilities which require protection are listed in ยง 0.121(c) of the Commission's Rules. Applications for stations (except mobile stations) which will produce on any frequency a direct wave fundamental field strength ofin the authorized bandwidth of service (-65.8 dBW/mpower flux density assuming a free space characteristic impedance of 120 ohms) at the referenced coordinates, may be examined to determine extent of possible interference. Depending on the theoretical field strength value and existing root-sum-square or other ambient radio field signal levels at the indicated coordinates, a clause protecting the monitoring station may be added to the station authorization.

(2) In the event that calculated value of expected field exceeds 10 mV/m (-65.8 dBW/m2) at the reference coordinates, or if there is any question whether field strength levels might exceed the threshold value, advance consultation with the FCC to discuss any protection necessary should be considered. Prospective applicants may communicate with the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554.

(3) Advance consultation is suggested particularly for those applicants who have no reliable data which indicates whether the field strength or power flux density figure indicated would be exceeded by their proposed radio facilities (except mobile stations). In such instances, the following is a suggested guide for determining whether an applicant should coordinate:

(i) All stations within 2.4 kilometers (1.5 statute miles);

(ii) Stations within 4.8 kilometers (3 statute miles) with 50 watts or more average effective radiated power (ERP) in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Stations.

(iii) Stations within 16 kilometers (10 statute miles) with 1 kW or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station;

(iv) Stations within 80 kilometers (50 statute miles) with 25 kW or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station;

(4) Advance coordination for stations operating above 1000 MHz is recommended only where the proposed station is in the vicinity of a monitoring station designated as a satellite monitoring facility in section 0.121(c) of the Commission's Rules and also meets the criteria outlined in paragraphs (f) (2) and (3) of this section.

(5) The Commission will not screen applications to determine whether advance consultation has taken place. However, applicants are advised that such consultation can avoid objections from the Federal Communications Commission or modification of any authorization which will cause harmful interference.
