
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 79 - ACCESSIBILITY OF VIDEO PROGRAMMING
##### Subpart A - Video Programming Owners, Providers, and Distributors
###### ยง 79.1 Closed captioning of televised video programming.
####### Providing contact information to the Commission.,CLOSEDCAPTIONING_POC@fcc.gov.

(3)(i) Prior to the compliance date of paragraph (m) of this section, video programming distributors shall file the contact information described in this section with the Commission in one of the following ways: through a web form located on the FCC website; with the Chief of the Disability Rights Office, Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau; or by sending an email toContact information shall be available to consumers on the FCC website or by telephone inquiry to the Commission's Consumer Center. Distributors shall notify the Commission each time there is a change in any of this required information within 10 business days.

(ii) As of the compliance date of paragraph (m) of this section, video programming distributors and video programmers shall file contact information with the Commission through a web form located on the Commission's website. Such contact information shall include the name of a person with primary responsibility for captioning issues and ensuring compliance with the Commission's rules. In addition, such contact information shall include the person's title or office, telephone number, fax number (if the video programming distributor or video programmer has a fax number), postal mailing address, and email address. Contact information shall be available to consumers on the Commission's website or by telephone inquiry to the Commission's Consumer Center. Video programming distributors and video programmers shall notify the Commission each time there is a change in any of this required information within ten (10) business days.
