
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 79 - ACCESSIBILITY OF VIDEO PROGRAMMING
##### Subpart A - Video Programming Owners, Providers, and Distributors
###### ยง 79.1 Closed captioning of televised video programming.
####### Captioning quality obligation; standards.

(j)(1)(i) Prior to the compliance date of paragraph (m) of this section, a video programming distributor shall exercise best efforts to obtain a certification from each video programmer from which the distributor obtains programming stating:

(A) That the video programmer's programming satisfies the caption quality standards of paragraph (j)(2) of this section;

(B) That in the ordinary course of business, the video programmer has adopted and follows the Best Practices set forth in paragraph (k)(1) of this section; or

(C) That the video programmer is exempt from the closed captioning rules under one or more properly attained exemptions.

(ii) For programmers certifying exemption from the closed captioning rules, the video programming distributor must obtain a certification from the programmer that specifies the exact exemption that the programmer is claiming. Video programming distributors may satisfy their best efforts obligation by locating a programmer's certification on the programmer's website or other widely available locations used for the purpose of posting widely available certifications. If a video programming distributor is unable to locate such certification on the programmer's website or other widely available location used for the purpose of posting such certification, the video programming distributor must inform the video programmer in writing that it must make widely available such certification within 30 days after receiving the written request. If a video programmer does not make such certification widely available within 30 days after receiving a written request, the video programming distributor shall promptly submit a report to the Commission identifying such non-certifying video programmer for the purpose of being placed in a publicly available database. A video programming distributor that meets each of the requirements of this paragraph shall not be liable for violations of paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section to the extent that any such violations are outside the control of the video programming distributor. Compliance with this paragraph (j)(1) shall not be required as of the compliance date of paragraph (m) of this section. The Commission will publish a document in theannouncing that compliance date and revising this paragraph accordingly.
