
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 79 - ACCESSIBILITY OF VIDEO PROGRAMMING
##### Subpart B - Apparatus
###### ยง 79.102 Closed caption decoder requirements for digital television receivers and converter boxes.
####### Window text painting.

(g)(1) All decoders should implement "left", "right", and "center" caption-text justification. Implementation of "full" justification is optional. If "full" justification is not implemented, fully justified captions should be treated as though they are "left" justified.

(i) For "left" justification, decoders should display any portion of a received row of text when it is received. For "center", "right", and "full" justification, decoders may display any portion of a received row of text when it is received, or may delay display of a received row of text until reception of a row completion indicator. A row completion indicator is defined as receipt of a CR, ETX or any other command, except SetPenColor, SetPenAttributes, or SetPenLocation where the pen relocation is within the same row.

(ii) Receipt of a character for a displayed row which already contains text with "center", "right" or "full" justification will cause the row to be cleared prior to the display of the newly received character and any subsequent characters. Receipt of a justification command which changes the last received justification for a given window will cause the window to be cleared.

(2) At a minimum, decoders must support LEFT_TO_RIGHT printing.

(3) At a minimum, decoders must support BOTTOM_TO_TOP scrolling. For windows sharing the same horizontal scan lines on the display, scrolling may be disabled.

(4) At a minimum, decoders must support the same recommended practices for scroll rate as is provided for NTSC closed-captioning.

(5) At a minimum, decoders must support the same recommended practices for smooth scrolling as is provided for NTSC closed-captioning.

(6) At a minimum, decoders must implement the "snap" window display effect. If the window "fade" and "wipe" effects are not implemented, then the decoder will "snap" all windows when they are to be displayed, and the "effect speed" parameter is ignored.
