
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 79 - ACCESSIBILITY OF VIDEO PROGRAMMING
##### Subpart B - Apparatus
###### ยง 79.102 Closed caption decoder requirements for digital television receivers and converter boxes.
####### Font styles.

(k)(1) Decoders must support the eight fonts listed below. Caption providers may specify 1 of these 8 font styles to be used to write caption text. The styles specified in the "font style" parameter of the SetPenAttributes command are numbered from 0 through 7. The following is a list of the 8 required font styles. For information purposes only, each font style references one or more popular fonts which embody the characteristics of the style:

(i) 0-Default (undefined)

(ii) 1-Monospaced with serifs (similar to Courier)

(iii) 2-Proportionally spaced with serifs (similar to Times New Roman)

(iv) 3-Monospaced without serifs (similar to Helvetica Monospaced)

(v) 4-Proportionally spaced without serifs (similar to Arial and Swiss)

(vi) 5-Casual font type (similar to Dom and Impress)

(vii) 6-Cursive font type (similar to Coronet and Marigold)

(viii) 7-Small capitals (similar to Engravers Gothic)

(2) Font styles may be implemented in any typeface which the decoder manufacturer deems to be a readable rendition of the font style, and need not be in the exact typefaces given in the example above. Decoders must include the ability for consumers to choose among the eight fonts. The decoder must display the font chosen by the caption provider unless the viewer chooses a different font.
