
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### Office of Economics and Analytics
####### ยง 0.21 Functions of the Office.

The Office of Economics and Analytics advises and makes recommendations to the Commission in the areas of economic and data analysis and data management policy. The Office reviews all Commission actions involving significant economic or data analysis and provides expertise, guidance, and assistance to the Bureaus and other Offices in applying the principles of economic and data analysis. The Office coordinates the Commission's research and development activities relating to economic and data analysis and data management policy. In addition, the Office serves, in close coordination with other relevant Bureaus and Offices, as a principal resource for policy and administrative staff of the Commission with regard to the design, implementation, and administration of auctions. The Office also establishes and implements Commission data management policies in conjunction with the relevant Bureaus and Offices and with the Office of Managing Director and Office of General Counsel. The Office of Economics and Analytics has the following duties and responsibilities:

(a) Identifies and evaluates significant communications policy issues, based on the principles and methods of economics and data analysis.

(b) Collaborates with and advises other Bureaus and Offices in the areas of economic and data analysis and with respect to the analysis of benefits, costs, and regulatory impacts of Commission policies, rules, and proposals.

(c) Prepares a rigorous, economically-grounded cost-benefit analysis for every rulemaking deemed to have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more.

(d) Confirms that the Office of Economics and Analytics has reviewed each Commission rulemaking to ensure it is complete before release to the public.

(e) Reviews and comments on all significant issues of economic and data analysis raised in connection with actions proposed to be taken by the Commission and advises the Commission regarding such issues.

(f) Develops, recommends, and implements data management policies in conjunction with the Office of Managing Director, the Office of General Counsel, and relevant Bureaus and Offices, and collaborates with and advises other Bureaus and Offices with respect to data management and data analysis.

(g) Manages the Commission's economic and data analysis research programs, recommends budget levels and priorities for these programs, and serves as central account manager for all contractual economic and data analysis research studies funded by the Commission.

(h) Conducts economic, statistical, cost-benefit, and other data analysis of the impact of existing and proposed communications policies and operations, including cooperative studies with other staff units and consultant and contract efforts as appropriate.

(i) Coordinates the Commission's evaluation of government (state and federal), academic, and industry-sponsored research affecting Commission policy.

(j) Coordinates with other Bureaus and Offices in making recommendations to the Commission on communications policy issues that involve economic and data analysis, to include cost-benefit analysis; represents the Commission at appropriate discussions and conferences.

(k) Develops and recommends procedures and plans for effective economic and data analysis, to include cost-benefit analysis, within the Commission.

(l) Seeks to ensure that FCC policy encourages and promotes competitive markets by providing Bureaus and Offices with the necessary support to identify, evaluate, and resolve competition issues.

(m) Serves as the Commission's principal policy and administrative staff resource with regard to auction design and implementation issues. Jointly with the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, Media Bureau, Wireline Competition Bureau, and/or other relevant Bureaus and Offices, develops, recommends, and administers policies, programs and rules, and advises the Commission on policy, engineering, and technical matters, concerning auctions of spectrum for wireless telecommunications and broadcast services and uses of competitive bidding to achieve other Commission policy objectives, including universal service support. Administers procurement of auction-related services from outside contractors. Oversees auctions conducted on behalf of the Commission by third parties at the direction of the Commission. Provides policy, administrative, and technical assistance to other Bureaus and Offices on auction issues. Advises and makes recommendations to the Commission, or acts for the Commission under delegated authority, in all matters pertaining to auction implementation. These activities include: Conducting auctions, policy development and coordination; conducting rulemaking and adjudicatory proceedings, including complaint proceedings for matters not within the responsibility of the Enforcement Bureau; acting on waivers of rules; compliance and enforcement activities for matters not within the responsibility of the Enforcement Bureau; determining resource impacts of existing, planned or recommended Commission activities concerning auctions, and developing and recommending resource deployment priorities. Exercises such authority as may be assigned, delegated, or referred to it by the Commission.

(n) With respect to applicable data and reporting duties assigned to the Office, coordinates with the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau and other relevant Bureaus and Offices on all matters affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, disaster management, and related issues.

(o) With respect to applicable data and reporting duties assigned to the Office, and in coordination with the Wireline Competition Bureau and the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, provides federal staff support for the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service and the Federal-State Joint Board on Jurisdictional Separations.

(p) In coordination with other relevant Bureaus and Offices, provides economic, financial, and technical analyses of communications markets and provider performance.
