
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart N - Enforcement of Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability In Programs or Activities Conducted By the Federal Communications Commission
###### § 1.1870 Compliance procedures.
####### Acceptance of complaint.

(d)(1) The Commission shall accept and investigate all complete complaints, as defined in § 1.1803 of this part, for which it has jurisdiction. All such complaints must be filed within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Commission may extend this time period for good cause.

(2) If the Commission receives a complaint that is not complete as defined in § 1.1803 of this part, the complainant will be notified within thirty (30) days of receipt of the incomplete complaint that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint within thirty (30) days of receipt of this notice, the Commission shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(e) If the Commission receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Commission shall notify the United States Access Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4151-4157, is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.

(g) Within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the receipt of a complete complaint, as defined in § 1.1803, for which it has jurisdiction, the Commission shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within ninety (90) days of receipt from the Commission of the letter required by § 1.1870(g). The Commission may extend this time for good cause.
