
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### General
####### ยง 80.5 Definitions.
######## Distress signal.

The distress signal is a digital selective call using an internationally recognized distress call format in the bands used for terrestrial communication or an internationally recognized distress message format, in which case it is relayed through space stations, which indicates that a person, ship, aircraft, or other vehicle is threatened by grave and imminent danger and requests immediate assistance.

(1) In radiotelephony, the international distress signal consists of the enunciation of the word "Mayday", pronounced as the French expression "m'aider". In case of distress, transmission of this particular signal is intended to ensure recognition of a radiotelephone distress call by stations of any nationality.

(2) For GMDSS, distress alerts result in an audible alarm and visual indication that a ship or person is threatened by grave and imminent danger and requests immediate assistance. These automatic systems contain sufficient information in the distress alert message to identify the vessel, prepare to assist and begin a search. However, except when transmitted via satellite EPIRB, the distress alert is just the initial call for help. Communication between the vessel or person in distress and the Rescue Coordination Center (RCC) or ship assisting should always follow.
