
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### ยง 80.59 Compulsory ship inspections.

(a) Inspection of ships subject to the Communications Act or the Safety Convention.

(1) The FCC will not normally conduct the required inspections of ships subject to the inspection requirements of the Communications Act or the Safety Convention.

(2) A certification that the ship has passed an inspection must be entered into the ship's log by the inspecting technician. The technician conducting the inspection and providing the certification must not be the vessel's owner, operator, master, or employee or their affiliates. Additionally, the vessel owner, operator, or ship's master must certify in the station log that the inspection was satisfactory. There are no FCC prior notice requirements for any inspection pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. An inspection of the bridge-to-bridge radio stations on board vessels subject to the Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Act must be conducted by the same FCC-licensed technician.

(3) Additionally, for passenger vessels operated on an international voyage the inspecting technician must send a completed FCC Form 806 to the Officer in Charge, Marine Safety Office, United States Coast Guard in the Marine Inspection Zone in which the ship is inspected.

(4) In the event that a ship fails to pass an inspection the inspecting technician must make a log entry detailing the reason that the ship did not pass the inspection. Additionally, the technician must notify the vessel owner, operator, or ship's master that the vessel has failed the inspection.

(5) Because such inspections are intended to ensure the availability of communications capability during a distress the Commission will vigorously investigate reports of fraudulent inspections, or violations of the Communications Act or the Commission's Rules related to ship inspections. FCC-licensed technicians, ship owners or operators should report such violations to the Commission through its National Call Center at 1-888-CALL FCC (1-888-225-5322).

(b) Inspection and certification of a ship subject to the Great Lakes Agreement. The FCC will not inspect Great Lakes Agreement vessels. An inspection and certification of a ship subject to the Great Lakes Agreement must be made by a technician holding one of the following: an FCC General Radiotelephone Operator License, a GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License, a Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, a First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, or a Radiotelegraph Operator License. The certification required by ยง 80.953 must be entered into the ship's log. The technician conducting the inspection and providing the certification must not be the vessel's owner, operator, master, or an employee of any of them. Additionally, the vessel owner, operator, or ship's master must certify that the inspection was satisfactory. There are no FCC prior notice requirements for any inspection pursuant to ยง 80.59(b).
