
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### ยง 80.57 Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement for VHF maritime public correspondence.
####### Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement for West Coast VHF maritime mobile public correspondence.

(d)(1) The provisions of the Canada/U.S. channeling arrangement apply to waters of the State of Washington and of the Province of British Columbia within the coordination boundaries of "Arrangement A" of the Canada/U.S.A. Frequency Coordination Agreement above 30 MHz. In addition, all inland waters as far south as Olympia are to be included. A map of these waters is contained in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, Figure 1.

(2) The channeling arrangement applies to the following VHF public correspondence channels: Channels 24, 84, 25, 85, 26, 86, 27, 87 and 28.

(3) Public correspondence stations may be established by either country in accordance with the provisions of the arrangements. However, there must be an exchange of information prior to the establishment of new stations or a change in technical parameters of existing stations. Any channel except that used as primary or supplementary channel in a given sector is available for use as a local channel in that sector. Local channels are not protected from interference caused by primary or supplementary channels in adjacent sectors if these stations are in compliance with this section.

(4) Preliminary local Canadian/U.S. coordination is required for all applications at variance with this section. This coordination will be in accordance with the provisions of Arrangement "A" of the Canada/U.S. Frequency Coordination Agreement over 30 MHz. Stations at variance with the arrangement are not protected from interference and must not cause interference to existing or future stations which are in accordance with the agreement.

(5) The agreed channeling arrangements for the west coast are as follows:
