
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Administrative Offset - Consumer Reporting Agencies - Contracting for Collection
####### ยง 1.1912 Collection by administrative offset.
######## Mandatory centralized administrative offset.,See

(b)(1) The Commission is required to refer past due, legally enforceable nontax debts which are over 120 days delinquent to the Treasury for collection by centralized administrative offset. Debts which are less than 120 days delinquent also may be referred to the Treasury for this purpose.FCCS for debt certification requirements.

(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts referred to the Treasury as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and disbursing officials of the United States designated by the Treasury. When the name and TIN of a debtor match the name and TIN of a payee and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.

(3) Federal disbursing officials will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice shall include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of the creditor agency requesting the offset, and a contact point within the creditor agency who will respond to questions regarding the offset.

(4)(i) Before referring a delinquent debt to the Treasury for administrative offset, and subject to any agreement and/or waiver to the contrary by the debtor, the Commission shall ensure that offsets are initiated only after the debtor:

(A) Has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the Commission to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and

(B) The debtor has been given:
