
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Frequencies
###### Radiotelegraphy and Data
####### ยง 80.355 Distress, urgency, safety, call and reply Morse code frequencies.
######## Frequencies in the 2000-27500 kHz band,Ship station frequencies.

(b)-(1)The following table describes the calling frequencies in the 4000-27500 kHz band which are available for use by authorized ship stations equipped with crystal-controlled oscillators for A1A, J2A, J2B, or J2D radiotelegraphy. There are two series of frequencies for worldwide use and two series of frequencies for each geographic region. Ship stations with synthesized transmitters may operate on every full 100 Hz increment in the 0.5 kHz channel for the frequencies listed, except for 100 Hz above and below those designated for worldwide use. During normal business hours when not communicating on other frequencies, all U.S. coast radiotelegraph stations must monitor the worldwide frequencies and the initial calling frequencies for the region in which it is located. The specific frequencies which must be monitored by a coast station will vary with propagation conditions. The calling frequencies which are routinely monitored by specific coast stations can be determined by reference to the ITU publication entitled "List of Coast Stations." Initial calls by ship stations must be made on the appropriate initial calling frequency first. Calls on the worldwide frequencies may be made only after calls on the appropriate initial calling frequency are unsuccessful.
