
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Frequencies
###### Radiotelephony
####### § 80.371 Public correspondence frequencies.
######## See

(iii) Subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, each licensee may also operate on 12.5 kHz offset frequencies in areas where the licensee is authorized on both frequencies adjacent to the offset frequency, and in areas where the licensee on the other side of the offset frequency consents to the licensee's use of the adjacent offset frequency. Coordination with Canada is required for offset operations under any circumstance in which operations on either adjoining 25 kHz channel would require such coordination.§ 80.57 of this part.

(2) Any recovered channel pairs will revert automatically to the holder of the VPCSA license within which such channels are included, except the channel pairs listed in the table in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Those channel pairs, and any channel pairs recovered where there is no VPCSA licensee, will be retained by the Commission for future licensing.

(e) Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement frequencies. The VHF frequencies assignable to ship and coast stations in the State of Washington and their usage limitations pursuant to the Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement are described in subpart B of this part.

(4) Subject to the requirements of § 1.924 of this chapter and § 80.21, each VPCSA licensee may place stations anywhere within its region without obtaining prior Commission approval provided:

(i) It provides to co-channel coast station incumbent licensees, and incumbent Private Land Mobile Radio licensees authorized under part 90 of this chapter on a primary basis, protection as defined in subpart P of this part. VPCSA licensees that share a common border may either distribute the available frequencies upon mutual agreement or request that the Commission assign frequencies along the common border.

(ii) The locations and/or technical parameters of the transmitters are such that individual coordination of the channel assignment(s) with a foreign administration, under applicable international agreements and rules in this part, is not required.

(iii) For any construction or alteration that would exceed the requirements of § 17.7 of this chapter, licensees must notify the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA Form 7460-1) and file a request for antenna height clearance and obstruction marking and lighting specifications (FCC Form 854) with the FCC, Attn: Information Processing Branch, 1270 Fairfield Rd., Gettysburg, PA 17325-7245.

(iv) The transmitters must not have a significant environmental effect as defined by §§ 1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter.
