
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Frequencies
###### Radiotelephony
####### ยง 80.373 Private communications frequencies.
######## Frequencies in the 2000-27500 kHz band for medical advisory communications.

(e)(1) Private coast stations may be authorized to use any frequencies within the 2030-27500 kHz band that are allocated to Government and non-Government fixed or fixed and mobile radio services shown in the Commission's Table of Frequency Allocations contained in ยง 2.106 of this chapter for communications with ship stations to provide medical treatment information or advice. Assignment of these frequencies is subject to the following limitations:

(2) No protection is provided from harmful interference caused by foreign stations; and

(3) A private coast station must cease operations on a frequency that causes harmful interference to a foreign station.

(f) Frequencies in the 156-162 MHz band. The following tables describe the carrier frequencies available in the 156-162 MHz band for radiotelephone communications between ship and private coast stations. (the letter "A" following the channel designator indicates simplex operation on a channel designated internationally as a duplex channel.)

(g)(1) On-board communications: This section describes the carrier frequency pairs assignable for on-board mobile radiotelephony communications. The center of the on-board repeater antenna must not be located more than 3 meters (10 feet) above the ship's working deck. These frequencies are available on a shared basis with stations in the Industrial/Business Radio Pool.

(2) Where needed, equipment designed for 12.5 kHz channel spacing using the additional frequencies 457.5375 MHz, 457.5625 MHz, 467.5375 MHz, and 467.5625 MHz may be introduced for on-board communications.
