
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Frequencies
###### Radiotelephony
####### ยง 80.373 Private communications frequencies.
######## Frequencies avaiable.

(1)

(2) Except for 2093.0 kHz and 2214.0 kHz the frequencies shown in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are authorized primarily for intership safety communications in the indicated geographic area.

(3) Except for the frequencies 2093.0 kHz, 2214.0 kHz and 2670.0 kHz, the frequencies shown in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be used on a non-interference basis to safety communications, for operational communications and, in the case of commercial transport ships and ships of municipal and state governments, for business communications.

(4) Ship stations may communicate with government coast stations on 2003.0 kHz about passage of vessels. Interference must not be caused to communications on the St. Lawrence Seaway and on the St. Mary's River.

(5) Ship stations may use 2670.0 kHz for communications with coast and ship stations of the U.S. Coast Guard. When a ship is not equipped to transmit on 2670.0 kHz or in the band 156-162 MHz the frequency 2003.0 kHz may be used on the Great Lakes for communications must not cause harmful interference to intership safety, operational and business communications.

(6) Navigational communications between ships and private coast stations may be exchanged on 2738.0 kHz and 2830.0 kHz. The frequencies 2214.0 kHz, 2738.0 kHz and 2830.0 kHz are assignable to private coast stations upon a showing that they need to communicate with commercial transport or Government ships. Private coast station applicants must show that public coast stations do not provide the required communications and harmful interference will not be caused to the intership use of these frequencies. The transmitter power must not exceed 150 watts. If 2214.0 kHz is authorized for ships, intership communication is also authorized. The geographic limitations to the frequencies 2738.0 kHz and 2830.0 kHz do not prohibit intership communication of less than 320 km (200 statute miles) when only one of the ship stations is within a permitted use geographic area.

(7) Private aircraft stations may communicate with ship stations on 2738.0 kHz and 2830.0 kHz if:

(i) The communications are limited to business or operational needs of the vessel while it is engaged in commercial fishing activities in the open sea or adjacent waters;

(ii) Harmful interference must not be caused to intership communications;

(iii) The maximum output power used for such communication must not exceed 25 watts;
