
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Frequencies
###### Radiotelephony
####### ยง 80.373 Private communications frequencies.
######## Frequencies in the 2000-27500 kHz bands for business and operational communications.

(c)(1) The following simplex frequencies in the 2000-27500 kHz band are available for assignment to private coast stations for business and operational radiotelephone communications. These simplex frequencies also are available for use by authorized ship stations for business and operational radiotelephone communications.

(2) Assignment of these frequencies is subject to the following general limitations:

(i) These frequencies are shared and are not available for the exclusive use of any station. No more than one frequency from each of the frequency bands will be authorized to a private station without justification;

(ii) The emissions must be J3E or J2D except that when DSC is used the emission must be F1B or J2B; and

(iii) Maximum transmitter output power is limited to 1 kW except as noted.

(3) In addition to the frequencies shown in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the following coast transmit frequencies listed in the table in ยง 80.371(a) of this chapter are available for assignment to private coast stations and authorized ship stations for simplex business and operational radiotelephone communications: in the East Coast, West Coast, and Gulf Coast regions, 2482 kHz; in the Alaska region, 2309 kHz. These frequencies shall not be assigned to public coast stations before July 25, 2002. After that date, only the above frequencies in the above regions that have been assigned to at least one private coast station shall continue to be available for assignment to private coast stations. If, by that date, in any of the above regions, any of the above frequencies has not been assigned to a private coast station, that frequency in that region shall be available for assignment only to public coast stations.
