
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Administrative Offset - Consumer Reporting Agencies - Contracting for Collection
####### ยง 1.1912 Collection by administrative offset.
######## Non-centralized administrative offset.

(c)(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that the Commission conducts, at the Commission's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable nontax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, a creditor agency may make a request directly to a payment-authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for a creditor agency to request that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump-sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.

(2) The Commission will make reasonable effort to ensure that such offsets may occur only after:

(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section (subject to any waiver by the debtor); and

(ii) The payment authorizing agency has received written certification from the Commission that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.

(3) Payment authorizing agencies shall comply with offset requests by creditor agencies to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the program of the payment authorizing agency, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use should be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset.

(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, agencies should apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
