
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Station Documents
###### ยง 80.409 Station logs.
####### Public coast station logs.

(c)Public coast stations must maintain a log, whether by means of written or automatic logging or a combination thereof. The log must contain the following information:

(1) "ON DUTY" must be entered by the operator beginning a duty period, followed in the case of a written log by the operator's signature. "OFF DUTY" must be entered by the operator being relieved of or terminating duty, followed in the case of a written log by the operator's signature.

(2) The date and time of making an entry must be shown opposite the entry.

(3) Failure of equipment to operate as required and incidents tending to unduly delay communication must be entered.

(4) All measurements of the transmitter frequency(ies) must be entered with a statement of any corrective action taken.

(5) Entries must be made giving details of all work performed which may affect the proper operation of the station. The entry must be made, dated and in the case of a written log signed by the operator who supervised or performed the work and, unless the operator is regularly employed on a full-time basis at the station, must also include the mailing address, class, serial number, and expiration date of the operator license.

(6) Entries must be made about the operation of the antenna tower lights when the radio station has an antenna structure requiring illumination by part 17 of this chapter.

(7) All distress or safety related calls transmitted or received must be entered, together with the frequency used and the position of any vessel in need of assistance.
