
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Station Documents
###### ยง 80.409 Station logs.
####### Availability and retention.

(b)Station logs must be made available to authorized Commission employees upon request and retained as follows:

(1) Logs must be retained by the licensee for a period of two years from the date of entry, and, when applicable, for such additional periods as required by the following paragraphs:

(i) Logs relating to a distress situation or disaster must be retained for three years from the date of entry.

(ii) If the Commission has notified the licensee of an investigation, the related logs must be retained until the licensee is specifically authorized in writing to destroy them.

(iii) Logs relating to any claim or complaint of which the station licensee has notice must be retained until the claim or complaint has been satisfied or barred by statute limiting the time for filing suits upon such claims.

(2) Logs containing entries required by paragraph (c) of this section must be kept either at the principal control point of the station or electronically filed at the station licensee's primary office or available to the Commission via secured access to the licensee's Internet web site. Logs containing entries required by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section must be kept at the principal radiotelephone operating location while the vessel is being navigated. All entries in their original form must be retained on board the vessel for at least 30 days from the date of entry. Additionally, logs required by paragraph (f) of this section must be retained on board the vessel for a period of 2 years from the date of the last inspection of the ship radio station.

(3) Ship radiotelegraph logs must be kept in the principal radiotelegraph operating room during the voyage.
