
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Station Documents
###### ยง 80.409 Station logs.
####### General requirements.

(a)Logs must be established and properly maintained as follows:

(1) The log must be kept in an orderly manner. The log may be kept electronically or in writing. The required information for the particular class or category of station must be readily available. Key letters or abbreviations may be used if their proper meaning or explanation is contained elsewhere in the same log.

(2) Erasures, obliterations, or willful destruction of written logs, or deletions of data or willful destruction of computer files or computer hardware containing electronic logs, is prohibited during the retention period. Corrections may be made only by the person originating the entry by striking out the error, initialing the correction and indicating the date of correction. With respect to electronic logs, striking out the error is to be accomplished using a strike-through formatting effect or a similar software function, and the correction is to be acknowledged through a dated electronic signature at the location of the strike-through.

(3) Ship station logs must identify the vessel name, country of registry, and official number of the vessel.

(4) The station licensee and the radio operator in charge of the station are responsible for the maintenance of station logs.
