
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Station Documents
###### ยง 80.409 Station logs.
####### Ship radiotelephone logs.

(e)Logs of ship stations which are compulsorily equipped for radiotelephony must contain the following applicable log entries and the time of their occurrence:

(1) A summary of all distress and urgency communications affecting the station's own ship, all distress alerts relayed by the station's own ship, and all distress call acknowledgements and other communications received from search and rescue authorities.

(2) A summary of safety communications on other than VHF channels affecting the station's own ship.

(3) The time of any inadvertent transmissions of distress, urgency and safety signals including the time and method of cancellation.

(4) An entry that pre-departure equipment checks were satisfactory and that required publications are on hand. Daily entries of satisfactory tests to ensure the continued proper functioning of GMDSS equipment shall be made.

(5) A daily statement about the condition of the required radiotelephone equipment, as determined by either normal communication or test communication;

(6) A weekly entry that:

(i) The proper functioning of digital selective calling (DSC) equipment has been verified by actual communications or a test call;

(ii) The portable survival craft radio gear and radar transponders have been tested; and

(iii) The EPIRBs have been inspected.

(7) An entry at least once every thirty days that the batteries or other reserve power sources have been checked and are functioning properly.

(8) Results of required equipment tests, including specific gravity of lead-acid storage batteries and voltage reading of other types of batteries provided as a part of the compulsory installation;

(9) Results of inspections and tests of compulsorily fitted lifeboat radio equipment;

(10) When the master is notified about improperly operating radiotelephone equipment.

(11) At the beginning of each watch, the Officer of the Navigational Watch, or GMDSS Operator on watch, if one is provided, shall ensure that the navigation receiver is functioning properly and is interconnected to all GMDSS alerting devices which do not have integral navigation receivers, including: VHF DSC, MF DSC, satellite EPIRB and HF DSC or INMARSAT SES. On a ship without integral or directly connected navigation receiver input to GMDSS equipment, the Officer of the Navigational Watch, or GMDSS Operator on watch, shall update the embedded position in each equipment. An appropriate log entry of these actions shall be made.

(12) An entry describing any malfunctioning GMDSS equipment and another entry when the equipment is restored to normal operation.

(13) A GMDSS radio log entry shall be made whenever GMDSS equipment is exchanged or replaced (ensuring that ship MMSI identifiers are properly updated in the replacement equipment), when major repairs to GMDSS equipment are accomplished, and when annual GMDSS inspections are conducted.
