
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Station Documents
###### ยง 80.409 Station logs.
####### Ship radiotelegraph logs.

(d)Logs of ship stations which are compulsorily equipped for radiotelegraphy and operating in the band 90 to 535 kHz must contain log entries as follows:

(1) The date and time of each occurrence or incident required to be entered in the log must be shown opposite the entry and the time must be expressed in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

(2) "ON WATCH" must be entered by the operator beginning a watch, followed by the operator's signature for stations maintaining written logs. "OFF WATCH" must be entered by the operator being relieved or terminating a watch, followed by the operator's signature for stations maintaining written logs. All log entries must be completed by the end of each watch.

(3) During the watch, all calls and replies to and from the station must be entered to include the time, frequencies, and call letters of the station communicated with or heard. Also, any messages exchanged must be entered to include the time, frequency, and call letters of the station(s) communicated with or heard.

(4) All distress calls, automatic-alarm signals, urgency and safety signals made or intercepted, the complete text, if possible, or distress messages and distress communications, and any incidents or occurrences which may appear to be of importance to safety of life or property at sea, must be entered, together with the time of such observation or occurrence and the position of the ship or other mobile unit in need of assistance.

(5) The position of the ship at least once per day.

(6) A daily entry must be made comparing the radio station clock with standard time, including errors observed and corrections made. For this purpose, authentic radio time signals received from land or fixed stations will be acceptable as standard time.

(7) All test transmissions must be entered, including the time of the transmissions and the approximate geographical location of the vessel.

(8) Any failure of equipment to operate as required and any incidents tending to unduly delay communications must be entered.
