
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Station Documents
###### ยง 80.409 Station logs.
####### Applicable radiotelephone log entries.

(f)The log entries listed in paragraph (e) of this section are applicable as follows (vessels subject to the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) should also refer to subpart W of this Part for additional guidance on maintenance of station logs):

(1) Radiotelephony stations subject to the Communications Act and/or the Safety Convention must record entries indicated by paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(13) of this section. Additionally, the radiotelephone log must provide an easily identifiable, separate section relating to the required inspection of the ship's radio station. Entries must be made in this section giving at least the following information.

(i) For ships that pass the inspection:

(A) The date the inspection was conducted.

(B) The date by which the next inspection needs to completed.

(C) The inspector's printed name, address and class of FCC license (including the serial number).

(D) The results of the inspection, including any repairs made.

(E) The inspector's signed and dated certification that the vessel meets the requirements of the Communications Act and, if applicable, the Safety Convention and the Bridge-to-Bridge Act contained in subparts R, S, U, or W of this part and has successfully passed the inspection.

(F) The vessel owner, operator, or ship's master's certification that the inspection was satisfactory.

(ii) For ships that fail the inspection:

(A) The date the inspection was conducted.

(B) The inspector's printed name, address and class of FCC license (including the serial number).

(C) The reason that the ship did not pass the inspection.

(D) The date and time that the ship's owner, operator or master was notified that the ship failed the inspection.

(2) Radiotelephony stations subject to the Great Lakes Agreement and the Bridge-to-Bridge Act must record entries indicated by paragraphs (e)(1), (3), (5), (6), (7), (8), (10), (11), and (13), and of this section. Additionally, the radiotelephone log must provide an easily identifiable, separate section relating to the required inspection of the ship's radio station. Entries must be made in this section giving at least the following information:

(i) The date the inspection was conducted;

(ii) The date by which the next inspection needs to be completed;

(iii) The inspector's printed name, address and class of FCC license (including the serial number);

(iv) The results of the inspection, including any repairs made;

(v) The inspector's signed and dated certification that the vessel meets the requirements of the Great Lakes Agreement and the Bridge-to-Bridge Act contained in subparts T and U of this part and has successfully passed the inspection; and

(vi) The vessel owner, operator, or ship's master's certification that the inspection was satisfactory.

(3) Radiotelephony stations subject to the Bridge-to-Bridge Act must record entries indicated by paragraphs (e)(1), (3), (5) (6), (7), (10), and (11) of this section.
