
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Compulsory Radiotelephone Installations for Small Passenger Boats
###### § 80.905 Vessel radio equipment.
####### see

(v) Be equipped with a NAVTEX receiver conforming to the following performance standards: IMO Resolution A.525(13), as revised by IMO Resolution MSC.148(77) and ITU-R M.540-2 (all incorporated by reference,§ 80.7);

(vi) Be equipped with a Category I 406-406.1 MHz satellite emergency position-indicating radiobeacon (EPIRB) meeting the requirements of § 80.1061;

(vii) Be equipped with an automatic radiotelephone alarm signal generator meeting the requirements of § 80.221; and

(viii) Participate in the AMVER system while engaged on any voyage where the vessel is navigated in the open sea for more than 24 hours. Copies of the AMVER Bulletin are available at: AMVER Maritime Relations, USCG Battery Park Building, Room 201, New York, NY 10004-1499. Phone 212-668-7764; Fax 212-668-7684.

(5) Vessels must comply with the requirements for a navigation receiver or manual updating of position information contained in § 80.1085(c).

(b) For a vessel that is navigated within the communication range of a VHF public coast station or U.S. Coast Guard station, but beyond the 20-nautical mile limitation specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an exemption from the band 1605 to 2850 kHz installation requirements may be granted if the vessel is equipped with a VHF transmitter and receiver. An application for exemption must include a chart showing the route of the voyage or the area of operation of the vessel, and the receiving service area of the VHF public coast or U.S. Coast Guard station. The coverage area of the U.S. Coast Guard station must be based on written information from the District Commander, U.S. Coast Guard, a copy of which must be furnished with the application. The coverage area of a public coast station must be computed by the method specified in subpart P of this part.

(c) The radiotelephone installation must be installed to insure safe operation of the equipment and to facilitate repair. It must be protected against the vibration, moisture, temperature, and excessive currents and voltages.

(d) A VHF-DSC radiotelephone installation or a remote unit must be located at each steering station except those auxiliary steering stations which are used only during brief periods for docking or for close-in maneuvering. A single portable VHF-DSC radiotelephone set meets the requirements of this paragraph if adequate permanent mounting arrangements with suitable power provision and antenna feed are installed at each operator steering station. Additionally, for vessels of more than 100 gross tons, the radiotelephone installation must be located at the level of the main wheelhouse or at least one deck above the vessel's main deck.
