
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Salary Offset-Individual Debt
####### ยง 1.1928 Hearing.
######## Type of hearing.

(b)(1) The form and content of the hearing will be determined by the hearing official who shall be a person outside the control or authority of the Commission except that nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the appointment of an administrative law judge by the Commission. In determining the type of hearing, the hearing officer will consider the nature and complexity of the transaction giving rise to the debt. The hearing may be conducted as an informal conference or interview, in which the Commission and employee will be given a full opportunity to present their respective positions, or as a more formal proceeding involving the presentation of evidence, arguments and written submissions.

(2) The employee may represent him or herself, or may be represented by an attorney.

(3) The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of the hearing.

(4) The decision of the hearing officer shall be in writing, and shall state:

(i) The facts purported to evidence the nature and origin of the alleged debt;

(ii) The hearing official's analysis, findings, and conclusions, in the light of the hearing, as to-

(A) The employee's and/or agency's grounds,

(B) The amount and validity of the alleged debt, and,

(C) The repayment schedule, if applicable.

(5) The decision of the hearing official shall constitute the final administrative decision of the Commission.
