
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart V - Emergency Position Indicating Radiobeacons (EPIRB's)
###### ยง 80.1061 Special requirements for 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRB stations.
####### see

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section, 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs must meet all the technical and performance standards contained in RTCM 11000 (incorporated by reference,ยง 80.7), and must also comply with the standards specified in ยง 80.1101(c)(5). Beginning January 17, 2018, all new applications for certification of 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of RTCM 11000. 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs that do not meet the requirements of RTCM 11000 shall not be manufactured, imported, or sold in the United States beginning January 17, 2020. Operation of 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs that do not meet the requirements of RTCM 11000 shall be prohibited on vessels subject to 47 CFR subparts R, S, or W beginning January 17, 2023. Existing 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs that do not meet the requirements of RTCM 11000 must be operated as certified.

(b) The 406.0-406.1 EPIRB must contain as an integral part a "homing" beacon operating only on 121.500 MHz that meets all the requirements described in the RTCM Recommended Standards document described in paragraph (a) of this section. The 121.500 MHz "homing" beacon must have a continuous duty cycle that may be interrupted during the transmission of the 406.0-406.1 MHz signal only. Additionally, at least 30 percent of the total power emitted during any transmission cycle must be contained within plus or minus 30 Hz of the carrier frequency.
