
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart W - Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS)
###### Equipment Requirements for Ship Stations
####### ยง 80.1083 Ship radio installations.
######## see

(d) Shipborne Integrated Radiocommunication System (IRCS) may be utilized to integrate all GMDSS equipment into a standard operator's console. Such installation must be certified in accordance with ยง 80.1103 and meet the requirements of IMO Resolution A.811(19) (incorporated by reference,ยง 80.7).

(e) In passenger ships, a distress panel shall be installed at the conning position. This panel shall contain either one single button which, when pressed, initiates a distress alert using all radiocommunications installations required on board for that purpose or one button for each individual installation. The panel shall clearly and visually indicate whenever any button or buttons have been pressed. Means shall be provided to prevent inadvertent activation of the button or buttons. If the satellite EPIRB is used as the secondary means of distress alerting and is not remotely activated, it shall be acceptable to have an additional EPIRB installed in the wheelhouse near the conning position.

(f) In passenger ships, information on the ship's position shall be continuously and automatically provided to all relevant radiocommunications equipment to be included in the initial distress alert when the button or buttons on the distress panel is pressed.

(g) In passenger ships, a distress alarm panel shall be installed at the conning position. The distress alarm panel shall provide visual and aural indication of any distress alert or alerts received on board and shall also indicate through which radiocommunication service the distress alerts have been received.
