
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart W - Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS)
###### Equipment Requirements for Ship Stations
####### ยง 80.1085 Ship radio equipment - General.
######## see,See

(iii) Examined and tested annually in accordance with the IMO standard, IMO Circular MSC/Circ.1040 (incorporated by reference,ยง 80.7).ยง 80.1105(k).

(b) Ships must carry either the most recent edition of the IMO publication entitled GMDSS Master Plan of Shore-Based Facilities, the U.S. NGA Publication 117, or the Admiralty List of Radio Signals Volume 5 Global Maritime Distress and Safety System. Notice of new editions will be published on the Commission's Wireless Telecommunications Bureau Web page under "Marine Services" and information will be provided about obtaining the new document.

(c) All GMDSS equipment capable of transmitting an automatic distress alert which includes position of the ship must have either an integral navigation receiver or capability of being connected to an external navigation receiver. If an external navigation receiver is installed, it shall be connected to all of the alerting devices referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. If there is no navigation receiver, the position must be entered manually for each alerting device at least once every 4 hours (at the change of the navigation watch).

(d) Every passenger ship shall be provided with means for two-way on-scene radiocommunications for search and rescue purposes using the aeronautical frequencies 121.5 and 123.1 MHz from the position from which the ship is normally navigated.
