
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart W - Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS)
###### Equipment Requirements for Ship Stations
####### § 80.1103 Equipment authorization.

(a) All equipment specified in § 80.1101 must be certified in accordance with subpart J of part 2 of this chapter specifically for GMDSS use, except for equipment used in the INMARSAT space segment which must be type-approved by INMARSAT and are subject to Supplier's Declaration of Conformity pursuant to the procedures in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter specifically for GMDSS use. The technical parameters of the equipment must conform to the performance standards as specified in § 80.1101. For emergency position-indicating radiobeacons operating on 406.0-406.1 MHz (406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs) that were authorized prior to April 15, 1992, and meet the requirements of § 80.1101, the manufacturer may attest by letter that the equipment (indicate FCC ID#) meets the requirements of § 80.1101 and request that it be denoted as approved for GMDSS use.

(b) Applicants for certification must submit with their applications measurement data sufficiently complete to ensure compliance with the technical parameters. The application must include the items listed in 47 CFR 2.1033. Additional measurement data or information may be requested depending upon the equipment. For items not listed in § 2.1033 of this chapter, the applicant must attest that the equipment complies with performance standards as specified in § 80.1101 and, where applicable, that measurements have been made that demonstrate the necessary compliance. Submission of representative data demonstrating compliance is not required unless requested by the Commission.

(c) Applicants using Supplier's Declaration of Conformity must attest that the equipment complies with performance standards as specified in § 80.1101 and, where applicable, that measurements have been made that demonstrate the necessary compliance. Submission of representative data demonstrating compliance is not required unless requested by the Commission. An application must include the items listed in §§ 2.931 and 2.938 of this chapter and a copy of the type-approval certification indicating that equipment meets GMDSS standards and includes all peripheral equipment associated with the specific unit under review.

(d) Submission of a sample unit is not required unless specifically requested by the Commission.

(e) In addition to the requirements in part 2 of this chapter, equipment specified in § 80.1101 shall be labeled as follows: "This device complies with the GMDSS provisions of part 80 of the FCC rules." Such a label is not required for emergency position-indicating radiobeacons operating on 406.0-406.1 MHz (406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs) that were authorized prior to April 15, 1992.
