
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart W - Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS)
###### Equipment Requirements for Ship Stations
####### § 80.1105 Maintenance requirements.
######## i.e.,

(h) The radio installations specified in paragraph (g) of this section (referred as "duplicated equipment"), in addition to the appropriate radio equipment specified in § 80.1099 (referred as "basic equipment"), must be connected to the reserve sources of energy required by § 80.1099. The capacity of the reserve sources of energy should be sufficient to operate the particular installation (the basic equipment or the duplicated equipment) with the highest power consumption, for the appropriate period specified in § 80.1099. However, the arrangement for the reserve sources of energy must be such that a single fault in this arrangement cannot affect both the basic and the duplicated equipment.

(i) If the shore-based maintenance method is used, the following requirements apply.

(1) Maintenance services must be completed and performance verified and noted in the ship's record before departure from the first port of call entered after any failure occurs.

(2) Each GMDSS equipment must be tested and performance verified and the results noted in the ship's record before departure from every port. To accomplish this, each ship shall carry a performance checkoff sheet listing each GMDSS equipment carried on a mandatory basis.

(j) If the at-sea maintenance method is used, the following requirements apply.

(1) Adequate additional technical documentation, tools, test equipment, and spare parts must be carried on-board ship to enable a qualified maintainer as specified in § 80.1074 to perform tests and localize and repair faults in the radio equipment.

(2) Only persons that comply with the requirements of § 80.1074 may perform at-sea maintenance on radio installations required by this subpart.

(k) Satellite EPIRBs shall be tested at intervals not exceeding 12 months for all aspects of operational efficiency with particular emphasis on frequency stability, signal strength and coding. The test may be conducted on board the ship or at an approved testing or servicing station.
