
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 80 - STATIONS IN THE MARITIME SERVICES
##### Subpart W - Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS)
###### Operating Procedures for Distress and Safety Communications
####### ยง 80.1133 Transmission of safety communications.

(a) In a terrestrial system the announcement of the safety message must be made on one or more of the distress and safety calling frequencies specified in ยง 80.1077 using digital selective calling techniques. A separate announcement need not be made if the message is to be transmitted through the maritime mobile-satellite service.

(b) The safety signal and message must normally be transmitted on one or more of the distress and safety traffic frequencies specified in ยง 80.1077, or via the maritime mobile satellite service or on other frequencies used for this purpose.

(c) The safety signal consists of the word SECURITE. In radiotelephony, it is pronounced as in French.

(d) The safety call format or the safety signal indicates that the calling station has an important navigational or meteorological warning to transmit.

(e) In radiotelephony, the safety message must be preceded by the safety signal, repeated three times, and the identification of the transmitting station.

(f) In narrow-band direct-printing, the safety message must be preceded by the safety signal and the identification of the transmitting station.
