
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Salary Offset-Individual Debt
####### ยง 1.1934 Recovery when the Commission is not creditor agency.
######## Responsibilities of creditor agency.

(a)Upon completion of the procedures established under 5 U.S.C. 5514, the creditor agency must do the following:

(1) Must certify, in writing, that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date of the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, and that the creditor agency's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 have been approved by OPM.

(2) If the collection must be made in installments, the creditor agency also must advise the Commission of the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the commencement date of the first installment (if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required).

(3) Unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures, and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the Commission, the creditor agency also must advise the Commission of the action(s) taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and give the date(s) the action(s) was taken.

(4) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the creditor agency must submit a debt claim containing the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section and an installment agreement (or other instruction on the payment schedule), if applicable to the Commission.

(5) If the employee is in the process of separating, the creditor agency must submit its claim to the Commission for collection pursuant to ยง 1.1930. The Commission will certify the total amount of its collection and provide copies to the creditor agency and the employee as stated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the Commission is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that there has been full compliance with the provisions of this section. However, the creditor agency must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection can be made.
