
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Salary Offset-Individual Debt
####### § 1.1936 Administrative wage garnishment.
######## Scope.

(b)(1) This section applies to Commission-administered programs that give rise to a delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States and to the Commission's pursuit of recovery of such debt.

(2) This section shall apply notwithstanding any provision of State law.

(3) Nothing in this section precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with applicable law. See, for example, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.

(4) The receipt of payments pursuant to this section does not preclude the Commission from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal payments to satisfy delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States. The Commission may pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with administrative wage garnishment.

(5) This section does not apply to the collection of delinquent nontax debt owed to the Commission from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514, §§ 1.1925 through 1.1935, and other applicable laws.

(6) Nothing in this section requires the Commission to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
