
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Aircraft Stations
###### Emergency Locator Transmitters
####### § 87.199 Special requirements for 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs.
######## http://www.beaconregistration.noaa.gov.

(e) An identification code, issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the United States Program Manager for the 406.0-406.1 MHz COSPAS/SARSAT satellite system, must be programmed in each ELT unit to establish a unique identification for each ELT station. With each marketable ELT unit the manufacturer or grantee must include a postage pre-paid registration card printed with the ELT identification code addressed to: NOAA/SARSAT Beacon Registration, NSOF, E/SPO53, 1315 East West Hwy, Silver Spring, MD 20910-9684. The registration card must request the owner's name, address, telephone, type of aircraft, alternate emergency contact, and other information as required by NOAA. The registration card must also contain information regarding the availability to register the ELT at NOAA's online Web-based registration database at:Further, the following statement must be included: "WARNING-failure to register this ELT with NOAA before installation could result in a monetary forfeiture being issued to the owner."

(f) To enhance protection of life and property, it is mandatory that each 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must be registered with NOAA before installation and that information be kept up-to-date. In addition to the identification plate or label requirements contained in §§ 2.925 and 2.926 of this chapter, each 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must be provided on the outside with a clearly discernable permanent plate or label containing the following statement: "The owner of this 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must register the NOAA identification code contained on this label with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), whose address is: NOAA/SARSAT Beacon Registration, NSOF, E/SPO53, 1315 East West Hwy, Silver Spring, MD 20910-9684." Aircraft owners shall advise NOAA in writing upon change of aircraft or ELT ownership, or any other change in registration information. Fleet operators must notify NOAA upon transfer of ELT to another aircraft outside of the owner's control, or any other change in registration information. NOAA will provide registrants with proof of registration and change of registration postcards.

(g) For 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs whose identification code can be changed after manufacture, the identification code shown on the plant or label must be easily replaceable using commonly available tools.
