
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Aircraft Stations
###### Emergency Locator Transmitters
####### ยง 87.199 Special requirements for 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs.
######## www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html,fr.inspection@nara.gov.,info@rtca.org;,www.rtca.org.

(a) 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs use G1D emission. Except for the spurious emission limits specified in ยง 87.139(h), 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs must meet all the technical and performance standards contained in the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics document titled "Minimum Operational Performance Standards 406 MHz Emergency Locator Transmitters (ELT)" Document No. RTCA/DO-204 dated September 29, 1989. Document No. RTCA/DO-204 is incorporated by reference into this the section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FCC and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FCC through the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, phone: (202) 418-0270. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visitor emailThe material may be obtained from the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA), Inc., 1150 18th Street NW, Suite 910, Washington, DC 20036; phone: (202) 833-9339; email:website:

(b) The 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must contain as an integral part a homing beacon operating only on 121.500 MHz that meets all the requirements described in the RTCA Recommended Standards document described in paragraph (a) of this section. The 121.500 MHz homing beacon must have a continuous duty cycle that may be interrupted during the transmission of the 406.0-406.1 MHz signal only.

(c) As part of its Supplier's Declaration of Conformity a 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT, the ELT must be certified by a test facility recognized by one of the COSPAS/SARSAT Partners that the equipment satisfies the design characteristics associated with the COSPAS/SARSAT document COSPAS/SARSAT 406 MHz Distress Beacon Type Approval Standard (C/S T.007). Additionally, an independent test facility must certify that the ELT complies with the electrical and environmental standards associated with the RTCA Recommended Standards.

(d) The procedures for Supplier's Declaration of Conformity are contained in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.
