
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Aircraft Stations
###### ยง 87.187 Frequencies.
####### See

(p) The 1435-1525 MHz and 2360-2395 MHz bands are available on a primary basis, and the 2345-2360 MHz band is available on a secondary basis (the latter band only until January 1, 2020), for telemetry and telecommand associated with the flight testing of aircraft, missiles, or related major components. This includes launching into space, reentry into the Earth's atmosphere and incidental orbiting prior to reentry. In the 1435-1525 MHz band, the following frequencies are shared on a co-equal basis with flight telemetering mobile stations: 1444.5, 1453.5, 1501.5, 1515.5, and 1524.5 MHz. In the 2360-2395 MHz band, the following frequencies may be assigned for telemetry and associated telecommand operations of expendable and re-usable launch vehicles, whether or not such operations involve flight testing: 2364.5, 2370.5 and 2382.5 MHz.ยง 87.303(d).

(q) The frequencies in the band 1545.000-1559.000 MHz and 1646.500-1660.500 MHz are authorized for use by the Aeronautical Mobile-Satellite (R) Service. The use of the bands 1544.000-1545.000 MHz (space-to-Earth) and 1645.500-1646.500 MHz (Earth-to-space) by the Mobile-Satellite Service is limited to distress and safety operations. In the frequency bands 1549.500-1558.500 MHz and 1651.000-1660.000 MHz, the Aeronautical Mobile-Satellite (R) requirements that cannot be accommodated in the 1545.000-1549.500 MHz, 1558.500-1559.000 MHz, 1646.500-1651.000 MHz, and 1660.000-1660.500 MHz bands shall have priority access with real-time preemptive capability for communications in the Mobile-Satellite Service. Systems not interoperable with the Aeronautical Mobile-Satellite (R) Service shall operate on a secondary basis. Account shall be taken of the priority of safety-related communications in the Mobile-Satellite Service.

(r) The frequency band 1559-1626.5 MHz is available for airborne electronic aids to air navigation and any associated land station.

(s) The frequency band 4200-4400 MHz is reserved exclusively for radio altimeters.

(t) The frequency band 5350-5470 MHz in the aeronautical radionavigation service is limited to airborne radars and associated airborne beacons.

(u) The frequency band 8750-8850 MHz is available for use by airborne doppler radars in the aeronautical radionavigation service only on the condition that they must accept any interference which may be experienced from stations in the radiolocation service in the band 8500-10,000 MHz.

(v) The frequency band 9300-9500 MHz is limited to airborne radars and associated airborne beacons.

(w) The frequency band 13250-13400 MHz available for airborne doppler radar use.

(x) The frequency bands 24450-24650 MHz and 32300-33400 MHz are available for airborne radionavigation devices.

(y) Brief keyed RF signals (keying the transmitter by momentarily depressing the microphone "push-to-talk" button) may be transmitted from aircraft for the control of automated unicoms on the unicom frequencies listed in paragraph (y)(3) of this section, or for the control of airport lights on the following frequencies:

(1) Any air traffic control frequency listed in ยง 87.421.

(2) FAA Flight Service Station frequencies 121.975-122.675 MHz.

(3) The unicom frequencies 122.700, 122.725, 122.800, 122.950, 122.975, 123.000, 123.050 and 123.075 MHz.

(4) Aviation support station frequencies listed in ยง 87.323(b): 121.950, 123.300 and 123.500 MHz if the frequency is assigned to a station at the airport and no harmful interference is caused to voice communications. If no such station is located at the concerned airport, aircraft may use one of the aviation support station frequencies for the control of airport lights.

(5) The frequency 122.9 MHz when it is used as the common traffic advisory frequency at the concerned airport.

(z) Frequencies for public correspondence between ships and public coast stations in the maritime mobile service (except frequencies in the 156-174 MHz band) and coast earth stations in the maritime mobile-satellite service are available for public correspondence between aircraft and public coast stations and coast earth stations, respectively. The transmission of public correspondence from aircraft must not cause interference to maritime communications.

(aa) Frequencies in the 454.675-459.975 MHz band are available in the Public Mobile Radio Service (part 22) for use on board aircraft for communications with land mobile stations which are interconnected to the nationwide public telephone system.

(bb) The frequencies 121.950 MHz, 122.850 MHz and 127.050MHz are authorized for air-to-air use for aircraft up to and including 3 km (10,000 ft) mean sea level in the vicinity of Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(cc) The frequency 120.650 MHzis authorized for air-to-air use for aircraft up to and including 3 km (10,000 ft) mean sea level within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(dd) The frequencies 136.425, 136.450, and 136.475 MHz are designated for flight information services-broadcast (FIS-B) and may not be used by aircraft for transmission.

(ee) The frequency 121.95 MHz is authorized for air-to-ground and air-to-air communications for aircraft up to 13000 feet above mean sea level (AMSL) within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(ff) The frequency 978 MHz is authorized for Universal Access Transceiver data transmission.

(gg) (1) The frequency 120.650 MHz is authorized for air-to-air communications for aircraft over and within five nautical miles of the shoreline of the Hawaiian Island of Maui.

(2) The frequency 121.950 MHz is authorized for air-to-air use for aircraft over and within five nautical miles of the shoreline of the Hawaiian Island of Molokai.

(3) The frequency 122.850 MHz is authorized for air-to-air use for aircraft over and within five nautical miles of the shoreline of the Hawaiian Island of Oahu.

(4) The frequency 122.850 MHz is authorized for aircraft over and within five nautical miles of the shoreline of the Hawaiian Island of Hawaii when aircraft are south and east of the 215 degree radial of very high frequency omni-directional radio range of Hilo International Airport.

(5) The frequency 127.050 MHz is authorized for air-to-air use for aircraft over and within five nautical miles of the shoreline of the Hawaiian Island of Hawaii when aircraft are north and west of the 215 degree radial of very high frequency omni-directional radio range of Hilo International Airport.

(6) The frequency 127.050 MHz is authorized for air-to-air use for aircraft over and within five nautical miles of the Hawaiian Island of Kauai.

(hh) (1) The frequency 121.95 MHz is authorized for air-to-air communications for aircraft within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(2) The frequency 122.775 MHz is authorized for air-to-air communications for aircraft within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(3) The frequency 123.30 MHz is authorized for air-to-air communications for aircraft within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(4) The frequency 123.50 MHz is authorized for air-to-air communications for aircraft within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(5) The frequency 123.50 MHz is authorized for air-to-air communications for aircraft within the area bounded by the following coordinates (all coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):
