
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Aircraft Stations
###### ยง 87.187 Frequencies.

(a) Frequencies used for air-ground Communications are listed in subpart E. Aircraft stations may use frequencies assigned to Government or non-Government aeronautical stations or radionavigation land stations if the communications are within the aeronautical or radionavigation land station scope of service.

(b) 410 kHz is the international direction-finding frequency for use outside the continental United States.

(c) 457 kHz is an authorized working frequency for flights over the high seas.

(d) 500 kHz an international calling and distress frequency for aircraft on flights over the high seas. Except for distress, urgency or safety messages an aircraft station must not transmit on 500 kHz during the silence periods for three minutes twice each hour beginning at x h. 15 and x h.45 Coordinated Universal Time (u.t.c.).

(e) The frequency 2182 khz is an international distress and calling frequency for use by ship, aircraft and survival craft stations. Aircraft stations must use J3E emission when operating on 2182 kHz and communicating with domestic public and private coast stations. The emission H3E may be used when communicating with foreign coast and ship stations.

(f) The frequencies 3023 kHz, 5680 kHz, 122.900 MHz and 123.100 MHz are authorized for use by aircraft engaged in seach and rescue activities in accordance with subpart M. These frequencies may be used for air-air and air-ground communications.

(g) The frequency 4125 kHz may be used for distress and safety communications between aircraft and ship and coast maritime mobile stations.

(h) The frequency 8364.0 kHz is authorized for use of survival craft for search and rescue communications with stations in the maritime mobile service.

(i) The frequencies in the band 121.975-122.675 MHz are authorized for use by private aircraft of air traffic control operations.

(1) The frequencies 122.00 and 122.050 MHz are authorized for use by air carrier and private aircraft stations for enroute flight advisory service (EFAS) provided by the FAA;

(2) The frequency 122.100 MHz is authorized for use by air carrier aircraft stations for air traffic control operations at locations in Alaska where other frequencies are not available for air traffic control.

(j) The frequency 122.750 MHz is authoried for use by private fixed wing aircraft for air-air communications. The frequency 123.025 MHz is authorized for use by helicopters for air-air Communications.

(k) The frequencies 121.500 MHz and 243.000 MHz are emergency and distress frequences available for use by survival craft stations, emergency locator transmitters and equipment used for survival pruposes. Use of 121.500 MHz and 243.00 MHz shall be limited to transmission of signals and communications for survival purposes. Type A2A, A3E or A3N emission may be employed, except in the case of emergency locator transmitters where A3E, A3X and NON are permitted.

(l) The frequencies 156.300, 156.375, 156,400, 156,425, 156.450, 156.625, 156.800 156.900 and 157.425 MHz may be used by aircraft stations to communicate with ship stations in accordance with part 80 and the following conditions:

(1) The altitude of aircraft stations must not exceed 300 meters (1,000 feet), except for reconnaissance aircraft participating in icebreaking operations where an altitude of 450 meters (1,500 feet) is allowed;

(2) Aircraft station transmitter power must not exceed five watts;

(3) The frequency 156.300 MHz may be used for safety purposes only. The frequency 156.800 MHz may be used for distress, safety and calling purposes only.

(4) Except in the Great Lakes and along the St. Lawrence Seaway the frequency 157.425 MHz is available for communications with commerical fishing vessels.

(5) The frequency 156.375 MHz cannot be used in the New Orleans, LA, VTS protection area. No harmful interference shall be caused to the VTS.

(m) The frequency 406.0-406.1 MHz is an emergency and distress frequency available for use by emergency locator transmitters. Use of this frequency must be limited to transmission of distress and safety communications.

(n) The frequency band 960-1215 MHz is for the use of airborne electronic aids to air navigation and directly associated land stations.

(o) The frequency band 1300-1350 MHz is for surveillance radar stations and associated airborne transponders.
