
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Aeronautical Enroute Stations, Aeronautical Fixed Stations, and Aircraft Data Link Land Test Stations
###### Aeronautical Enroute Stations
####### ยง 87.263 Frequencies.
######## Domestic VHF service.

(a)(1) Frequencies in the 128.8125-132.125 MHz and 136.4875-137.00 MHz bands are available to serve domestic routes, except that the frequency 136.750 MHz is available only to aeronautical enroute stations located at least 288 kilometers (180 miles) from the Gulf of Mexico shoreline (outside the Gulf of Mexico region). The frequencies 136.900 MHz, 136.925 MHz, 136.950 MHz and 136.975 MHz are available to serve domestic and international routes. Frequency assignments may be based on either 8.33 kHz or 25 kHz spacing. Use of these frequencies must be compatible with existing operations and must be in accordance with pertinent international treaties and agreements.

(2) A system or network of interconnected enroute stations may employ offset carrier techniques on the frequencies listed in paragraph (a)(1). The carrier frequencies of the individual transmitters must not be offset by more than +/-8kHz.

(3) The frequencies 122.825 and 122.875 MHz are available for assignment to enroute stations which provide local area service to aircraft approaching or departing a particular airport. These frequencies will be assigned without regard to the restrictions contained in ยง 87.261 (c) and (d). Only organizations operating aircraft with a maximum capacity of 56 passengers or 8,200 kg (18,000 lbs) cargo will be authorized use of these enroute frequencies.

(4) In Alaska, the frequencies 131.500, 131.600, 131.800 and 131.900 MHz may be assigned to aeronautical enroute stations without regard to the restrictions contained in ยง 87.261 (c) and (d).

(5) The frequency 136.750 MHz is available in the Gulf of Mexico Region to serve domestic routes over the Gulf of Mexico and adjacent coastal areas. Assignment of this frequency in the Gulf of Mexico Region shall be to licensees first licensed on this frequency in the Gulf of Mexico Region prior to January 1, 1994, their successors and assigns, and is not subject to the conditions in ยง 87.261(c) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section. For the purpose of this paragraph, the Gulf of Mexico Region is defined as an area bounded on the east, north, and west by a line 288 km (180 miles) from the Gulf of Mexico shore line. Inland stations must be located within forty-eight kilometers (30 miles) of the Gulf of Mexico shore line.
