
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Flight Test Stations
###### ยง 87.303 Frequencies.

(a) These frequencies are available for assignment to flight test land and aircraft stations:

(b) These additional frequencies are available for assignment only to flight test stations of aircraft manufacturers:

(c) These frequencies are available for equipment test, emergency and backup use with aircraft beyond the range of VHF propagation. Either H2B, J3E, J7B or J9W emission may be used.

Frequencies (carrier) available kHz:

(d) Aeronautical mobile telemetry (AMT) operations are conducted in the 1435-1525 MHz, 2345-2395 MHz, and 5091-5150 MHz bands on a co-equal basis with U.S. Government stations.

(1) Frequencies in the 1435-1525 MHz and 2360-2395 MHz bands are assigned in the mobile service primarily for aeronautical telemetry and associated telecommand operations for flight testing of aircraft and missiles, or their major components. Until January 1, 2020, the 2345-2360 MHz band is also available to licensees holding a valid authorization on April 23, 2015 for these purposes on a secondary basis. Permissible uses of these bands include telemetry and associated telecommand operations associated with the launching and reentry into the Earth's atmosphere, as well as any incidental orbiting prior to reentry, of objects undergoing flight tests. In the 1435-1525 MHz band, the following frequencies are shared on a co-equal basis with flight telemetering mobile stations: 1444.5, 1453.5, 1501.5, 1515.5, and 1524.5 MHz. In the 2360-2395 MHz band, the following frequencies may be assigned for telemetry and associated telecommand operations of expendable and re-usable launch vehicles, whether or not such operations involve flight testing: 2364.5, 2370.5 and 2382.5 MHz. All other mobile telemetry uses of the 2360-2395 MHz band shall be on a non-interfering and unprotected basis to the above uses.

(2) Frequencies in the 5091-5150 MHz band are assigned in the aeronautical mobile service on a primary basis for flight testing of aircraft. AMT use of these frequencies is restricted to aircraft stations transmitting to aeronautical stations (AMT ground stations) in the flight test areas listed in 47 CFR 2.106, footnote US111.

(3) The authorized bandwidths for stations that operate in the 1435-1525 MHz, 2345-2395 MHz, or 5091-5150 MHz bands are normally 1, 3 or 5 MHz. Applications for greater bandwidths will be considered in accordance with the provisions of ยง 87.135. Each assignment will be centered on a frequency between 1435.5 MHz and 1524.5 MHz, between 2345.5 MHz and 2394.5 MHz, or between 5091.5 MHz and 5149.5 MHz, with 1 MHz channel spacing.

(4) Frequencies in the bands 1435-1525 MHz are also available for low power auxiliary station use on a secondary basis.

(e) 121.500 MHz: Emergency and distress only.

(f) Frequency assignments for Flight Test VHF Stations may be based on either 8.33 kHz or 25 kHz spacing. Assignable frequencies include the interstitial frequencies 8.33 kHz from the VHF frequencies listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Each 8.33 kHz interstitial frequency is subject to the same eligibility criteria and limitations as the nearest frequency listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
