
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart Q - Stations in the Radiodetermination Service
###### § 87.483 Audio visual warning systems.

An audio visual warning system (AVWS) is a radar-based obstacle avoidance system. AVWS activates obstruction lighting and transmits VHF audible warnings to alert pilots of potential collisions with land-based obstructions. The AVWS operations are limited to locations where natural and man-made obstructions exist. The continuously operating radar calculates the location, direction and groundspeed of nearby aircraft that enter one of two warning zones reasonably established by the licensee. As aircraft enter the first warning zone, the AVWS activates obstruction lighting. If the aircraft continues toward the obstacle and enters the second warning zone, the VHF radio transmits an audible warning describing the obstacle.

(a) Radiodetermination (radar) frequencies. Frequencies authorized under § 87.475(b)(8) of this chapter are available for use by an AVWS. The frequency coordination requirements in § 87.475(a) of this chapter apply.

(b) VHF audible warning frequencies. Frequencies authorized under § 87.187(j), § 87.217(a), § 87.241(b), and § 87.323(b) (excluding 121.950 MHz) of this chapter are available for use by an AVWS. Multiple frequencies may be authorized for an individual station, depending on need and the use of frequencies assigned in the vicinity of a proposed AVWS facility. Use of these frequencies is subject to the following limitations:

(1) The output power shall not exceed -3 dBm watts for each frequency authorized.

(2) The antenna used in transmitting the audible warnings must be omnidirectional with a maximum gain equal to or lower than a half-wave centerfed dipole above 30 degrees elevation, and a maximum gain of + 5 dBi from horizontal up to 30 degrees elevation.

(3) The audible warning shall not exceed two seconds in duration. No more than six audible warnings may be transmitted in a single transmit cycle, which shall not exceed 12 seconds in duration. An interval of at least twenty seconds must occur between transmit cycles.
