
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 87 - AVIATION SERVICES
##### Subpart Q - Stations in the Radiodetermination Service
###### ยง 87.475 Frequencies.
####### Frequencies available for radionavigation land stations.

(b)(1) LORAN-C is a long range navigation system which operates in the 90-110 kHz band.

(2) Radiobeacon stations enable an aircraft station to determine bearing or direction in relation to the radiobeacon station. Radiobeacons operate in the bands 190-285 kHz; 325-435 kHz; 510-525 kHz; and 525-535 kHz. Radiobeacons may be authorized, primarily for off-shore use, in the band 525-535 kHz on a non-interference basis to travelers information stations.

(3) Aeronautical marker beacon stations radiate a vertical distinctive pattern on 75 MHz which provides position information to aircraft.

(4) The following table lists the specific frequencies in the 108.100-111.950 MHz band which are assignable to localizer stations with simultaneous radiotelephone channels and their associated glide path station frequency from the 328.600-335.400 MHz band.

(5) VHF omni-range (VOR) stations are to be assigned frequencies in the 112.050-117.950 MHz band (50 kHz channel spacing) and the following frequencies in the 108-112 MHz band:

(6) The band 960-1215 MHz is available for the use of land stations and associated airborne electronic aids to air navigation. When distance measuring equipment (DME) is intended to operate with a single VHF navigation station in the 108-117.975 MHz band, the DME operating channel must be paired with the VHF channel as shown in the following table:

(7) 978.0 MHz is authorized for Universal Access Transceiver service.

(8) 1300-1350 MHz: The use of this band is restricted to surveillance radar stations and associated airborne transponders.

(9) 1559-1626.5 MHz: The use of this band is limited to airborne electronic aids to air navigation and any associated land stations.

(10) 2700-2900 MHz: Non-Government land-based radars may be licensed. U.S. Government coordination is required. Applicants must demonstrate a need for the service which the Government is not prepared to render.

(11) 5000-5250 MHz: This band is to be used for the operation of the international standard system (microwave landing system).

(12) 9000-9200 MHz: This band is available to land-based radars. Stations operating in this band may receive interference from stations operating in the radiolocation service.

(13) 15,400-15,700 MHz: This band is available for use of land stations associated with airborne electronic aids to air navigation.

(14) 24,250-25,250, 32,300-33,400 MHz: In these bands, land-based radionavigation aids are permitted where they operate with airborne radionavigation devices.
