
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Interest, Penalties, Administrative Costs and Other Sanctions
####### ยง 1.1940 Assessment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section or ยง 1.1941, the Commission shall charge interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. The Commission will mail, hand-deliver, or use other forms of transmission, including facsimile telecopier service, a written notice to the debtor, at the debtor's CORES contact address (see section 1.8002(b)) explaining the Commission's requirements concerning these charges except where these requirements are included in a contractual or repayment agreement, or otherwise provided in the Commission's rules, as may be amended from time to time. These charges shall continue to accrue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved through compromise, termination, or waiver of the charges. This provision is not intended to modify or limit the terms of any contract, note, or security agreement from the debtor, or to modify or limit the Commission's rights under its rules with regard to the notice or the parties' agreement to waive notice.

(b) The Commission shall charge interest on debts owed the United States as follows:

(1) Interest shall accrue from the date of delinquency, or as otherwise provided by the terms of any contract, note, or security agreement, regulation, or law.

(2) Unless otherwise established in a contract, note, or security agreement, repayment agreement, or by statute, the rate of interest charged shall be the rate established annually by the Treasury in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, an agency may charge a higher rate of interest if it reasonably determines that a higher rate is necessary to protect the rights of the United States. The agency should document the reason(s) for its determination that the higher rate is necessary.

(3) The rate of interest, as initially charged, shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. When a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, the agency may require payment of interest at a new rate that reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time the new agreement is executed. Interest shall not be compounded, that is, interest shall not be charged on interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section. If, however, a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement, charges that accrued but were not collected under the defaulted agreement shall be added to the principal under the new repayment agreement.
