
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### Interest, Penalties, Administrative Costs and Other Sanctions
####### ยง 1.1940 Assessment.
######## administrative debt,Administrative debt

(e) The Commission may increase anby the cost of living adjustment in lieu of charging interest and penalties under this section.includes, but is not limited to, a debt based on fines, penalties, and overpayments, but does not include a debt based on the extension of Government credit, such as those arising from loans and loan guaranties. The cost of living adjustment is the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the adjustment exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year in which the debt was determined or last adjusted. Increases to administrative debts shall be computed annually. Agencies should use this alternative only when there is a legitimate reason to do so, such as when calculating interest and penalties on a debt would be extremely difficult because of the age of the debt.

(f) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received by the agency shall be applied first to outstanding penalties and administrative cost charges, second to accrued interest, and third to the outstanding principal.

(g) The Commission will waive the collection of interest and administrative charges imposed pursuant to this section on the portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue. The Commission will not extend this 30-day period except for good cause shown of extraordinary and compelling circumstances, completely documented and supported in writing, submitted and received before the expiration of the first 30-day period. The Commission may, on good cause shown of extraordinary and compelling circumstances, completely documented and supported in writing, waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs charged under this section, in whole or in part, without regard to the amount of the debt, either under the criteria set forth in these standards for the compromise of debts, or if the agency determines that collection of these charges is against equity and good conscience or is not in the best interest of the United States.

(h) The Commission retains the common law right to impose interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717.
