
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Public Safety Radio Pool
###### ยง 90.20 Public Safety Pool.
####### Persons with disabilities.

(v)The initial application from a person claiming eligibility under this paragraph shall be accompanied by a statement from a physician attesting to the condition of the applicant or the applicant's child (or ward in case of guardianship).

(A) Any person having a hearing deficiency such that average hearing threshold levels are 90 dB above ANSI (American National Standards Institute) 1969 or ISO (International Standards Organization) 1964 levels and such other persons who submit medical certification of similar hearing deficiency.

(B) Any person having visual acuity corrected to no better than 20/200 in the better eye or having a field of vision of less than 20 degrees.

(C) Any person, who, through loss of limbs or motor function, is confined to a wheelchair, or is non-ambulatory.

(D) Any person actively awaiting an organ transplant.

(E) Parents or guardians of persons under 18 years eligible under paragraphs (a)(2)(v)(A), (a)(2)(v)(B), (a)(2)(v)(C) of this section, or institutions devoted to the care or training of those persons.

(vi) A veterinarian, veterinary clinic, or a school of veterinary medicine for the transmission of messages pertaining to the care and treatment of animals. Each licensee may be authorized to operate one base station and two mobile units. Additional base stations or mobile units will be authorized only on a showing of need.

(vii) Organizations established for disaster relief purposes having an emergency radio communications plan for the transmission of communications relating to the safety of life or property, the establishment and maintenance of temporary relief facilities, and the alleviation of the emergency situation during periods of actual or impending emergency, or disaster, and until substantially normal conditions are restored. In addition, the stations may be used for training exercises, incidental to the emergency communications plan, and for operational communications of the disaster relief organization or its chapter affiliates. The initial application from a disaster relief organization shall be accompanied by a copy of the charter or other authority under which the organization was established and a copy of its communications plan. The plan shall fully describe the operation of the radio facilities and describe the method of integration into other communications facilities which normally would be available to assist in the alleviation of the emergency condition.

(viii) Persons or organizations operating school buses on a regular basis over regular routes for the transmission of messages pertaining to either the efficient operation of the school bus service or the safety or general welfare of the students they are engaged in transporting. Each school bus operator may be authorized to operate one base station and a number of mobile units not in excess of the total of the number of buses and maintenance vehicles regularly engaged in the school bus operation. Additional base stations or mobile units will be authorized only in exceptional circumstances when the applicant can show a specific need.

(ix) Persons or organizations operating beach patrols having responsibility for life-saving activities for the transmission of messages required for the safety of life or property.

(x) Persons or organizations maintaining establishment in isolated areas where public communications facilities are not available and where the use of radio is the only feasible means of establishing communication with a center of population, or other point from which emergency assistance might be obtained if needed, for the transmission of messages only during an actual or impending emergency endangering life, health or property for the transmission of essential communications arising from the emergency. The transmission of routine or non-emergency communications is strictly prohibited.
