
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Public Safety Radio Pool
###### § 90.20 Public Safety Pool.
####### Provided,

(52) In addition to agencies responsible for forest fire prevention, detection, and suppression, this frequency may be assigned to conservation agencies which do not have forest fire responsibilities on a secondary basis to any U.S. Government stations,That such assignment is necessary to permit mobile relay operation by such agencies.

(53) This frequency is subject to the provisions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section.

(54) For FM transmitters, the sum of the highest modulating frequency in hertz and the amount of the frequency deviation or swing in hertz may not exceed 1700 Hz and the maximum deviation may not exceed 1.2 kHz. For AM transmitters, the highest modulating frequency may not exceed 1200 Hz. The carrier frequency must be maintained within .0005 percent of the center of the frequency band, and the authorized bandwidth may not exceed 3 kHz.

(55) Subpart T of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 220-222 MHz band.

(56) The frequencies available for use at fixed stations in this band and the requirements for assignment are set forth in § 90.261. Operation on these frequencies is secondary to stations in the Industrial/Business Pool where they are assigned for land mobile operations.

(57) This frequency is available for systems first licensed prior to August 18, 1995. No new systems will be authorized after August 18, 1995, but prior authorized systems may be modified, expanded, and renewed.

(58) This frequency is available for systems first licensed prior to March 31, 1980, for radio call box communications related to safety on highways in accordance with the provisions of § 90.241(c). No new systems will be authorized of this nature, but systems authorized prior to March 31, 1980 may be modified, expanded, and renewed.

(59) The continuous carrier mode of operation may be used for telemetry transmission on this frequency.

(60) Paging licensees as of March 20, 1991, may continue to operate on a primary basis until January 14, 1998.

(61) Highway radio call box operations first licensed prior to March 31, 1980 on this frequency may continue to operate in accordance with paragraph (d)(58) of this section.

(62) This frequency is also authorized for use by biomedical telemetry stations. F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, F3E, G1B, G1D, G2B, G2D, and G3E emissions may be authorized for biomedical transmissions.

(63) Available for medical services mobile operations in the Public Safety Pool in accordance with paragraph (d)(61) of this section.

(64) Use of this frequency is on a secondary basis, limited to 2 watts output power and subject to the provisions of 90.267(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(3), and (h)(4).

(65) This frequency is primarily authorized for use in the dispatch of medical care vehicles and personnel for the rendition or delivery of medical services. This frequency may also be assigned for intra-system and inter-system mutual assistance purposes. For uniformity in usage these frequency pairs may be referred to by channel name as follows:

(66) For applications for new radio systems, the thirty-two frequency pairs listed in paragraph (d)(66)(i) of this section will be assigned in a block for shared operation under § 90.20(a)(1)(iii) or § 90.20(a)(2)(xiii) subject to the following:

(i) For uniformity in usage, these frequency pairs may be referred to by channel name as follows:

(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(66)(iv) and (v) of this section, mobile or portable stations licensed prior to July 6, 2000, must employ equipment that is both wired and equipped to transmit/receive, respectively, on each of the following MED frequency pairs with transmitters operated on the 468 MHz frequencies: MED-1, MED-2, MED-3, MED-4, MED-5, MED-6, MED-7, and MED-8.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(66)(v) and (vi) of this section, mobile or portable stations licensed on or after July 6, 2000, must employ equipment that is both wired and equipped to transmit/receive, respectively, on each of the following MED frequency pairs with transmitters operated on the 468 MHz frequencies: MED-1, MED-12, MED-2, MED-22, MED-3, MED-32, MED-4, MED-42, MED-5, MED-52, MED-6 MED-62, MED-7, MED-72, MED-8, and MED-82.

(iv) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(66)(v) and (vi) of this section, mobile or portable stations licensed on or after January 1, 2006, must employ equipment that is both wired and equipped to transmit/receive, respectively, on each of these MED frequency pairs with transmitters operated on the 468 MHz frequencies.

(v) Portable (hand-held) units operated with a maximum output power of 2.5 watts are exempted from the multi-channel equipment requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(66)(ii), (d)(66)(iii), and (d)(66)(iv) of this section.

(vi) Stations located in areas above line A, as defined in § 90.7 will be required to meet multi-channel equipment requirements only for those frequencies up to the number specified in paragraphs (d)(66)(ii), (d)(66)(iii), and (d)(66)(iv) of this section that have been assigned and coordinates with Canada in accordance with the applicable U.S.-Canada agreement.

(67) This frequency is authorized for use only for operations in biomedical telemetry stations. F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, F3E, G1B, G1D, G2B, G2D and G3E emissions may be authorized. Entities eligible in the Public Safety Pool may use this frequency on a secondary basis for any other permissible communications consistent with § 90.20(a)(1)(iii) or § 90.20(a)(2)(xiii).

(68) Subpart L of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band.

(69) Subpart S of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 806-817 MHz and 851-862 MHz bands.

(70) Assignment of frequencies above 928 MHz for operational-fixed stations is governed by part 101 of this chapter.

(71) Frequencies in this band are available only for one-way paging operations in accordance with § 90.494.

(72) This frequency band is available to stations in this service subject to the provisions of § 90.259.

(73) Available only on a shared basis with stations in other services, and subject to no protection from interference due to the operation of industrial, scientific, or medical (ISM) devices. In the band 2483.5-2500 MHz, no applications for new stations or modification to existing stations to increase the number of transmitters will be accepted. Existing licensees as of July 25, 1985, and licensees whose initial applications were filed on or before July 25, 1985, are grandfathered and their operations are on a co-primary basis with the mobile-satellite and radiodetermination-satellite services, and in the segment 2495-2500 MHz, their operations are also on a co-primary basis with part 27 fixed and mobile except aeronautical mobile service operations.

(74) This band is available for Digital Termination Systems and for associated internodal links in the Point-to-Point Microwave Radio Service. No new licenses will be issued under this subpart but current licenses will be renewed.

(75) Appropriate frequencies in the band 2000-3000 kHz which are designated in part 80 of this chapter as available to Public Ship Stations for telephone communications with Public Coast Stations may be assigned on a secondary basis to fixed Stations in the Public Safety Pool for communication with Public Coast Stations only, provided such stations are located in the United States and the following conditions are met:

(i) That such fixed station is established pursuant to the eligibility provisions of (§ 90.47) and that the isolated area involved is an island or other location not more than 480 km (300 statute miles) removed from the desired;

(ii) That evidence is submitted showing that an arrangement has been made with the coast station licensee for the handling of emergency communications permitted by § 80.453 of this chapter and § 90.20(a)(2)(x)(C); and

(iii) That operation of the Public Safety fixed station shall at no time conflict with any provision of part 80 of this chapter and further, that such operation in general shall conform to the practices employed by Public Ship Stations for radiotelephone communication with the same Public Coast Station.

(76) This frequency is authorized only for communications between medical facilities vehicles and personnel related to medical supervision and instruction for the treatment and transport of patients in the rendition or delivery of medical services. F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, G1B, G1D, G2B, F3E and G3E emissions are authorized. Public Safety entities may use this frequency on a secondary basis for any other permissible communications consistent with § 90.20(a)(1)(iii) or § 90.20(a)(2)(xiii).

(77) Subpart R of this part contains rules for assignment of channels in the 758-775 MHz and 788-805 MHz bands.

(78) Paging operations are not permitted on this frequency.

(79) This frequency will be secondary to marine port operations within 161 km (100 miles) of Los Angeles, Calif. (coordinates 34&#xB0;03&#x2032;15&#x2033; N and 118&#xB0;14&#x2032;28&#x2033; W).

(80) After December 7, 2000 this frequency is available primarily for public safety interoperability only communications. Stations licensed prior to December 7, 2000 may continue to use this frequency on a co-primary basis until January 1, 2005. After January 1, 2005, all operations will be secondary to co-channel interoperability communications. Analog FM emission shall exclusively be used for operation on the VHF and UHF interoperability channels.

(81) After December 7, 2000 new stations will only be licensed with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 1125 kHz. Licensees authorized prior to December 7, 2000 may continue to use bandwidths wider that 1125 kHz on a co-primary basis until January 1, 2005. After January 1, 2005, all stations operating with an authorized bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz will be secondary to adjacent channel interoperability operations.

(82) This frequency is reserved for assignment only in support of, and on a secondary basis to, nationwide interoperability use.

(83) This interoperability frequency is dedicated for the express purpose of nationwide interoperability calling.

(84) Operation on this frequency is subject to the low power provisions of § 90.267. This frequency is assigned to the Public Safety Group in the low power pool.

(85) Subpart Y of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 4940-4990 MHz band.

(86) Subpart M of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 5850-5925 MHz band.

(87) The use the frequencies 150.775 MHz and 150.790 MHz are limited to a transmitter output power of 100 watts Effective Radiated Power (ERP) as of May 27, 2005.

(88) Use of this frequency is limited to stations licensed as of May 27, 2005.

(89) As of March 25, 2007, the FCC will cease to issue licenses for new stations in the fixed and mobile services in the following bands: 5900-5950 kHz, 7300-7350 kHz and 9400-9500 kHz. As of March 29, 2009, the FCC will cease to issue licenses for new stations in the fixed and mobile services in the band 7350-7400 kHz and, in the U.S. Pacific insular areas in Region 3, the band 7400-7450 kHz. Stations licensed as of March 25, 2007 in the bands 5900-5950 kHz, 7300-7350 kHz and 9400-9500 kHz and as of March 29, 2009 for the band 7350-7400 kHz in Region 2 and the band 7350-7450 kHz in Region 3 shall:

(90) The maximum effective radiated power (ERP) may not exceed 2 watts for mobile stations, and 5 watts for mobile repeater stations and hand-carried transmitters that communicate directly with mobile repeater stations.

(91) This frequency is available on a shared basis both for remote control and telemetry operations and for mobile repeater operations. The authorized bandwidth may not exceed 11.25 kHz.

(92) This frequency is available on a shared basis with the Industrial/Business Pool for remote control and telemetry operations. Licensees seeking primary status for the use of this frequency for mobile repeater stations and hand-carried transmitters that communicate directly with mobile repeater stations must describe the area of normal day-to-day operations either in terms of operation in a specific county or in the terms of maximum distance from a geographic center (latitude and longitude) and shall be subject to the frequency coordination requirements of § 90.175.

(93) Mobile repeaters operating on this frequency are subject to a channel loading requirement of 50 transmitter-receivers. Loading standards will be applied in terms of the number of units actually in use or to be placed in use within 8 months following authorization. A licensee will be required to show that an assigned frequency is at full capacity before it may be assigned a second or additional frequency. Channel capacity may be reached either by the requirements of a single licensee or by several users sharing a channel. Until a channel is loaded to capacity it will be available for assignment to other users in the same area.
