
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Public Safety Radio Pool
###### § 90.20 Public Safety Pool.
####### Frequencies.

(3)

(d) Explanation of assignment limitations appearing in the frequency table of paragraph (c)(3) of this section:

(1) This frequency is available for use by Travelers' Information Stations in accordance with § 90.242.

(2) The frequency is available for assignment only in accordance with a geographical assignment plan.

(3) Base stations operating on this frequency and rendering service to state police mobile units may be authorized to use a maximum output power in excess of the maximum indicated in § 90.205 but not in excess of 7500 watts: Provided, That such operation is secondary to other stations.

(4) The use of this frequency is on a secondary basis to any Canadian station.

(5) In addition to base and mobile stations, this frequency may be assigned to fixed stations on a secondary basis to base or mobile stations. Upon a showing of need, the use of a second frequency in the band 2505-3500 kHz may be made available to governmental entities through appropriate arrangements with Federal Government agencies for restricted area use on a shared basis with maximum power output, emission, and hours of operation determined on the basis of the technical conditions involved in using the selected frequency in the particular area.

(6) Only the central governments of the fifty individual States, the District of Columbia, and the insular areas of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the unincorporated territories of American Samoa, Guam and the United States Virgin Islands are eligible to be licensed to use this spectrum, and then only for disaster communications purposes. Licensees may not use this spectrum to provide operational communications circuits. See also, § 90.264.

(7) This frequency is shared with the Industrial/Business Pool.

(8) This frequency is available for assignment only in accordance with a geographical assignment plan. This frequency may be used for conservation activities on a secondary basis to any station using the frequency for forest fire prevention, detection, and suppression.

(9) This frequency is reserved primarily for assignment to state licensees. Assignments to other licensees will be made only where the frequency is required for coordinated operation with the State system to which the frequency is assigned. Any request for such assignment must be supported by a statement from the State system concerned, indicating that the assignment is necessary for coordination of activities.

(10) A licensee regularly conducting two-way communication operations on this frequency may, on a secondary basis, also transmit one-way alert-paging signals to ambulance and rescue squad personnel.

(11) The maximum output power of any transmitter authorized to operate on this frequency shall not exceed 10 watts.

(12) This frequency is available in this service only to persons eligible under the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section for operation of transmitters having a maximum power output of three watts using A1A, A1D, A2B, A2D, F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, G1B, G1D, G2B, or G2D emission. This frequency is also available in the Industrial/Business Pool on a co-equal basis with the Public Safety licensees.

(13) This frequency will be assigned only for one-way paging communications to mobile receivers. Transmissions for the purpose of activating or controlling remote objects on this frequency are not authorized.

(14) The maximum output power of any transmitter authorized to operate on this frequency, after June 1, 1956, shall not exceed two watts. Licensees holding a valid authorization as of June 1, 1956, for base or mobile station operation on this frequency, with a power in excess of two watts, may continue to be authorized for such operation without regard to this power limitation.

(15) This frequency is reserved for assignment to stations for intersystem operations only: Provided, however, That licensees holding a valid authorization to use this frequency for local base or mobile operations as of June 1, 1956, may continue to be authorized for such use.

(16) This frequency is reserved primarily for assignment to state police licensees. Assignments to other police licensees will be made only where the frequency is required for coordinated operation with the state police system to which the frequency is assigned. Any request for such assignment must be supported by a statement from the state police system concerned indicating that the assignment is necessary for coordination of police activities.

(17) In the State of Alaska only, the frequency 42.40 MHz is available for assignment on a primary basis to stations in the Common Carrier Rural Radio Service utilizing meteor burst communications. The frequency may be used by private radio stations for meteor burst communications on a secondary, noninterference basis. Usage shall be in accordance with part 22 of this chapter or part 90. Stations utilizing meteor burst communications shall not cause harmful interference to stations of other radio services operating in accordance with the allocation table.

(18) No new licenses will be granted for one-way paging under § 90.487 for use on this frequency after August 1, 1980. This frequency is available to persons eligible for station licenses under the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section on a co-equal basis with one-way paging users under § 90.487 prior to August 1, 1985, and on a primary basis after August 1, 1985. Only A1A, A1D, A2B, A2D, F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, G1B, G1D, G2B, G2D emissions and power not exceeding 10 watts will be authorized. Antennas having gain greater than 0 dBd will not be authorized. Transmissions shall not exceed two seconds duration.

(19) This frequency is reserved for assignment to stations in this service for intersystem operations only and these operations must be primarily base-mobile communications.

(20) In the State of Alaska only, the frequency 45.90 MHz is available for assignment on a primary basis to private land mobile radio stations utilizing meteor burst communications. The frequency may be used by common carrier stations for meteor burst communications on a secondary, noninterference basis. Usage shall be in accordance with part 22 of this chapter and part 90. Stations utilizing meteor burst communications shall not cause harmful interference to stations of other radio services operating in accordance with the allocation table.

(21) This frequency will be assigned only in accordance with a geographical assignment plan and is reserved primarily for assignment to Highway maintenance systems operated by states. The use of this frequency by other Highway maintenance licensees will be authorized only where such use is necessary to coordinate activities with the particular state to which the frequency is assigned. Any request for such use must be supported by a statement from the state concerned.

(22) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d)(21) of this section, this frequency may be used by any licensees in the Public Safety Pool without a separate license for the purpose of operating self-powered vehicle detectors for traffic control and safety purposes, on a secondary basis, in accordance with § 90.269.

(23) Thus frequency is reserved for assignment only to national organizations eligible for disaster relief operations under paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section.

(24) Assignment and use of frequencies in the band 72-76 MHz are governed by § 90.257 for operational-fixed stations and by § 90.241 for emergency call box operations. Specific frequencies are listed at § 90.257(a)(1).

(25) This frequency is available to Public Safety Pool licensees for fire call box operations on a shared basis in Industrial/Business Pool. All communications on this frequency must be conducted with persons or organizations charged with specific fire protection responsibility. All operations on this frequency are subject to the provisions of § 90.257(b).

(26) Assignment of frequencies in this band are subject to the provisions of § 90.173. Licensees as of August 18, 1995 who operate systems in the 150-170 MHz band that are 2.5 kHz removed from regularly assignable frequencies may continue to operate on a secondary, non-interference basis after August 1, 2003.

(27) This frequency will be assigned with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz. In the 450-470 MHz band, secondary telemetry operations pursuant to § 90.238(e) will be authorized on this frequency.

(28) This frequency is not available for assignment in this service in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands.

(29) This frequency is removed by 22.5 kHz from frequencies assigned to other radio services. Utilization of this frequency may result in, as well as be subject to, interference under certain operating conditions. In considering the use of this frequency, adjacent channel operations should be taken into consideration. If interference occurs, the licensee may be required to take the necessary steps to resolve the problem. See § 90.173(b).

(30) This frequency will be authorized a channel bandwidth of 25 kHz.

(31) The maximum output power of any transmitter authorized to operate on this frequency shall not exceed 100 watts. Stations authorized prior to July 15, 1992 for fixed operations will be permitted to continue such operations, but at a maximum transmitter power output of 10 watts.

(32) The maximum effective radiated power (ERP) may not exceed 20 watts for fixed stations and 2 watts for mobile stations. The height of the antenna system may not exceed 15.24 meters (50 ft.) above ground. All such operation is on a secondary basis to adjacent channel land mobile operations.

(33) For FM transmitters, the sum of the highest modulating frequency in Hertz and the amount of the frequency deviation or swing in Hertz may not exceed 2800 Hz and the maximum deviation may not exceed 2.5 kHz. For AM transmitters, the highest modulation frequency may not exceed 2000 Hz. The carrier frequency must be maintained within .0005 percent of the center of the frequency band, and the authorized bandwidth may not exceed 6 kHz.

(34) This frequency is available on a shared basis with the Industrial/Business Pool for remote control and telemetry operations.

(35) Operational fixed stations must employ directional antennas having a front-to-back ratio of at least 20 dB. Omnidirectional antennas having unity gain may be employed for stations communicating with at least three receiving locations separated by 160 degrees of azimuth.

(36) The maximum power output of the transmitter may not exceed 50 watts for fixed stations and 1 watt for mobile stations. A1A, A1D, A2B, A2D, F1B, F1D, F2D, G1B, G1D, G2B, or G2D emission may be authorized.

(37) Use of this frequency is limited to stations located at least 120.7 km (75 miles) from the center of any urbanized area of 200,000 or more population (U.S. Census of Population 1970). Operation is on a secondary basis to licensees of the Industrial/Business Pool.

(38) [Reserved]

(39) In addition to other authorized uses, the use of F1B, F1D, F2B or F2D emission is permitted on this frequency for the operation of biomedical telemetry systems except in the following geographic locations:

(i) New York, N.Y.-Northeastern New Jersey; Los Angeles-Long Beach, Calif.; Chicago, Ill.-Northwestern Indiana; Philadelphia, Pa.-N.J.; Detroit, Mich.; San Francisco-Oakland, Calif.; Boston, Mass.; Washington, D.C.-Md.-Va.; Cleveland, Ohio; St. Louis, Mo.-Ill.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn.; Houston, Tex.; Baltimore, Md.; Dallas, Tex.; Milwaukee, Wis.; Seattle-Everett, Wash.; Miami, Fla.; San Diego, Calif.; Atlanta, Ga.; Cincinnati, Ohio-Ky.; Kansas City, Mo.-Kans.; Buffalo, N.Y.; Denver, Colo.; San Jose, Calif.; New Orleans, La.; Phoenix, Ariz.; Portland, Oreg.-Wash.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Providence-Pawtucket-Warwick, R.I.-Mass.; Columbus, Ohio; San Antonio, Tex.; Louisville, Ky.-Ind.; Dayton, Ohio; Forth Worth, Tex.; Norfolk-Portsmouth, Va.; Memphis, Tenn.-Miss.; Sacramento, Calif.; Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood, Fla.; Rochester, N.Y.; Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla;

(ii) The continuous carrier mode of operation may be used for telemetry transmissions on this frequency for periods up to two-minutes duration; following which there must be a break in the carrier for at least a one-minute period; and

(iii) Geographical coordinates for the above-listed urbanized areas may be found at Table 1 of § 90.635.

(40) This frequency may be designated by common consent as an intersystem mutual assistance frequency under an area-wide medical communications plan.

(41) This frequency is available nationwide for use in police emergency communications networks operated under statewide law enforcement emergency communications plans.

(42) This frequency may not be assigned within 161 km (100 miles) of New Orleans, La. (coordinates 29&#xB0;56&#x2032;53&#x2033; N and 90&#xB0;04&#x2032;10&#x2033; W).

(43) [Reserved]

(44) This frequency will be assigned with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 6 kHz.

(45) Operations on this frequency are limited to 30 watts transmitter output power.

(46) This frequency is shared with the Industrial/Business Pool in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.

(47) This frequency may be assigned to stations in the Public Safety Pool in accordance with the provisions of § 90.265.

(48) Frequencies in this band will be assigned only for transmitting hydrological or meteorological data or for low power wireless microphones in accordance with the provisions of § 90.265.

(49) This frequency may be assigned only for forest firefighting and conservation activities in accordance with the provisions of § 90.265.

(50)-(51) [Reserved]
