
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Public Safety Radio Pool
###### § 90.20 Public Safety Pool.
####### Additional frequencies available.

(e)In addition to the frequencies shown in the frequency table of this section, the following frequencies are available in this service. (See also § 90.253.)

(1) Substitution of frequencies available below 25 MHz may be made in accordance with the provisions of § 90.263.

(2) Frequencies in the band 73.0-74.6 MHz may be assigned to stations authorized their use on or before December 1, 1961, but no new stations will be authorized in this band, nor will expansion of existing systems be permitted. See also § 90.257.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Frequencies in the 421-430 MHz band are available in the Detroit, Mich., Cleveland, Ohio and Buffalo, N.Y. areas in accordance with the rules in §§ 90.273 through 90.281.

(5) A Police licensee may use transmitters on the frequencies indicated below in connection with official police activities without specific authorization from the Commission, provided that such use shall be on a secondary basis and shall not cause harmful interference to services of other licensees operating on regularly assigned frequencies, and further provided that all such use complies with the requirements of Federal, State and local laws. The provisions of § 90.429 shall not apply to transmitters authorized under this paragraph. To be eligible for operations in this manner, the transmitter must comply with all of the following requirements.

(i) In accordance with §§ 90.203 and 2.803 of this chapter, the transmitter must be of a type which has been certificated by the Commission.

(ii) The carrier frequency shall be within the bands listed below and must be maintained within 0.005 percent of the frequency of operation. Use on assigned channel center frequencies is not required.

(iii) The emitted signal shall be non-voice modulation (type PO emission).

(iv) The maximum occupied bandwidth, containing 99 percent of the radiated power, shall not exceed 2.0 kHz.

(v) The transmitter output power shall not exceed a mean power of 30 mW nor shall any peak exceed 1 watt peak power, as measured into a 50 ohm resistive load. Should the transmitter be supplied with a permanently attached antenna or should the transmitter and antenna combination be contained in a sealed unit, the following standard may be used in lieu of the above: the field strength of the fundamental signal of the transmitter and antenna combination shall not exceed 0.4 V/m mean or 2.3 V/m peak when measured at a distance of 3 meters.

(vi) The transmitter shall contain positive means to limit the transmission time to no more than 10 days. In the event of a malfunction of this positive means, the transmitter signal shall cease. The use of battery life to accomplish the transmission time limitation is permissible.

(6) The frequency 173.075 MHz is available for stolen vehicle recovery systems on a shared basis with Federal stations in the fixed and mobile services.

(i) Stolen vehicle recovery systems are limited to tracking and recovering vehicles, cargo, and hazardous materials that have been reported stolen or missing; missing or wanted persons; and individuals at risk, or individuals of interest to law enforcement, only when established boundaries are violated. Stolen vehicle recovery systems are not authorized for general purpose tracking or monitoring. Mobile units may also transmit automatic collision notifications, vehicle fire notifications, and carjacking alerts.

(ii) Any type of emission may be used within a maximum authorized bandwidth of 12.5 kHz, except that stations that operate as part of a stolen vehicle recovery system that was authorized and in operation prior to May 27, 2005 may operate with a maximum authorized bandwidth of 20 kHz until May 27, 2019. For a complete listing of emission symbols allowable under this part, see § 2.201 of this chapter.

(iii) Mobile transmitters operating on this frequency with emissions authorized in a maximum bandwidth of 12.5 kHz are limited to 5.0 watts power output. Mobile transmitters operating on this frequency with emissions authorized in a maximum bandwidth of 20 kHz are limited to 2.5 watts power output.

(iv) Base station transmitters operating on this frequency with emissions authorized in a maximum bandwidth of 12.5 kHz are limited to 300 watts ERP before February 18, 2009, and 500 watts ERP thereafter. Base station transmitters operating on this frequency with emissions authorized in a maximum bandwidth of 20 kHz are limited to 300 watts ERP.

(v) Transmissions from mobiles shall be limited to 400 milliseconds for every 10 seconds, except when a vehicle is being tracked actively transmissions are limited to 400 milliseconds for every second. Alternatively, transmissions from mobiles shall be limited to 7200 milliseconds for every 300 seconds with a maximum of six such messages in any 30 minute period.

(vi) Transmissions from base stations shall be limited to a total rate of five seconds every minute.

(vii) Any entity eligible to hold authorizations in the Public Safety Pool in accordance with §§ 90.20(a) and 90.111 of this chapter is authorized by this rule to operate mobile transmitters on this frequency. No license will be issued for mobile transmitters.

(viii) Applications for base stations operating on this frequency shall require coordination with the Federal Government. Applicants shall perform an analysis for each base station that is located within 169 km (105 miles) of a TV Channel 7 transmitter of potential interference to TV Channel 7 viewers. Applicants shall serve a copy of the analysis to the licensee of the affected TV Channel 7 transmitter upon filing the application with the Commission. Such base stations will be authorized if the applicant has limited the interference contour to include fewer than 100 residences or if the applicant:

(A) Shows that the proposed site is the only suitable location (which, at the application stage, requires a showing that the proposed site is especially well-suited to provide the proposed service);

(B) Develops a plan to control any interference caused to TV reception from operations; and

(C) Agrees to make such adjustments in the TV receivers affected as may be necessary to eliminate interference caused by its operations.

(ix) The licensee must eliminate any interference caused by its operation to TV Channel 7 reception within 30 days after notification in writing by the Commission. If this interference is not removed within this 30-day period, operation of the base station must be discontinued. The licensee is expected to help resolve all complaints of interference.

(7) Frequencies governed by § 90.35(c)(17).
