
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Public Safety Radio Pool
###### ยง 90.20 Public Safety Pool.
####### i.e.

(i) Provide evidence of frequency coordination in accordance with ยง 90.175. Public safety coordinators except the Special Emergency Coordinator are certified to coordinate applications for the channel pair 157.250 MHz/161.850 MHz (, letter symbol PX under paragraph (c)(2) of this section).

(ii) Station power, as measured at the output terminals of the transmitter, must not exceed 50 Watts for base stations and 20 Watts for mobile stations, except in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (g)(3)(vi) of this section. Antenna height (HAAT) must not exceed 122 meters (400 feet) for base stations and 4.5 meters (15 feet) for mobile stations, except in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(vi) of this section. Antenna height (HAAT) must not exceed 122 meters (400 feet) for base stations and 4.5 meters (15 feet) for mobile stations, except in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(vi) of this section. Such base and mobile channels shall not be operated on board aircraft in flight.

(iii) Frequency protection must be provided to other stations in accordance with the following guidelines for each channel and for each area and adjacent area:

(A) Protect coast stations licensed prior to July 6, 1998, by the required separations shown in Table C below.

(B) Protect stations described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, by frequency coordination in accordance ยง 90.175 of this part.

(C) Protect public safety stations granted under paragraph (g) of this section by frequency coordination in accordance with ยง 90.175 of this part.
