
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Public Safety Radio Pool
###### § 90.20 Public Safety Pool.
####### Limitation on number of frequencies assignable.

(f)Normally only two frequencies or pairs of frequencies in the paired frequency mode of operation will be assigned for mobile service operations by a single applicant in a given area. The assignment of an additional frequency or pair of frequencies will be made only upon a satisfactory showing of need, except that:

(1) Additional frequencies above 25 MHz may be assigned in connection with the operation of mobile repeaters in accordance with § 90.247 notwithstanding this limitation;

(2) The frequency 39.06 MHz may be assigned notwithstanding this limitation;

(3) Frequencies in the 25-50 MHz, 150-170 MHz, 450-512 MHz and 902-928 MHz bands may be assigned for the operation of Location and Monitoring Service (LMS) systems in accordance with the provisions of subpart M of this part, notwithstanding this limitation;

(4) A licensee of a radio station in this service may operate radio units for the purpose of determining distance, direction, speed, or position by means of a radiolocation device on any frequency available for radiolocation purposes without additional authorization from the Commission, provided type accepted equipment or equipment authorized pursuant to § 90.203(b)(4) and (b)(5) of this part is used, and all other rule provisions are satisfied. A licensee in this service may also operate, subject to all of the foregoing conditions and on a secondary basis, radio units at fixed locations and in emergency vehicles that transmit on the frequency 24.10 GHz, both unmodulated continuous wave radio signals and modulated FM digital signals for the purpose of alerting motorists to hazardous driving conditions or the presence of an emergency vehicle. Unattended and continuous operation of such transmitters will be permitted.

(5) A Police licensee may use, without special authorization from the Commission, any mobile service frequency between 40 and 952 MHz, listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, for communications in connection with physical surveillance, stakeouts, raids, and other such activities. Such use shall be on a secondary basis to operations of licensees regularly authorized on the assigned frequencies. The maximum output power that may be used for such communications is 2 watts. Transmitters, operating under this provision of the rules, shall be exempted from the station identification requirements of § 90.425. Use of frequencies not designated by a "PP" in the coordinator column of the frequency table in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, is conditional on the approval of the coordinator corresponding to each frequency. Spread spectrum transmitters may be operated on Public Safety Pool frequencies between 37 and 952 MHz, providing that they are certificated by the Commission under the provisions of § 2.803 of this chapter and § 90.203, and meet the following conditions:

(i) Frequency hopping transmitters can be operated, with a maximum output power of 2 watts, on any Public Safety Pool frequency between 37 and 952 MHz listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. At least 20 hopping frequencies shall be used and the average time of occupancy on any frequency shall not be greater thansecond in every 2 seconds;

(ii) Use of spread spectrum transmitters under paragraph (f)(4) of this section is subject to approval by the applicable frequency coordinator of the radio services of the district in which the license and equipment are to be used; and

(iii) The use of direct sequence spread spectrum equipment is also permitted. Equipment must meet the technical standards of § 15.247 of this chapter.

(6) In addition to the frequencies assigned for mobile service operation, one base station frequency above 152 MHz may be assigned as a common frequency to all licensees in a particular area to permit intersystem communication between base stations or mobile stations or both. This frequency use will not be authorized in any area where all available frequencies are required for independent systems.

(7) A licensee may use, without a specific authorization from the Commission, transmitters on the frequencies indicated below in connection with wildlife tracking and/or telemetry and in connection with official forestry-conservation activities, provided that such use shall be on a secondary basis and shall not cause harmful interference to services of other licensees operating on regularly assigned frequencies. The provisions of §§ 90.203, 90.425, and 90.429 shall not apply to transmitters complying with this paragraph. To be eligible for operations in this manner, the transmitter must comply with all of the following requirements.

(i) The carrier frequency shall be within the bands listed below. The carrier frequency must be maintained within 0.005 percent of the frequency of operation.

Use on assigned channel center frequencies is not required.

(ii) The emitted signal shall be non-voice modulation (A1D, A2D, F1D, or F2D emission).

(iii) The maximum occupied bandwidth, containing 99 percent of the radiated power, shall not exceed 0.25 kHz.

(iv) The transmitter output power shall not exceed a mean power of 5 mW nor shall any peak exceed 100 mW peak power, as measured into a permanently attached antenna; or if the transmitter and antenna combination are contained in a sealed unit, the field strength of the fundamental signal of the transmitter and antenna combination shall not exceed 0.29 V/m mean or 1.28 V/m peak when measured at a distance of 3 meters.

(v) The requirements of § 90.175 regarding frequency coordination apply.

(8) An additional frequency may be assigned for paging operations from those frequencies available under paragraph (d)(13) of this section.

(9) The frequency 155.340 MHz may be assigned as an additional frequency when it is designated as a mutual assistance frequency as provided in paragraph (d)(40) of this section.

(10) Additional frequencies may be assigned for fixed station operations.

(11) The assignment of an additional frequency or frequencies may be authorized notwithstanding this limitation for common, intra-county, intra-fire-district, or intrastate fire coordination operations. The frequency or frequencies requested must be in accordance with a frequency utilization plan, for the area involved, on file with the Commission.
