
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### § 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### See

(82) After December 7, 2000 new stations will only be licensed with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz. Licensees authorized prior to December 7, 2000 may continue to use bandwidths wider than 11.25 kHz on a co-primary basis until January 1, 2005. After January 1, 2005, all stations operating with an authorized bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz will be secondary to adjacent channel public safety interoperability operations. (§ 90.20(c)(3)).

(83) Telemetry operations on this frequency will be authorized pursuant to § 90.267.

(84) Operation on this frequency is subject to the low power provisions of § 90.267. This frequency is assigned to Group A in the low power pool.

(85) Operation on this frequency is subject to the low power provisions of § 90.267. This frequency is assigned to Group B in the low power pool.

(86) Operation on this frequency is subject to the low power provisions of § 90.267. This frequency is assigned to Group C in the low power pool.

(87) Operation on this frequency is subject to the low power provisions of § 90.267. This frequency is assigned to Group D in the low power pool.

(88) Use of this frequency is on a secondary basis limited to 2 watts output power and subject to the provisions of § 90.267(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(3) and (h)(4).
