
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### ยง 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### Limitation on itinerant operation.

(f)Base or mobile stations being utilized in itinerant operation will be authorized only on base or mobile frequencies designated for itinerant operation under paragraphs (c)(10) or (c)(17) of this section, or on other frequencies not designated for permanent use.

(g) The frequencies 9-490 kHz are used to operate electric utility Power Line Carrier (PLC) systems on power transmission lines for communications essential to the reliability and security of electric service to the public, in accordance with part 15 of this chapter. Any electric utility that generates, transmits, or distributes electrical energy for use by the general public or by the members of a cooperative organization may operate PLC systems and shall supply to a Federal Communications Commission/National Telecommunications and Information Administration recognized industry-operated entity, information on all existing, changes to existing, and proposed systems for inclusion in a data base. Such information shall include the frequency, power, location of transmitter(s), location of receivers and other technical and operational parameters, which would characterize the system's potential both to interfere with authorized radio users, and to receive harmful interference from these users. In an agreed upon format, the industry-operated entity shall inform the FCC and the NTIA of these system characteristics prior to implementation of any proposed PLC system and shall provide monthly or periodic lists with supplements of PLC systems. The FCC and NTIA will supply appropriate application and licensing information to the notification activity regarding authorized radio stations operating in the band. PLC systems in this band operate on a non-interference basis to radio systems assigned frequencies by the NTIA or licensed by the FCC and are not protected from interference due to these radio operations.
