
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### § 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### Additional frequencies available.

(d)In addition to the frequencies shown in the frequency table of this section, the following frequencies are available in this service. (See also § 90.253.)

(1) Frequencies may be substituted for those available below 25 MHz in accordance with the provisions of § 90.263.

(2) Frequencies in the band 73.0-74.6 MHz may be assigned to stations authorized on or before December 1, 1961, but no new stations will be authorized in this band, nor will expansion of existing systems be permitted. (See also § 90.257).

(3) Frequencies in the 421-430 MHz band are available in the Detroit, Cleveland, and Buffalo areas in accordance with the rules in §§ 90.273 through 90.281.

(4) The following frequencies are available only in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. These "Base and Mobile" and "Mobile only" frequencies are available on a shared basis with the Public Safety Pool. These "Mobile only" frequencies may be assigned to a control station associated with a mobile relay system if it is also assigned to the associated mobile station.

(5) Low power mobile stations of 100 mw or less output power used for one-way, non-voice medical telemetry operations in hospitals or in medical convalescent centers are subject to the provisions of § 90.238.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) A railroad licensee, i.e., a licensee eligible for frequencies listed in § 90.35(b)(3) of this section that are coordinated by the railroad coordinator (LR), may operate radio units at fixed locations and in moving railroad locomotives/cars that transmit on the frequency 24.10 GHz, both unmodulated continuous wave radio signals and modulated FM digital signals for the purpose of alerting motorists to the presence of an approaching train. Unattended and continuous operation of such transmitters will be permitted without additional authorization from the Commission, provided type accepted equipment or equipment authorized pursuant to §§ 90.203(b)(4) and (b)(5) of this part is used, and all other rule provisions are satisfied.
