
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### ยง 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### see

(89) The frequency may be assigned only to entities meeting the definition of a forest product licensee (ยง 90.7). Operations are on a secondary basis to Federal Government operations including experimental stations, will not exceed 150 watts output power, and are limited to the states of Washington, Oregon, Maine, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas (eastern portion).

(90) As of March 25, 2007, the FCC will cease to issue licenses for new stations in the fixed and mobile services in the following bands: 5900-5950 kHz, 7300-7350 kHz, 9400-9500 kHz, 11600-11650 kHz, 12050-12100 kHz, 13800-13870 kHz, and 15600-15800 kHz. As of March 29, 2009, the FCC will cease to issue licenses for new stations in the fixed and mobile services in the band 7350-7400 kHz and, in the U.S. Pacific insular areas in Region 3, the band 7400-7450 kHz. Stations licensed as of March 25, 2007 in the bands 5900-5950 kHz, 7300-7350 kHz, 9400-9500 kHz, 11600-11650 kHz, 12050-12100 kHz, 13800-13870 kHz, and 15600-15800 kHz and as of March 29, 2009 for the band 7350-7400 kHz in Region 2 and the band 7350-7450 kHz in Region 3 shall:

(91) Subpart M of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 5850-5925 MHz band.

(92) This frequency is available on a shared basis both for remote control and telemetry operations and for mobile repeater operations. The authorized bandwidth may not exceed 11.25 kHz.

(93) This frequency is available on a shared basis with the Public Safety Pool for remote control and telemetry operations. In cases where ยง 90.35(c)(95) applies to this frequency, licensees seeking primary status for the use of this frequency for mobile repeater stations and hand-carried transmitters that communicate directly with mobile repeater stations must describe the area of normal day-to-day operations either in terms of operation in a specific county or in the terms of maximum distance from a geographic center (latitude and longitude) and shall be subject to the frequency coordination requirements of ยง 90.175.

(94) Mobile repeaters operating on this frequency are subject to a channel loading requirement of 50 transmitter-receivers. Loading standards will be applied in terms of the number of units actually in use or to be placed in use within 8 months following authorization. A licensee will be required to show that an assigned frequency pair is at full capacity before it may be assigned a second or additional frequency. Channel capacity may be reached either by the requirements of a single licensee or by several users sharing a channel. Until a channel is loaded to capacity it will be available for assignment to other users in the same area.

(95) The maximum effective radiated power (ERP) may not exceed 2 watts for mobile stations, and 5 watts for mobile repeater stations and hand-carried transmitters that communicate directly with mobile repeater stations.
