
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### ยง 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### Frequencies.

(3)

(c) Explanation of assignment limitations appearing in the frequency table of paragraph (b)(3) of this section:

(1) Use of this frequency is permitted as follows:

(i) Only entities engaged in the following activities are eligible to use this spectrum, and then only in accordance with ยง 90.266:

(A) Prospecting for petroleum, natural gas or petroleum products;

(B) Distribution of electric power or the distribution by pipeline of fuels or water;

(C) Exploration, its support services, and the repair of pipelines; or

(D) The repair of telecommunications circuits.

(ii) Except as provided in this part, licensees may not use these frequencies in the place of other operational circuits permitted by the Commission's rules. Circuits operating on these frequencies may be used only for the following purposes:

(A) Providing standby backup communications for circuits which have been disrupted and which directly affect the safety of life, property, or the national interest or are used for coordinating inter-utility, intra-utility, and power pool distribution of electric power;

(B) Providing operational circuits during exploration;

(C) Coordinating the repair of inter-utility, intra-utility, and power pool electric power distribution networks, or the repair of pipelines;

(D) Exploratory efforts in mining for solid fuels, minerals, and metals important to the national interest;

(E) Repair of pipelines used for the transmission of fuel or water;

(F) Services supporting the exploration for energy or mineral resources important to the national interest, without which such exploration cannot be conducted; or

(G) Coordinating the repair of wireline or point-to-point microwave circuits.

(2) This frequency will be assigned with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 4 kHz.

(3) This frequency is available for assignment only to stations utilized for geophysical purposes.

(4) Geophysical operations may use tone or impulse signaling for purposes other than indicating failure of equipment or abnormal conditions on this frequency. All such tone or impulse signaling shall be on a secondary basis and subject to the following limitations:

(i) Maximum duration of a single non-voice transmission may not exceed 3 minutes;

(ii) The bandwidth utilized for secondary tone or impulse signaling shall not exceed that authorized to the licensee for voice emission on the frequency concerned;

(iii) Frequency loading resulting from the use of secondary tone or impulse signaling will not be considered in whole or in part, as a justification for authorizing additional frequencies in the licensee's mobile service system; and

(iv) The maximum transmitter output power for tone or impulse transmissions shall not exceed 50 watts.

(5) Frequencies below 25 MHz will be assigned to base or mobile stations only upon a satisfactory showing that, from a safety of life standpoint, frequencies above 25 MHz will not meet the operational requirements of the applicant.

(6) Frequencies may be assigned in pairs with the separation between base and mobile transmit frequencies being 5.26 MHz. A mobile station may be assigned the frequency which would normally be assigned to a base station for single frequency operation. However, this single-frequency operation may be subject to interference that would not occur to a two-frequency system. Base or mobile stations operating wholly within Standard Metropolitan Areas having 50,000 or more population (1950 Census) must be operated in the half-duplex mode.

(7) This frequency is available for assignment to geophysical stations on a secondary basis to other licensees. Geophysical stations must cease operations on this frequency immediately upon receiving notice that interference is being caused to mobile service stations.

(8) This frequency is primarily available for oil spill containment and cleanup operations and for training and drills essential in the preparations for the containment and cleanup of oil spills. It is secondarily available for general base-mobile operations on a noninterference basis. Secondary users of this frequency are required to forego its use should oil spill containment and cleanup activities be present in their area of operation or upon notice by the Commission or a primary user that harmful interference is being caused to oil spill containment or cleanup activities in other areas.

(9) Operation on this frequency is secondary to stations in the maritime mobile service operating in accordance with the International table of frequency allocations.
