
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### ยง 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### Limitation on number of frequencies assignable.

(e)Normally only one frequency, or pair of frequencies in the paired frequency mode of operation, will be assigned for mobile service operations by a single applicant in a given area. The assignment of an additional frequency or pair of frequencies will be made only upon a satisfactory showing of need, except that:

(1) Additional frequencies above 25 MHz may be assigned in connection with operation of mobile repeaters in accordance with ยง 90.247 notwithstanding this limitation.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Frequencies in the 25-50 MHz, 150-170 MHz, 450-512 MHz and 902-928 MHz bands may be assigned for the operation of Location and Monitoring Service (LMS) systems in accordance with the provisions of subpart M of this part, notwithstanding this limitation.

(4) Authorizations for multiple frequencies for geophysical operations will be granted on the frequencies governed by the limitations in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section. However, each geophysical exploration party may use a maximum of four frequencies at any one time.

(5) Authorization for more than one mobile frequency in the band 72-76 MHz will be issued notwithstanding this limitation.

(6) This limitation shall not apply to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(7) Frequencies in the 457 and 467 MHz bands may be assigned collectively as provided by paragraph (c)(60) of this section notwithstanding this limitation.
