
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Industrial/Business Radio Pool
###### § 90.35 Industrial/Business Pool.
####### i.e.,

(10) This frequency will be assigned only to stations used in itinerant operations, except within 56 km (35 miles) of Detroit, Mich., where it may be assigned for either itinerant or permanent area operations (general use).

(11) Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum output power of 2 watts; and each station authorized will be classified and licensed as a mobile station. Any units of such a station, however, may provide the operational functions of a base or fixed station on a secondary basis to mobile service operations, Provided, that the separation between the control point and the center of the radiating portion of the antenna of any units so used does not exceed 8 m (25 ft.).

(12) This frequency may not be used aboard aircraft in flight.

(13) This frequency is shared with the Public Safety Pool.

(14) Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum output power of 1 watt and each station authorized will be classified and licensed as a mobile station. Any units of such a station, however, may provide the operational functions of a base or fixed station on a secondary basis to mobile service operations, provided that the separation between the control point and the center of the radiating portion of the antenna of any units so used does not exceed 8m (25 ft.).

(15) This Government frequency is available for shared Government/non-Government use by stations engaged in oil spill containment and cleanup operations and for training and drills essential in the preparation for containment and cleanup of oil spills. Such use will be confined to inland and coastal waterways.

(16) This frequency may be assigned only to stations operating in an interconnected or coordinated utility system in accordance with an operational communications plan which sets forth all points of communications. Authorizations at variance with an established operational communications plan will be made only on a secondary basis.

(17) This frequency will be assigned only to stations used in itinerant operations.

(18) This frequency is also used on a secondary basis for cordless telephones under part 15 of this chapter.

(19) In addition to single frequency operation, this frequency is available to base and mobile stations for the paired frequency mode of operation. For two frequency systems, the separation between base and mobile transmit frequencies is 500 kHz with the base stations transmitting on the higher of the two frequencies.

(20) In the State of Alaska only, the frequency 44.10 MHz is available for assignment on a primary basis to stations in the Common Carrier Rural Radio Service utilizing meteor burst communications. The frequency may be used by private radio stations for meteor burst communications on a secondary, non-interference basis. Usage shall be in accordance with parts 22 and 90 of this chapter. Stations utilizing meteor burst communications shall not cause harmful interference to stations of other radio services operating in accordance with the allocation table.

(21) In the State of Alaska only, the frequency 44.20 MHz is available for assignment on a primary basis to private land mobile radio stations utilizing meteor burst communications. The frequency may be used by common carrier stations for meteor burst communications on a secondary, non-interference basis. Usage shall be in accordance with parts 22 and 90 of this chapter. Stations utilizing meteor burst communications shall not cause harmful interference to stations of other radio services operating in accordance with the allocation table.

(22) The frequencies available for use at operational fixed stations in the band 72-76 MHz are listed in § 90.257(a)(1). These frequencies are shared with other services and are available only in accordance with the provisions of § 90.257. Seismic telemetry transmitters certificated with 1 watt or less power and a frequency tolerance not exceeding +/-0.005% may be used as temporary operational fixed stations.

(23) This frequency is shared with fixed stations in other services and is subject to no protection from interference.

(24) All operations on this frequency are subject to the provisions of § 90.257(b).

(25) This frequency is shared with the Radio Control (R/C) Service, of the part 95 Personal Radio Services, where it is used solely for the radio control of models.

(26) Pulsed modulations will not be authorized on this frequency.

(27) Assignment of frequencies in this band are subject to the provisions of § 90.173. In the 150-170 MHz band, licensees as of August 18, 1995 who operate systems that are 2.5 kHz removed from regularly assignable frequencies may continue to operate on a secondary, non-interference basis after August 1, 2003.

(28) In Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands this frequency is subject to the following:

(i) This frequency is assigned only for one-way paging communications to mobile receivers. Only A1D, A2D, A3E, F1D, F2D, F3E, or G3E emissions may be authorized. Licensees may provide one-way paging communications on this frequency to individuals, persons eligible for licensing under subparts B or C of this part, to representatives of Federal Government agencies, and foreign governments and their representatives; and

(ii) This frequency will not be assigned to stations for use at temporary locations.

(29) This frequency will be authorized a channel bandwidth of 25 kHz. Except when limited elsewhere, one-way paging transmitters on this frequency may operate with an output power of 350 watts.

(30) This frequency will be assigned with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz. In the 450-470 MHz band, secondary telemetry operations pursuant to § 90.238(e) will be authorized on this frequency.

(31) Use of this frequency is limited to stations located in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.

(32) This frequency is not available to stations located in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.

(33) This frequency will be assigned with an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 6 kHz.

(34) Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum output power of 35 watts.

(35) This frequency may be used for mobile operation for radio remote control and telemetering functions. A1D, A2D, F1D, or F2D emission may be authorized and mobile stations used to control remote objects or devices may be operated on the continuous carrier transmit mode.

(36) This frequency is assigned only for one-way paging communications to mobile receivers. Only A1D, A2D, A3E, F1D, F2D, F3E, or G3E emissions may be authorized. Licensees may provide one-way paging communications on this frequency to individuals, persons eligible for licensing under subparts B or C of this part, to representatives of Federal Government agencies, and foreign governments and their representatives.

(37) This frequency is available on a secondary basis to one-way paging communications.

(38) This frequency will not be assigned to stations for use at temporary locations.

(39) For FM transmitters the sum of the highest modulating frequency and the amount of frequency deviation may not exceed 2.8 kHz and the maximum frequency deviation may not exceed 2.5 kHz. For AM transmitters the highest modulating frequency may not exceed 2.0 kHz. The carrier frequency must be maintained within 0.0005 percent, and the authorized bandwidth may not exceed 6 kHz.

(40) This frequency is shared with the Public Safety Pool for remote control and telemetry operations.

(41) Operational fixed stations must employ directional antennas having a front-to-back ratio of at least 20 dB. Omnidirectional antennas having unity gain may be employed for stations communicating with at least three receiving locations separated by 160 deg. of azimuth.

(42) The maximum effective radiated power (ERP) may not exceed 20 watts for fixed stations and 2 watts for mobile stations. The height of the antenna system may not exceed 15.24 meters (50 ft.) above the ground. All such operation is on a secondary basis to adjacent channel land mobile operations.

(43) This frequency is available for the following:

(i) Assignment to multiple address fixed stations employing omnidirectional antennas used for power utility peak load shaving and shedding and to mobile stations used for the remote control of objects and devices. The maximum power that may be authorized to fixed stations is 300 watts output, and the maximum power that may be authorized for mobile stations is 1 watt output. This frequency may also be assigned to operational fixed stations employing directional antenna systems (front-to-back ratio of 20 dB) when such stations are located at least 120 km. (75 mi.) from the boundaries of any urbanized area of 200,000 or more population. (U.S. Census of Population, 1960). The maximum power output of the transmitter for such fixed stations may not exceed 50 watts. A1A, A1D, A2B, A2D, F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, G1B, G1D, G2B, or G2D emission may be authorized; or

(ii) On a secondary basis for remote control and telemetry operations, subject to paragraphs (c)(41), (42), (43), (46), and (47) of this section.

(44) The maximum output power of the transmitter may not exceed 50 watts for fixed stations and 1 watt for mobile stations. A1A, A1D, A2B, A2D, F1B, F1D, F2B, F2D, G1B, G1D, G2B, or G2D emission may be authorized, and mobile stations used to control remote objects and devices may be operated in the continuous transmit mode.

(45) [Reserved]

(46) This frequency is limited to a maximum power of 20 watts.

(47) This frequency may be used for mobile operation for remote control and telemetering functions. A1D, A2D, F1D, or F2D emission may be authorized. The use of the continuous carrier transmit mode for these purposes is permitted only for stations authorized and continuously licensed since before May 21, 1971.

(48) Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum output power of 20 watts.

(49) Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum output power of 75 watts.

(50) This frequency may also be used for the transmission of tone or voice communications, including such communications when prerecorded, for purposes of automatically indicating abnormal conditions of trackage and railroad rolling stock when in motion, on a secondary basis to other stations on this frequency. All such operations shall be subject to the following:

(i) The output power shall not exceed 30 watts;

(ii) The bandwidth used shall not exceed that authorized to the licensee for voice transmissions on the frequency concerned;

(iii) The station shall be so designed and installed that it can normally be activated only by its associated automatic control equipment and, in addition, it shall be equipped with a time delay or clock device which will deactivate the station within three (3) minutes following activation by the last car in the train; and

(iv) Stations authorized pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph are exempt from the station identification requirements of § 90.425.

(51) In Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands only, this frequency is available on a shared basis with remote pickup broadcast stations.

(52) In Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands only, this frequency is available to all stations operating in the Industrial/Business Pool and may be coordinated by any frequency coordinator certified in the Industrial/Business Pool.

(53) Frequencies in this band will be assigned only for transmitting hydrological or meteorological data or for low power wireless microphones in accordance with the provisions of § 90.265.

(54) For FM transmitters the sum of the highest modulating frequency and the amount of frequency deviation may not exceed 1.7 kHz and the maximum deviation may not exceed 1.2 kHz. For AM transmitters the highest modulating frequency may not exceed 1.2 kHz. The carrier frequency must be maintained within 0.0005 percent and the authorized bandwidth may not exceed 3 kHz.

(55) This band is available to stations operating in this service subject to the provisions of § 90.259.

(56) Subpart T of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 220-222 MHz band.

(57) The requirements for secondary fixed use of frequencies in this band are set forth in § 90.261.

(58) Operational fixed assignments on this frequency will only be made to an itinerant fixed control or relay station on a secondary basis to land-mobile stations in the Industrial/Business Pool, provided that the fixed relay or control station is to be associated with base and mobile facilities authorized to use other frequencies available for itinerant operation in the Industrial/Business Pool. All such use of these frequencies for fixed systems is limited to locations 161 or more km. (100 mi.) from the center of any urbanized area of 200,000 or more population, except that the distance may be 120 km. (75 mi.) if the output power does not exceed 20 watts. All such fixed systems are limited to a maximum of two frequencies and must employ directional antennas with a front-to-back ratio of at least 15 dB. The centers of urbanized areas of 200,000 or more population are determined from the appendix, page 226, of the U.S. Commerce publication, "Air Line Distance Between Cities in the United States." Urbanized areas of 200,000 or more population are defined in the U.S. Census of Population, 1960, volume 1, table 23, page 1-50.

(59) This frequency may be assigned primarily for stations used for the purpose of controlling slave locomotives that are placed within a train to assist the lead locomotive by providing, among other functions, auxiliary starting, pulling, and braking actions. Additionally, on a secondary basis this frequency may be assigned for remote control of all types of locomotives and, within a railroad yard or terminal area, for remote control of cab indicator devices placed with a locomotive to give visual signals to the operator of the locomotive. (A1, A2, F1 or F2 emissions may be authorized.)

(60)(i) This frequency is available for voice or non-voice communications concerned with cargo handling from a dock or cargo handling facility, a vessel alongside the dock, or cargo handling facility. The effective radiated power (ERP) shall not exceed 2 watts. Mobile relay stations may be temporarily installed on vessels located at or in the vicinity of a dock or cargo handling facility. The center of the radiating system of the mobile relay shall be located no more than 3 meters (10 feet) above the vessel's highest working dock.

(ii) This frequency is also available for low power non-cargo handling operations, both voice and non-voice, on a secondary basis to cargo handling communications. Such operations are not subject to the power limitations in paragraph (c)(60)(i) of this section on the following frequencies: 457.525 MHz, 457.550 MHz, 457.5625 MHz, 457.575 MHz, 457.5875 MHz, 457.600 MHz, and 457.6125 MHz. This frequency will not be assigned for non-cargo handling operations at temporary locations.

(iii) For mobile relay operations under paragraph (c)(60)(i) of this section, frequency pairing is as follows:

(61) This frequency is available for assignment as follows:

(i) To persons furnishing commercial air transportation service or, pursuant to § 90.179, to an entity furnishing radio communications service to persons so engaged, for stations located on or near the airports listed in paragraph (c)(61)(iv) of this section. Stations will be authorized on a primary basis and may be used only in connection with servicing and supplying of aircraft. Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum effective radiated power (ERP) of 100 watts at locations within 16 km (10 miles) of the coordinates of the listed airports.

(ii) To stations in the Industrial/Business Pool for secondary use at locations 80 km (approximately 50 miles) or more from the coordinates of the listed airports. Operation will be limited to a maximum ERP of 300 watts.

(iii) To stations in the Industrial/Business Pool for secondary use at locations greater than 16 km (approximately 10 miles) but less than 80 km (approximately 50 miles) from the coordinates of the listed airports. Operation will be limited to a maximum ERP of 10 watts. Use of this frequency is restricted to the confines of an industrial complex or manufacturing yard area. Stations licensed prior to April 25, 2005, may continue to operate with facilities authorized as of that date.

(iv) The airports and their respective reference coordinates are (coordinates are referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)):

(62) This frequency may be assigned to fixed stations in the Industrial/Business Pool in accordance with the provisions of § 90.261.

(63) Unless concurrence is obtained in accordance with § 90.175(b) of this chapter from the Commission-certified frequency coordinator for frequencies designated for central station alarm operations (central station alarm frequency coordinator), this frequency may be used within the boundaries of urbanized areas of 200,000 or more population, defined in the United States Census of Population, 1960, vol. 1, table 23, page 1-50, only by persons rendering a central station commercial protection service within the service area of the radio station using the frequency and may be used only for communications pertaining to safety of life and property, and for maintenance or testing of the protection facilities. Central station commercial protection service is defined as an electrical protection and supervisory service rendered to the public from and by a central station accepted and certified by one or more of the recognized rating agencies, or the Underwriters Laboratories' (UL), or Factory Mutual System. Other stations in the Industrial/Business Pool may be licensed on this frequency without the central station alarm frequency coordinator's concurrence only when all base, mobile relay and control stations are located at least 120 km (75 miles) from the city center or centers of the specified urban areas of 200,000 or more population. With respect to combination urbanized areas containing more than one city, 120 km (75 mile) separation shall be maintained from each city center which is included in the urbanized area. The locations of centers of cities are determined from appendix, page 226, of the U.S. Commerce publication "Air Line Distance Between Cities in the United States."

(64) Persons who render a central station commercial protection service are authorized to operate fixed stations on this frequency for the transmission of tone or impulse signals on a co-primary basis to base/mobile operations. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobiles. Fixed stations used for central station alarm operations may use antennas mounted not more than 6.1 meters (20 feet) above a man-made supporting structure, including antenna structure.

(i) The output power shall not exceed 30 watts (at the remote site).

(ii) A1D, A2D, F1D, or F2D emission may be authorized.

(iii) Operational fixed stations authorized under this paragraph are exempt from the requirements of §§ 90.137(b), 90.429(d), 90.425 and 90.433.

(65) Licensees providing a central station commercial protection service may communicate with police or fire stations, or vehicles, on this frequency, and may install licensed transmitting units which operate on this frequency at police or fire stations, or in police or fire vehicles, if the frequency's primary use is in a base/mobile system for a central station commercial protection service.

(66) Unless concurrence is obtained in accordance with section 90.175(b) of this chapter from the Commission-certified frequency coordinator for frequencies designated for central station alarm operations, this frequency may be assigned only to persons rendering a central station commercial protection service, which is defined in paragraph (c)(63) of this section, within the service area of the radio station using the frequency.

(67) Medical telemetry operations are authorized on this frequency on a secondary basis. Medical telemetry operations are subject to the provisions of § 90.267(h)(2).

(68) Each station authorized on this frequency will be classified and licensed as a mobile station. Any units of such a station, however, may provide the operational functions of a base station on a secondary basis to mobile service operations provided that the vertical separation between control point or ground level and the center of the radiating portion of the antenna of any units so used does not exceed 8 meters (approximately 25 feet). This frequency is available for assignment as follows:

(i) To persons furnishing commercial air transportation service or, pursuant to § 90.179, to an entity furnishing radio communications service to persons so engaged, for stations located on or near the airports listed in paragraph (c)(61)(iv) of this section. Stations will be authorized on a primary basis and may be used only in connection with servicing and supplying of aircraft. Operation on this frequency is limited to a maximum effective radiated power (ERP) of 40 watts at locations within 16 km (approximately 10 miles) of the coordinates of the listed airports.

(ii) To stations in the Industrial/Business Pool for secondary use at locations 80 km (approximately 50 miles) or more from the coordinates of the listed airports. Operation will be limited to a maximum ERP of 120 watts. Wide area operation will not be permitted. The area of normal, day-to-day operations will be described in the application.

(iii) To stations in the Industrial/Business Pool for secondary use at locations greater than 16 km (approximately 10 miles) but less than 80 km (approximately 50 miles) from the coordinates of the listed airports. Operation will be limited to a maximum ERP of 6 watts. Use of this frequency is restricted to the confines of an industrial complex or manufacturing yard area. Stations licensed prior to April 25, 2005, may continue to operate with facilities authorized as of that date.

(69) This frequency may be used on a secondary, non-interference basis by a hospital or health care institution holding a license to operate a radio station under this part to operate a medical radio telemetry device with an output power not to exceed 20 milliwatts without specific authorization from the Commission.

(70) Subpart L of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band.

(71) Subpart S of this part contains rules for assignment of frequencies in the 806-824/851-869 MHz band and for narrowband operations in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band.

(72) Assignment of frequencies above 928 MHz for operational-fixed stations is governed by part 101 of this chapter.

(73) Frequencies in this band are available only for one-way paging operations in accordance with § 90.494.

(74) Available only on a shared basis with stations in other services, and subject to no protection from interference due to the operation of industrial, scientific, or medical (ISM) devices. In the band 2483.5-2500 MHz, no applications for new stations or modification to existing stations to increase the number of transmitters will be accepted. Existing licensees as of July 25, 1985, and licensees whose initial applications were filed on or before July 25, 1985, are grandfathered and their operations are on a co-primary basis with the mobile-satellite and radiodetermination-satellite services, and in the segment 2495-2500 MHz, their operations are also on a co-primary basis with part 27 fixed and mobile except aeronautical mobile service operations.

(75) [Reserved]

(76) The frequencies in the band 10.55-10.68 GHz are available for Digital Termination Systems and for associated intermodal links in the Point-to-Point Microwave Service. No new licenses will be issued under this subpart but current licenses will be renewed.

(77) All communications on this frequency must be conducted within the boundaries or confines of the licensee's business premises.

(78) Base and mobile stations authorized as of April 1, 1968, may continue to be authorized for such operation on a secondary basis to the Maritime Mobile Service. The licensees of such stations may renew, modify, reinstate, or assign their licenses in those cases where such assignment accompanies a change of ownership of the licensee's business to the assignee, and may expand existing systems when using that frequency; however, they will not be authorized to establish any new systems.

(79) Frequencies may be assigned in pairs with the separation between base and mobile transmit frequencies being 5.26 MHz. A mobile station may be assigned the frequency which would normally be assigned to a base station for single frequency operation. However, this single-frequency operation may be subject to interference that would not occur to a two-frequency system. Base or mobile stations located 80.5 km (50 miles) or less from the center or any urbanized area of 600,000 or more population (U.S. Census of Population, 1970) must be operated in the half-duplex mode.

(80) Concurrence from the Petroleum Coordinator is required only for applications for this frequency that request authorization for transmitters in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, or Texas.

(81) Concurrence from the Petroleum Coordinator is required only for applications for this frequency that request authorization for transmitters in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, or Washington.
