
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart O - Collection of Claims Owed the United States
###### General Provisions Concerning Interagency Requests
####### ยง 1.1953 Interagency requests.

(a) Requests to the Commission by other Federal agencies for administrative or salary offset shall be in writing and forwarded to the Financial Operations Center at the FCC's main office, located at the address indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a).

(b) Requests by the Commission to other Federal agencies holding funds payable to the debtor will be in writing and forwarded, certified return receipt, as specified by that agency in its regulations. If the agency's rules governing this matter are not readily available or identifiable, the request will be submitted to that agency's office of legal counsel with a request that it be processed in accordance with their internal procedures.

(c) Requests to and from the Commission shall be accompanied by a certification that the debtor owes the debt (including the amount) and that the procedures for administrative or salary offset contained in this subpart, or comparable procedures prescribed by the requesting agency, have been fully complied with. The Commission will cooperate with other agencies in effecting collection.

(d) Requests to and from the Commission shall be processed within 30 calendar days of receipt. If such processing is impractical or not feasible, notice to extend the time period for another 30 calendar days will be forwarded 10 calendar days prior to the expiration of the first 30-day period.
