
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Applications and Authorizations
###### ยง 90.165 Procedures for mutually exclusive applications.
####### Disposition.

(4)If there is only one application in any type of filing group, the Commission may grant that application and dismiss without prejudice any mutually exclusive applications not in the filing group. If there is more than one mutually exclusive application in a filing group, the Commission disposes of these applications as follows:

(i) Applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group.

(A) If all of the mutually exclusive applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group are applications for initial authorization, the Commission administers competitive bidding procedures in accordance with subpart Q of part 1 of this chapter. After such procedures, the application of the successful bidder may be granted and the other applications may be dismissed without prejudice.

(B) If any of the mutually exclusive applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group is an application for modification or an application for facilities, the Commission may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the Commission may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes all of the applications in the filing group.

(ii) Applications in a same-day filing group. If there are two or more mutually exclusive applications in a same-day filing group, the Commission may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the Commission may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes all of the applications in the filing group.

(iii) Applications in a window filing group. Applications in a window filing group are processed in accordance with the procedures for a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
