
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Applications and Authorizations
###### ยง 90.168 Equal employment opportunities.
####### Complaints of violations of Equal Employment Programs.

(d)Complaints alleging employment discrimination against a common carrier licensee are considered by the Commission in the following manner:

(1) If a complaint raising an issue of discrimination is received against a licensee who is within the jurisdiction of the EEOC, it is submitted to that agency. The Commission maintains a liaison with that agency that keeps the Commission informed of the disposition of complaints filed against common carrier licensees.

(2) Complaints alleging employment discrimination against a common carrier licensee who does not fall under the jurisdiction of the EEOC but is covered by appropriate enforceable State law, to which penalties apply, may be submitted by the Commission to the respective State agency.

(3) Complaints alleging employment discrimination against a common carrier licensee who does not fall under the jurisdiction of the EEOC or an appropriate State law, are accorded appropriate treatment by the Commission.

(4) The Commission will consult with the EEOC on all matters relating to the evaluation and determination of compliance by the common carrier licensees with the principles of equal employment as set forth herein.

(5) Complaints indicating a general pattern of disregard of equal employment practices which are received against a licensee that is required to file an employment report to the Commission under ยง 1.815(a) of this chapter are investigated by the Commission.
