
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Applications and Authorizations
###### ยง 90.168 Equal employment opportunities.
####### Equal employment opportunity program.

(a)Each licensee shall establish, maintain, and carry out a positive continuing program of specific practices designed to assure equal opportunity in every aspect of employment policy and practice.

(1) Under the terms of its program, each licensee shall:

(i) Define the responsibility of each level of management to insure a positive application and vigorous enforcement of the policy of equal opportunity, and establish a procedure to review and control managerial and supervisory performance.

(ii) Inform its employees and recognized employee organizations of the positive equal employment opportunity policy and program and enlist their cooperation.

(iii) Communicate its equal employment opportunity policy and program and its employment needs to sources of qualified applicants without regard to sex, race, color, religion or national origin, and solicit their recruitment assistance on a continuing basis.

(iv) Conduct a continuing campaign to exclude every form of prejudice or discrimination based upon sex, race, color, religion, or national origin, from the licensee's personnel policies and practices and working conditions.

(v) Conduct a continuing review of job structure and employment practices and adopt positive recruitment, training, job design and other measures needed in order to insure genuine equality of opportunity to participate fully in all organizational units, occupations and levels of responsibility.

(2) The program must reasonably address specific concerns through policies and actions as set forth in this paragraph, to the extent that they are appropriate in consideration of licensee size, location and other factors.

(i) To assure nondiscrimination in recruiting.

(A) Posting notices in the licensee's offices informing applicants for employment of their equal employment rights and their right to notify the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the Federal Communications Commission (Commission), or other appropriate agency. Where a substantial number of applicants are Spanish-surnamed Americans, such notice should be posted in both Spanish and English.

(B) Placing a notice in bold type on the employment application informing prospective employees that discrimination because of sex, race, color, religion, or national origin is prohibited, and that they may notify the EEOC, the Commission, or other appropriate agency if they believe they have been discriminated against.

(C) Placing employment advertisements in media which have significant circulation among minority groups in the recruiting area.

(D) Recruiting through schools and colleges with significant minority group enrollments.

(E) Maintaining systematic contacts with minority and human relations organizations, leaders and spokespersons to encourage referral of qualified minority or female applicants.

(F) Encouraging present employees to refer minority or female applicants.

(G) Making known to the appropriate recruitment sources in the employer's immediate area that qualified minority members are being sought for consideration whenever the licensee hires.

(ii) To assure nondiscrimination in selection and hiring.

(A) Instructing employees of the licensee who make hiring decisions that all applicants for all jobs are to be considered without discrimination.

(B) Where union agreements exist, cooperating with the union or unions in the development of programs to assure qualified minority persons or females of equal opportunity for employment, and including an effective nondiscrimination clause in new or renegotiated union agreements.

(C) Avoiding use of selection techniques or tests that have the effect of discriminating against minority groups or females.

(iii) To assure nondiscriminatory placement and promotion.

(A) Instructing employees of the licensee who make decisions on placement and promotion that minority employees and females are to be considered without discrimination, and that job areas in which there is little or no minority or female representation should be reviewed to determine whether this results from discrimination.

(B) Giving minority groups and female employees equal opportunity for positions which lead to higher positions. Inquiring as to the interest and skills of all lower-paid employees with respect to any of the higher-paid positions, followed by assistance, counseling, and effective measures to enable employees with interest and potential to qualify themselves for such positions.

(C) Reviewing seniority practices to insure that such practices are nondiscriminatory and do not have a discriminatory effect.

(D) Avoiding use of selection techniques or tests that have the effect of discriminating against minority groups or females.

(iv) to assure nondiscrimination in other areas of employment practices.

(A) Examining rates of pay and fringe benefits for present employees with equivalent duties and adjusting any inequities found.

(B) Providing opportunity to perform overtime work on a basis that does not discriminate against qualified minority groups or female employees.
