
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Policies Governing the Assignment of Frequencies
###### § 90.175 Frequency coordinator requirements.
####### For frequencies between 25 and 470 MHz.

(b)(1) A statement is required from the applicable frequency coordinator as specified in §§ 90.20(c)(2) and 90.35(b) recommending the most appropriate frequency. In addition, for frequencies to which § 90.35(c)(63) or (66) is applicable, the written concurrence of the Commission-certified frequency coordinator for frequencies designated for central station alarm operations must be obtained. In addition, for frequencies above 150 MHz, if the interference contour of a proposed station would overlap the service contour of a station on a frequency formerly shared prior to radio service consolidation by licensees in the Manufacturers Radio Service, the Forest Products Radio Service, the Power Radio Service, the Petroleum Radio Service, the Motor Carrier Radio Service, the Railroad Radio Service, the Telephone Maintenance Radio Service or the Automobile Emergency Radio Service, the written concurrence of the coordinator for the industry-specific service, or the written concurrence of the licensee itself, must be obtained. Requests for concurrence must be responded to within 20 days of receipt of the request. The written request for concurrence shall advise the receiving party of the maximum 20 day response period. The coordinator's recommendation may include comments on technical factors such as power, antenna height and gain, terrain and other factors which may serve to minimize potential interference. In addition:

(2) On frequencies designated for coordination or concurrence by a specific frequency coordinator as specified in §§ 90.20(c)(3) and 90.35(b), and on frequencies designated for concurrence as specified in § 90.35(c)(63) or (66), the applicable frequency coordinator shall provide a written supporting statement in instances in which coordination or concurrence is denied. The supporting statement shall contain sufficient detail to permit discernment of the technical basis for the denial of concurrence. Concurrence may be denied only when a grant of the underlying application would have a demonstrable, material, adverse effect on safety.

(3) In instances in which a frequency coordinator determines that an applicant's requested frequency or the most appropriate frequency is one designated for coordination or concurrence by a specific frequency coordinator as specified in § 90.20(c)(3) or § 90.35(b), that frequency coordinator may forward the application directly to the appropriate frequency coordinator. A frequency coordinator may only forward an application as specified above if consent is received from the applicant.

(4) For any application for mobile repeater station operations on frequencies denoted by both § 90.20(d)(90) and (92), or by both § 90.35(c)(93) and (95) the frequency coordinator responsible for the application must determine and disclose to the applicant the call signs and the service areas of all active co-channel incumbent remote control and telemetry stations inside the applicant's proposed area of operation by adding a special condition to the application, except when the applicant has obtained written concurrence from an affected incumbent licensee, or when the applicant and the incumbent licensee are the same entity.
