
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Policies Governing the Assignment of Frequencies
###### ยง 90.179 Shared use of radio stations.

Licensees of radio stations authorized under this rule part may share the use of their facilities. A station is shared when persons not licensed for the station control the station for their own purposes pursuant to the licensee's authorization. Shared use of a radio station may be either on a non-profit cost shared basis or on a for-profit private carrier basis. Shared use of an authorized station is subject to the following conditions and limitations:

(a) Persons may share a radio station only on frequencies for which they would be eligible for a separate authorization.

(b) The licensee of the shared radio station is responsible for assuring that the authorized facility is used only by persons and only for purposes consistent with the requirements of this rule part.

(c) Participants in the sharing arrangement may obtain a license for their own mobile units (including control points and/or control stations for control of the shared facility), or they may use mobile stations, and control stations or control points authorized to the licensee.

(d) If the licensee shares the land station on a non-profit, cost shared basis to the licensee, this shared use must be pursuant to a written agreement between the licensee and each participant which sets out (1) the method of operation, (2) the components of the system which are covered by the sharing arrangements, (3) the method by which costs are to be apportioned, and (4) acknowledgement that all shared transmitter use must be subject to the licensee's control. These agreements must be kept as part of the station records.
