
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Policies Governing the Assignment of Frequencies
###### § 90.176 Coordinator notification requirements on frequencies below 512 MHz, at 769-775/799-805 MHz, or at 1427-1432 MHz.

(a) Frequencies below 470 MHz. Within one business day of making a frequency recommendation, each frequency coordinator must notify and provide the information indicated in paragraph (g) of this section to all other frequency coordinators who are also certified to coordinate that frequency.

(1) The applicable frequency coordinator for each frequency is specified in the coordinator column of the frequency tables of §§ 90.20(c)(3) and 90.35(b)(3).

(2) For frequencies that do not specify any frequency coordinator, all certified in-pool coordinators must be notified.

(3) For frequencies that are shared between the Public Safety Pool and the Industrial/Business Pool (frequencies subject to §§ 90.20(d)(7), (d)(25), (d)(34), or (d)(46) in the Public Safety Pool, and subject to §§ 90.35(c)(13), (c)(25), or (d)(4) in the Industrial/Business Pool), all certified coordinators of both pools must be notified.

(b) Frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band. Within one business day of making a frequency recommendation, each frequency coordinator must notify and provide the information indicated in paragraph (g) of this section to all other certified frequency coordinators in the Public Safety Pool and the Industrial/Business Pool.
