
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Policies Governing the Assignment of Frequencies
###### § 90.175 Frequency coordinator requirements.
####### See

(i) Applications for facilities near the Canadian border north of line A or east of line C in Alaska may require coordination with the Canadian government.§ 1.928 of this chapter.

(j) The following applications need not be accompanied by evidence of frequency coordination:

(1) Applications for frequencies below 25 MHz.

(2) Applications for a Federal Government frequency.

(3) Applications for frequencies in the 72-76 MHz band except for mobile frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(77).

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Applications in the Industrial/Business Pool requesting a frequency designated for itinerant operations.

(6) Applications in the Radiolocation Service.

(7) Applications filed exclusively to modify channels in accordance with band reconfiguration in the 806-824/851-869 band.

(8) Applications for SMR frequencies contained in §§ 90.617(d) Table 4A, 90.617(e), 90.617(f) and 90.619(b)(2).

(9) Applications indicating license assignments such as change in ownership, control or corporate structure if there is no change in technical parameters.

(10) Applications for mobile stations operating in the 470-512 MHz band, 799-805 MHz band, or above 800 MHz if the frequency pair is assigned to a single system on an exclusive basis in the proposed area of operation.

(11) Applications for add-on base stations in multiple licensed systems operating in the 470-512 MHz, 769-775 MHz band, or above 800 MHz if the frequency pair is assigned to a single system on an exclusive basis.

(12) Applications for control stations operating below 470 MHz, 769-775/799-805 MHz, or above 800 MHz and meeting the requirements of § 90.119(b).

(13) Except for applications for the frequencies set forth in § 90.719(c) and § 90.720, applications for frequencies in the 220-222 MHz band.

(14) Applications for a state license under § 90.529.

(15) Applications for narrowband low power channels listed for itinerant use in § 90.531(b)(4).

(16) Applications for DSRCS licenses (as well as registrations for Roadside Units) under subpart M of this part in the 5895-5925 MHz band.

(17) Applications for the deletion of a frequency and/or transmitter site location.

(18) Applications for base, mobile, or control stations in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.

(19) Applications filed exclusively to return channels that had been authorized for commercial operation pursuant to § 90.621(e) or (f) to non-commercial operation (including removal of the authorization to interconnect with the public switched telephone network).

(20) Applications for a reduction in the currently authorized emission bandwidth or a deletion of an existing emission designator.

(21) Applications for a reduction in antenna height or authorized power.

(22) [Reserved]
