
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Policies Governing the Assignment of Frequencies
###### ยง 90.187 Trunking in the bands between 150 and 512 MHz.
####### Channel limits.

(g)(1) No more than 10 channels for new centralized trunked operation in the Industrial/Business Pool may be applied for at a single transmitter location or at locations with overlapping service contours as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Subsequent applications for centralized trunked operation are limited to no more than an additional 10 channels, and must be accompanied by a certification, submitted to the certified frequency coordinator coordinating the application, that all of the applicant's existing channels authorized for centralized trunked operation at that location or at locations with overlapping service contours have been constructed and placed in operation. Certified frequency coordinators are authorized to require documentation in support of the applicant's certification that existing channels have been constructed and placed in operation.

(2) Applicants for Public Safety Pool channels may request more than 10 centralized trunked channels at a single location or at locations with overlapping service contours if accompanied by a showing of sufficient need. The requirement for such a showing may be satisfied by submission of loading studies demonstrating that requested channels in excess of 10 will be loaded with 50 mobiles per channel within a five year period commencing with the grant of the application.

(h) If a licensee authorized for centralized trunked operation discontinues trunked operation for a period of 30 consecutive days, the licensee, within 7 days thereafter, shall file a conforming application for modification of license with the Commission.
