
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - General Technical Standards
###### ยง 90.203 Certification required.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (l) of this section, each transmitter utilized for operation under this part and each transmitter marketed as set forth in ยง 2.803 of this chapter must be of a type which has been certified for use under this part.

(1) Effective October 16, 2002, except in the 1427-1432 MHz band, an equipment approval may no longer be obtained for in-hospital medical telemetry equipment operating under the provisions of this part. The requirements for obtaining an approval for medical telemetry equipment after this date are found in subpart H of part 95 of this chapter.

(2) Effective July 5, 2022, an equipment approval may no longer be obtained for DSRCS equipment (RSUs and OBUs) operating under the provisions of this part.

(3) Any manufacturer of radio transmitting equipment (including signal boosters) to be used in these services may request certification for such equipment following the procedures set forth in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter. Certification for an individual transmitter or signal booster also may be requested by an applicant for a station authorization by following the procedure set forth in part 2 of this chapter. Such equipment if approved will be individually enumerated on the station authorization.

(b) Certification is not required for the following:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Transmitters used for police zone and interzone stations authorized as of January 1, 1965.

(3) Transmitting equipment used in the band 1427-1435 MHz.

(4) Transmitters used in radiolocation stations in accordance with subpart F authorized prior to January 1, 1974, for public safety and land transportation applications (old parts 89 and 93).

(5) Transmitters used in radiolocation stations in accordance with subpart F authorized for industrial applications (old part 91) prior to January 1, 1978.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Transmitters imported and marketed prior to September 1, 1996 for use by LMS systems.

(c) Radiolocation transmitters for use in public safety and land transportation applications marketed prior to January 1, 1974, must meet the applicable technical standards in this part, pursuant to ยง 2.803 of this chapter.

(d) Radiolocation transmitters for use in public safety and land transportation applications marketed after January 1, 1974, must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, transmitters designed to operate above 25 MHz shall not be certified for use under this part if the operator can program and transmit on frequencies, other than those programmed by the manufacturer, service or maintenance personnel, using the equipment's external operation controls.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, transmitters designed to operate above 25 MHz that have been approved prior to January 15, 1988, and that permit the operator, by using external controls, to program the transmitter's operating frequencies, shall not be manufactured in, or imported into the United States after March 15, 1988. Marketing of these transmitters shall not be permitted after March 15, 1989.

(g) Transmitters having frequency programming capability and that are designed to operate above 25 MHz are exempt from paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section if the design of such transmitters:

(1) Is such that transmitters with external controls normally available to the operator must be internally modified to place the equipment in the programmable mode. Further, while in the programmable mode, the equipment shall not be capable of transmitting. The procedures for making the modification and altering the frequency program shall not be made available with the operating information normally supplied to the end user of the equipment; or

(2) Requires the transmitter to be programmed for frequencies through controls normally inaccessible to the operator; or

(3) Requires equipment to be programmed for frequencies through use of external devices or specifically programmed modules made available only to service/maintenance personnel; or

(4) Requires equipment to be programmed through cloning (copying a program directly from another transmitter) using devices and procedures made available only to service/maintenance personnel.

(h) The requirements of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section shall not apply if:

(1) The equipment has been designed and manufactured specifically for aircraft use; and

(2) The part 90 certification limits the use of the equipment to operations only under ยง 90.423.
