
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Policies Governing the Assignment of Frequencies
###### ยง 90.187 Trunking in the bands between 150 and 512 MHz.
####### Contour overlap.

(ii)(A) Licensees (and filers of previously filed pending applications) with a service contour (37 dBu for stations in the 150-174 MHz band, and 39 dBu for stations in the 421-512 MHz band) that is overlapped by the proposed centralized trunked station's interference contour (19 dBu for stations in the 150-174 MHz band, and 21 dBu for stations in the 421-512 MHz band). Contour calculations are required for base station facilities. Contour calculations are required for associated mobile stations only in the 150-174 MHz band, with the associated base station's service contour used as both the mobile station's service contour and its interference contour.

(B) The calculation of service and interference contours shall be performed using generally accepted engineering practices and standards, including appropriate derating factors, agreed to by a consensus of all certified frequency coordinators. Frequency coordinators shall make this information available to the Commission upon request.

(C) For purposes of this section, the authorized operating area of a station or proposed station with no associated base station shall be used as both the station's service contour and its interference contour.

(D) After January 1, 2013, licensees with an authorized bandwidth exceeding 12.5 kHz will not be deemed affected licensees, unless the licensee meets the efficiency standard set forth in ยง 90.203(j)(3) or the licensee was granted a waiver of ยง 90.209(b).

(2) The written consent from an affected licensee shall state all terms agreed to by the parties and shall be signed by the parties. The written consent shall be maintained by the operator of the centralized trunked station and be made available to the Commission upon request. An application for a centralized trunked station shall include either a certification from the applicant that written consent has been obtained from all affected licensees, or a certification from the frequency coordinator that there are no affected licensees.

(3) In addition, the service contour for proposed centralized trunked stations on Industrial/Business Pool frequencies shall not be overlapped by an incumbent licensee's interference contour. An application filed for Public Safety Pool frequencies, see ยง 90.20, for a proposed centralized trunked station in which the service contour of the proposed station is overlapped by the interference contour of the incumbent station(s) is allowed, but the applicant must accept any resultant interference.

(e) The exclusive service area of a station that has been authorized for centralized trunked operation will be protected from proposed centralized trunked, decentralized trunked or conventional operations in accordance with the standards of paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) Trunking of systems licensed on paging-only channels or licensed in the Radiolocation Service (subpart F) is not permitted.
