
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - General Technical Standards
###### ยง 90.210 Emission masks.
####### Emission Mask E-6.25 kHz or less channel bandwidth equipment.

(e)For transmitters designed to operate with a 6.25 kHz or less bandwidth, any emission must be attenuated below the power (P) of the highest emission contained within the authorized bandwidth as follows:

(1) On any frequency from the center of the authorized bandwidth fto 3.0 kHz removed from f: Zero dB.

(2) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fin kHz) of more than 3.0 kHz but no more than 4.6 kHz: At least 30 + 16.67(f-3 kHz) or 55 + 10 log (P) or 65 dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation.

(3) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 4.6 kHz: At least 55 + 10 log (P) or 65 dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation.

(4) The reference level for showing compliance with the emission mask shall be established using a resolution bandwidth sufficiently wide (usually two or three times the channel bandwidth) to capture the true peak emission of the equipment under test. In order to show compliance with the emission mask up to and including 50 kHz removed from the edge of the authorized bandwidth, adjust the resolution bandwidth to 100 Hz with the measuring instrument in a peak hold mode. A sufficient number of sweeps must be measured to insure that the emission profile is developed. If video filtering is used, its bandwidth must not be less than the instrument resolution bandwidth. For emissions beyond 50 kHz from the edge of the authorized bandwidth, see paragraph (o) of this section. If it can be shown that use of the above instrumentation settings do not accurately represent the true interference potential of the equipment under test, an alternate procedure may be used provided prior Commission approval is obtained.
