
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - General Technical Standards
###### ยง 90.210 Emission masks.
####### Emission Mask L.

(l)For low power transmitters (20 dBm or less) operating in the 4940-4990 MHz frequency band, the power spectral density of the emissions must be attenuated below the output power of the transmitter as follows:

(1) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency between 0-45% of the authorized bandwidth (BW): 0 dB.

(2) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency between 45-50% of the authorized bandwidth: 219 log (% of (BW)/45) dB.

(3) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency between 50-55% of the authorized bandwidth: 10 + 242 log (% of (BW)/50) dB.

(4) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency between 55-100% of the authorized bandwidth: 20 + 31 log (% of (BW)/55) dB attenuation.

(5) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency between 100-150% of the authorized bandwidth: 28 + 68 log (% of (BW)/100) dB attenuation.

(6) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency above 150% of the authorized bandwidth: 40 dB.

(7) The zero dB reference is measured relative to the highest average power of the fundamental emission measured across the designated channel bandwidth using a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the occupied bandwidth of the fundamental emission and a video bandwidth of 30 kHz. The power spectral density is the power measured within the resolution bandwidth of the measurement device divided by the resolution bandwidth of the measurement device. Emission levels are also based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the occupied bandwidth.
