
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Non-Voice and Other Specialized Operations
###### ยง 90.248 Wildlife and ocean buoy tracking.
####### Frequency stability.

(e)(1) For transmitters operating in the 40.66-40.70 MHz frequency band, the frequency stability shall be sufficient to ensure that, at the carrier frequency employed, the sum of the authorized bandwidth plus the bandwidth required for frequency stability are confined within this band.

(2) In the 216-220 MHz frequency band, transmitters shall employ a minimum frequency stability of 0.005 percent (50 parts per million). The carrier frequency shall be selected to ensure that the sum of the authorized bandwidth plus the bandwidth required for frequency stability are confined within this band.

(3) The frequency stability standards shall be met over a temperature range of -30&#xB0; to + 50&#xB0; centigrade at normal supply voltage and for a variation in the primary supply voltage from 85% to 115% of the rated supply voltage at a temperature of + 20 &#xB0;C. For battery operated equipment, the equipment tests shall be performed using a new battery.

(f) The maximum peak transmitter output (carrier) power shall not exceed 1 milliwatt for airborne wildlife applications, 10 milliwatts for terrestrial wildlife applications or 100 milliwatts for ocean buoys.

(g) Emissions appearing outside of the authorized bandwidth shall be attenuated below the carrier power by at least 26 dB, following the procedures specified in ยง 90.210(m).
