
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Non-Voice and Other Specialized Operations
###### § 90.242 Travelers' information stations.

(a) The frequencies 530 through 1700 kHz in 10 kHz increments may be assigned to the Public Safety Pool for the operation of Travelers' Information Stations subject to the following conditions and limitations.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Each application for a station or system shall be accompanied by:

(i) A statement certifying that the transmitting site of the Travelers' Information Station will be located at least 15 km (9.3 miles) measured orthogonally outside the measured 0.5 mV/m daytime contour (0.1 mV/m for Class A stations) of any AM broadcast station operating on a first adjacent channel or at least 130 km (80.6 miles) outside the measured 0.5 mV/m daytime contour (0.1 mV/m for Class A stations) of any AM broadcast station operating on the same channel, or, if nighttime operation is proposed, outside the theoretical 0.5 mV/m-50% nighttime skywave contour of a U.S. Class A station. If the measured contour is not available, then the calculated 0.5 mV/m field strength contour shall be acceptable. These contours are available at the concerned AM broadcast station and FCC offices in Washington, DC.

(ii) In consideration of possible cross-modulation and inter-modulation interference effects which may result from the operation of a Travelers' Information Station in the vicinity of an AM broadcast station on the second or third adjacent channel, the applicant shall certify that it has considered these possible effects and, to the best of its knowledge, does not foresee interference occurring to broadcast stations operating on second or third adjacent channels.

(iii) A map showing the geographical location of each transmitter site and an estimate of the signal strength at the contour of the desired coverage area. For a cable system, the contour to be shown is the estimated field strength at 60 meters (197 feet) from any point on the cable. For a conventional radiating antenna, the estimated field strength contour at 1.5 km (0.93 mile) shall be shown. A contour map comprised of actual on-the-air measurements shall be submitted to the Commission within 60 days after station authorization or completion of station construction, whichever occurs later. A sufficient number of points shall be chosen at the specified distances (extrapolated measurements are acceptable) to adequately show compliance with the field strength limits.

(iv) For each transmitter site, the transmitter's output power, the type of antenna utilized, its length (for a cable system), its height above ground, distance from transmitter to the antenna, and the elevation above sea level at the transmitting site.

(3) Travelers' Information Stations will be authorized on a primary basis on 530 kHz and on a secondary basis to stations authorized on a primary basis in the band 535-1705 kHz.

(4) A Travelers' Information Station authorization may be suspended, modified, or withdrawn by the Commission without prior notice or right to hearing if necessary to resolve interference conflicts, to implement agreements with foreign governments, or in other circumstances warranting such action.

(5) The transmitting site of each Travelers' Information Station shall be restricted to the immediate vicinity of the following specified areas: Air, train, and bus transportation terminals, public parks and historical sites, bridges, tunnels, and any intersection of a Federal Interstate Highway with any other Interstate, Federal, State, or local highway.

(6) A Travelers' Information Station shall normally be authorized to use a single transmitter. However, a system of stations, with each station in the system employing a separate transmitter, may be authorized for a specific area provided sufficient need is demonstrated by the applicant.

(7) Travelers' Information Stations shall transmit only noncommercial voice information pertaining to traffic and road conditions, traffic hazard and travel advisories, directions, availability of lodging, rest stops and service stations, and descriptions of local points of interest. It is not permissible to identify the commercial name of any business establishment whose service may be available within or outside the coverage area of a Travelers' Information Station. However, to facilitate announcements concerning departures/arrivals and parking areas at air, train, and bus terminals, the trade name identification of carriers is permitted. Travelers' Information Stations may also transmit information in accordance with the provisions of §§ 90.405 and 90.407.
