
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Non-Voice and Other Specialized Operations
###### ยง 90.242 Travelers' information stations.
####### Technical standards.

(b)(1) The use of 6K00A3E emission will be authorized, however N0N emission may be used for purposes of receiver quieting, but only for a system of stations employing "leaky" cable antennas.

(2) A frequency tolerance of 100 Hz shall be maintained.

(3) For a station employing a cable antenna, the following restrictions apply:

(i) The length of the cable antenna shall not exceed 3.0 km (1.9 miles).

(ii) Transmitter RF output power shall not exceed 50 watts and shall be adjustable downward to enable the user to comply with the specified field strength limit.

(iii) The field strength of the emission on the operating frequency shall not exceed 2 mV/m when measured with a standard field strength meter at a distance of 60 meters (197 feet) from any part of the station.

(4) For a station employing a conventional radiating antenna(s) (ex. vertical monopole, directional array) the following restrictions apply:

(i) The antenna height above ground level shall not exceed 15.0 meters (49.2 feet).

(ii) Only vertical polarization of antennas shall be permitted.

(iii) Transmitter RF output power shall not exceed 10 watts to enable the user to comply with the specified field strength limit.

(iv) The field strength of the emission on the operating frequency shall not exceed 2 mV/m when measured with a standard field strength meter at a distance of 1.50 km (0.93 miles) from the transmitting antenna system.

(5) For co-channel stations operating under different licenses, the following minimum separation distances shall apply:

(i) 0.50 km (0.31 miles) for the case when both stations are using cable antennas.

(ii) 7.50 km (4.66 miles) for the case when one station is using a conventional antenna and the other is using a cable antenna.

(iii) 15.0 km (9.3 miles) for the case when both stations are using conventional antennas.

(6) For a system of co-channel transmitters operating under a single authorization utilizing either cable or conventional antennas, or both, no minimum separation distance is required.

(7) An applicant desiring to locate a station that does not comply with the separation requirements of this section shall coordinate with the affected station.

(8) Each transmitter in a Travelers' Information Station shall be equipped with an audio low-pass filter. Such filter shall be installed either at the transmitter's audio input or between the modulation limiter and the modulated stage. At audio frequencies between 5 kHz and 20 kHz this filter shall have an attenuation greater than the attenuation at 1 kHz by at least:
