
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Standards for Special Frequencies or Frequency Bands
###### ยง 90.259 Assignment and use of frequencies in the bands 216-220 MHz and 1427-1432 MHz.
####### Locations:

(4)(i) Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-Counties of Westmoreland, Washington, Beaver, Allegheny and Butler;

(ii) Washington, DC metropolitan area-Counties of Montgomery, Prince George's and Charles in Maryland; Counties of Arlington, Prince William, Fauquier, Loudon, and Fairfax, and Cities of Alexandria, Falls Church, Fairfax, Manassas and Manassas Park in Virginia; and District of Columbia;

(iii) Richmond/Norfolk, Virginia-Counties of Charles City, Chesterfield, Dinwiddie, Goochland, Hanover, Henrico, Isle of Wight, James City, New Kent, Powhatan, Prince George, Southhampton, Surrey, Sussex, and York; Cities of Chesapeake, Colonial Heights, Franklin, Hampton, Hopewell, Newport News, Norfolk, Petersburg, Poquoson, Portsmouth, Richmond, Suffolk, Virginia Beach, and Williamsburg;

(iv) Austin/Georgetown, Texas-Counties of Williamson and Travis;

(v) Battle Creek, Michigan-County of Calhoun;

(vi) Detroit, Michigan-Counties of Oakland, Wayne, Washtenaw, Macomb and Livingston;

(vii) Spokane, Washington-Counties of Spokane, WA and Kootenai, ID.

(5) All operations in the 1429.5-1432 MHz band authorized prior to April 12, 2002 are on a secondary basis.

(6) For secondary operations only fixed stations are permitted. At the locations specified in (b)(4) of this section, secondary operations are performed in the 1429-1431.5 MHz band. For all other locations, secondary operations are performed in the 1427-1429.5 MHz band. The maximum power is 1 watt EIRP.

(7) For primary operations base, mobile, operational fixed and temporary fixed operations are permitted.

(i) At the locations specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, primary operations are performed in the 1427-1429 MHz and 1431.5-1432 MHz bands. The maximum ERP limitations are as follows:

(ii) For all other locations, primary operations are performed in the 1429.5-1432 MHz band. The maximum ERP limitations are as follows:

(8) Wide area operations will not be authorized. The area of normal day-to-day operations will be described in the application in terms of maximum distance from a geographical center (latitude and longitude).

(9) Assignable frequencies occur in increments of 12.5 kHz from 1427.00625 MHz to 1431.99375 MHz.

(10) Licensees, however, may combine contiguous channels up to 50 kHz, and more than 50 kHz only upon a showing of adequate justification.

(11) For any operation in the 1427-1432 MHz band, the predicted or measured field strength-in the WMTS primary band-at the location of any registered WMTS healthcare facility shall not exceed 150 uV/m. For the locations specified in (b)(4) of this section, WMTS is primary in the 1429-1431.5 MHz band. For all other locations, WMTS is primary in the 1427-1429.5 MHz band.
