
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Standards for Special Frequencies or Frequency Bands
###### § 90.267 Assignment and use of frequencies in the 450-470 MHz band for low power use.
####### Group A1 Frequencies.

(b)The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group A1 are available on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b), as follows:

(1) Group A1 frequencies are available for voice and non-voice operations on a co-primary basis. Base, mobile and operational fixed stations will be authorized on Group A1 frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Within 80 kilometers (50 miles) of the specified coordinates of the top 100 urban areas listed in § 90.741 of this chapter ("80 km circles") only low power operation will be authorized. The coordinates of an operational fixed or base station and the geographic center (latitude and longitude) of a mobile area of operation determine whether a station is within an "80 km circle."

(i) The maximum ERP for low power operation on Group A1 frequencies is as follows:

(ii) The maximum antenna height for low power fixed stations on Group A1 frequencies will be 23 meters (75 feet) above ground.

(3) Outside the "80 km circles" defined in paragraph (b)(2), full-power operational fixed, base, or mobile stations will be authorized as follows:

(i) Power and antenna height limits are governed by § 90.205 of this chapter;

(ii) For any operational fixed, base or mobile station exceeding the low power or antenna height limits listed in paragraph (b)(2), the 21 dBu F(50,10) contour may not overlap any portion of an "80 km circle;" and,

(iii) Wide area operations will not be permitted. The area of normal day-to-day operations will be described in the application in terms of maximum distance from a geographic center (latitude and longitude).

(4) The Industrial/Business Pool Group A1 Low Power Frequencies are as follows:
