
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Standards for Special Frequencies or Frequency Bands
###### § 90.267 Assignment and use of frequencies in the 450-470 MHz band for low power use.
####### Low Power Public Safety Frequencies.

(g)The frequencies in the Public Safety Pool Low Power Group are available nationwide on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.20(c)(2) and 90.175(b).

(1) Base, mobile or operational fixed stations will be authorized on Public Safety Low Power frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Operation on these frequencies is limited to 6 watts effective radiated power for base, mobile or operational fixed stations and 2 watts ERP for portable units. A maximum antenna height of 7 meters (20 feet) above ground is authorized for fixed stations.

(3) The Public Safety Pool Low Power Frequencies are as follows:

(h) Unless otherwise noted, the following conditions apply to all low power frequencies:

(1) Except for itinerant operations on Group C, wide area operations will not be authorized. The area of normal day-to-day operations will be described in the application in terms of maximum distance from a geographic center (latitude and longitude).

(2) A hospital or health care institution holding a license to operate a radio station under this part may operate a medical radio telemetry device with an output power not to exceed 20 milliwatts without specific authorization from the Commission. All licensees operating under this authority must comply with the requirements and limitations set forth in this section.

(3) No limit shall be placed on the length or height above ground level of any commercially manufactured radiating transmission line when the transmission line is terminated in a non-radiating load and is routed at least 7 meters (20 feet) interior to the edge of any structure or is routed below ground level.

(4) Sea-based stations may utilize antennas mounted not more than 7 meters (20 feet) above a man-made supporting structure, including antenna structures.

(5) Continuous carrier operations are prohibited on these frequencies.

(6) Unless specified elsewhere in this part, licensees as of August 5, 1999, licensed for operations with an emission designator wider than 11.25 kHz on low power frequencies that are subject to an authorized bandwidth of 11.25 kHz, may obtain primary status with respect to co-channel licensees by supplying their coordinates to the Commission. These licensees will continue to operate on a secondary basis with respect to adjacent channel licensees. Additionally, these licensees may continue to operate with an authorized bandwidth wider than 11.25 kHz on such low power frequencies, subject to the provisions of § 90.209(b) of this chapter.

(7) Unless specified elsewhere in this part, licensees as of August 5, 1999, licensed for operations with an emission designator wider than 11.25 kHz on frequencies that are subject to an authorized bandwidth of 11.25 kHz, which are not low power frequencies, may obtain primary status with respect to co-channel licensees by modifying their license to low power frequencies, supplying their coordinates to the Commission, and otherwise complying with the conditions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. These licensees will continue to operate on a secondary basis with respect to adjacent channel licensees. Additionally, these licensees may continue to operate with an authorized bandwidth wider than 11.25 kHz on such low power frequencies, subject to the provisions of § 90.209(b) of this chapter.

(8) Applicants proposing to operate with an authorized bandwidth wider than 11.25 kHz, on low power frequencies that are subject to an authorized bandwidth of 11.25 kHz, may be licensed on a secondary, non-interference basis. Such applicants are subject to the conditions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section and the provisions of § 90.209(b) of this chapter.
