
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Standards for Special Frequencies or Frequency Bands
###### § 90.267 Assignment and use of frequencies in the 450-470 MHz band for low power use.
####### Group D Frequencies.

(f)The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group D are available on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b). Central station alarm signaling on these frequencies are co-primary with regard to co-channel or adjacent channel base, mobile or data operations.

(1) Base, mobile or operational fixed stations will be authorized on Group D frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Unless concurrence is obtained in accordance with section 90.175(b) of this chapter from the Commission-certified frequency coordinator for frequencies designated for central station alarm operations, Group D frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(63) are limited to central station alarm use within the urban areas described in § 90.35(c)(63). Outside the urban areas described in § 90.35(c)(63), Group D frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(63) are available for general Industrial/Business use on a coordinated basis, pursuant to § 90.35(b)(2) and § 90.175(b).

(3) Unless concurrence is obtained in accordance with section 90.175(b) of this chapter from the Commission-certified frequency coordinator for frequencies designated for central station alarm operations, Group D frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(66) are limited to central station alarm use nationwide.

(4) Operation on Group D frequencies is limited to 2 watts output power for mobile, base or operational fixed stations. Fixed stations used for central station alarm operations may utilize antennas mounted not more than 7 meters (20 feet) above a man-made supporting structure, including antenna structure.

(5) The Industrial/Business Pool Group D Low Power Frequencies are as follows:
