
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Intelligent Transportation Systems Radio Service
###### Regulations Governing the Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 5895-5925 MHz Band for Dedicated Short-Range Communications Service (DSRCS)
####### ยง 90.371 Dedicated short range communications service.

(a) These provisions pertain to systems in the 5850-5925 MHz band for Dedicated Short-Range Communications Service (DSRCS). DSRCS systems use radio techniques to transfer data over short distances between roadside and mobile units, between mobile units, and between portable and mobile units to perform operations related to the improvement of traffic flow, traffic safety, and other intelligent transportation service applications in a variety of environments. DSRCS systems may also transmit status and instructional messages related to the units involved. DSRCS Roadside Units are authorized under this part. DSRCS On-Board Units are authorized under part 95 of this chapter.

(b) DSRCS Roadside Units (RSUs) operating in the band 5850-5925 MHz shall not receive protection from Government Radiolocation services in operation prior to the establishment of the DSRCS station. Operation of DSRCS RSU stations within the radius centered on the locations listed in the table below must be coordinated through the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.

(c) NTIA may authorize additional station assignments in the federal radiolocation service and may amend, modify, or revoke existing or additional assignments for such service. Once a federal assignment action is taken, the Commission's Universal Licensing System database will be updated accordingly and the list in paragraph (b) of this section will be updated as soon as practicable.
