
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Intelligent Transportation Systems Radio Service
###### ยง 90.353 LMS operations in the 902-928 MHz band.
####### See

(c) LMS systems may utilize store and forward interconnection, where either transmissions from a vehicle or object being monitored are stored by the LMS provider for later transmission over the public switched network (PSN), or transmissions received by the LMS provider from the PSN are stored for later transmission to the vehicle or object being monitored. Real-time interconnection between vehicles or objects being monitored and the PSN will only be permitted to enable emergency communications related to a vehicle or a passenger in a vehicle. Such real-time, interconnected communications may only be sent to or received from a system dispatch point or entities eligible in the Public Safety or Special Emergency Radio Services.subparts B and C of this part.

(d) Multilateration LMS systems will be authorized on a primary basis within the bands 904-909.75 MHz and 921.75-927.25 MHz. Additionally, multilateration and non-multilateration systems will share the 919.75-921.75 MHz band on a co-equal basis. Licensing will be on the basis of Economic Areas (EAs) for multilateration systems, with one exclusive EA license being issued for each of these three sub-bands. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, multilateration EA licensees may be authorized to operate on only one of the three multilateration bands within a given EA. Additionally, EA multilateration LMS licenses will be conditioned upon the licensee's ability to demonstrate through actual field tests that their systems do not cause unacceptable levels of interference to 47 CFR part 15 devices.
