
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Intelligent Transportation Systems Radio Service
###### ยง 90.353 LMS operations in the 902-928 MHz band.
####### see

(f) Multilateration EA licensees may be authorized to operate on both the 919.75-921.75 MHz and 921.75-927.75 MHz bands within a given EA (ยง 90.209(b)(5)).

(g) Multilateration LMS systems whose primary operations involve the provision of vehicle location services, may provide non-vehicular location services.

(h) Non-multilateration stations are authorized to operate on a shared, non-exclusive basis in the 902-904 MHz and 909.75-921.75 MHz sub-bands. Non-multilateration systems and multilateration systems will share the 919.75-921.75 MHz band on a co-equal basis. Non-multilateration LMS systems may not provide non-vehicular location services. The maximum antenna height above ground for non-multilateration LMS systems is 15 meters.

(i) Non-multilateration LMS licenses will be issued on a site-by-site basis, except that municipalities or other governmental operatives may file jointly for a non-multilateration license covering a given U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis Economic Area (EA). Such an application must identify all planned sites. After receiving the license, the non-multilateration EA licensee must notify the Commission if sites are deleted or if new sites are added, before those sites may be put into operation.
