
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Operating Requirements
###### ยง 90.425 Station identification.
####### Use of an identifier other than the assigned call sign.

(4)(i) In the Public Safety Pool, mobile units licensed to a governmental entity and which operate on frequencies above 30 MHz may use an identifier which contains, at a minimum, the name of the licensee if the licensee maintains at the station a list of the special identifiers to be used by the mobile units.

(ii) In the Industrial/Business Pool, licensees may request the Commission's Wireless Telecommunications Bureau to approve the use of special mobile unit identifiers in lieu of the assigned call sign. Such requests, however, will not be granted where it appears that harmful interference to international operations may be caused by stations below 50 MHz, or by stations operating in areas within 80 km (50 miles) of an international boundary, or where it appears that the proposed method of identification will not adequately distinguish the mobile units of the applicant from the mobile units of other licensees in the area.

(iii) In the Industrial/Business Pool, railroad licensees (as defined in ยง 90.7) may identify stations by the name of the railroad and the train number, caboose number, engine number, or the name of the fixed wayside station. If none of these forms is practicable, any similar name or number may be designated by the railroad concerned for use by its employees in the identification of fixed points or mobile units, provided that a list of such identifiers is maintained by the railroad. An abbreviated name or the initials of the railroad may be used where such are in general usage. In those areas where it is shown that no difficulty would be encountered in identifying the transmission of a particular station (as, for example, where stations of one licensee are located in a yard isolated from other radio installations), approval may be given to a request from the licensee for permission to omit the station identification.
