
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Operating Requirements
###### ยง 90.425 Station identification.
####### Identification procedure.

(a)Except as provided for in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, each station or system shall be identified by the transmission of the assigned call sign during each transmission or exchange of transmissions, or once each 15 minutes (30 minutes in the Public Safety Pool) during periods of continuous operation. The call sign shall be transmitted by voice in the English language or by International Morse Code in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. If the station is employing either analog or digital voice scrambling, or non-voice emission, transmission of the required identification shall be in the unscrambled mode using A3E, F3E or G3E emission, or International Morse, with all encoding disabled. Permissible alternative identification procedures are as follows:

(1) A mobile relay stations call sign may be used to identify the associated control and mobile stations, except in the Public Safety Pool where the stations operate on frequencies below 450 MHz. Alternatively, a base station (including a mobile relay station) which is controlled by radio may be identified by the transmission of the call sign of the station at which communications originate.

(2) One or more fixed relay stations may be identified by the transmission of the call signs of the stations at which the communications originate.

(3) When a mobile station transmits on a different frequency than its associated base station, the assigned call sign of either the mobile station or the base station may be transmitted. Further, a single mobile unit in the licensee's authorized geographic area of operation may transmit station identification on behalf of any other operating mobile units in the fleet.
