
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart N - Operating Requirements
###### ยง 90.425 Station identification.
####### General exemptions.

(d)A station need not transmit identification if:

(1) It is a mobile station operating on the transmitting frequency of the associated base station.

(2) It is a mobile station in the Public Safety Pool using F1E or G1E emission.

(3) It is transmitting for telemetering purposes or for the activation of devices which are employed solely as a means of attracting attention, or for remote control purposes, or which is retransmitting by self-actuating means, a radio signal received from another radio station or stations.

(4) It is any type of radiopositioning or radar station authorized in a service other than the Radiolocation Service.

(5) It is used solely for automatic vehicle monitoring or location.

(6) It is a paging station authorized in accordance with the provisions of ยง 90.20(a)(2)(v).

(7) It is a mobile station employing non-voice emissions and the associated base station identifies on behalf of the mobile unit(s).

(8) It is a base or mobile station in the 220-222 MHz band authorized to operate on a nationwide basis in accordance with subpart T of this part.

(9) It is a wireless microphone station operating in accordance with the provisions of ยง 90.265(b).

(10) It is a Roadside Unit in a DSRCS system.

(e) Special provisions for stations licensed under this part that are classified as CMRS providers under part 20 of this chapter.

(1) Station identification will not be required for 929-930 MHz nationwide paging licensees or MTA or EA-based SMR licensees. All other CMRS stations will be required to comply with the station identification requirements of this paragraph.

(2) CMRS stations subject to a station identification requirement will be permitted to use a single call sign for commonly owned facilities that are operated as part of a single system. The call sign must be transmitted each hour within five minutes of the hour, or upon completion of the first transmission after the hour.

(3) CMRS stations granted exclusive channels may transmit their call signs digitally. A licensee that identifies its call sign in this manner must provide the Commission, upon request, information sufficient to decode the digital transmission and ascertain the call sign transmitted.

(f) Special provisions for stations licensed under this part that are not classified as CMRS providers under part 20 of this chapter.

(1) Stations subject to a station identification requirement will be permitted to use a single call sign for commonly owned facilities that are operated as part of a single system.

(2) Stations licensed on an exclusive basis in the bands between 150 and 512 MHz that normally employ digital signals for the transmission of data, text, control codes, or digitized voice may be identified by digital transmission of the call sign. A licensee that identifies its call sign in this manner must provide the Commission, upon request, information sufficient to decode the digital transmission and ascertain the call sign transmitted.
