
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart R - Regulations Governing the Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 763-775 and 793-805 MHz Bands
###### ยง 90.527 Regional plan requirements.
####### Modification of regional plans.

(b)Regional plans may be modified by submitting a written request, signed by the regional planning committee, to the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau. The request must contain the full text of the modification. Modifications are considered either major or minor. Regional planning committees must certify that successful coordination with all adjacent regions has occurred for major modifications and that all such regions concur with the major modification. Unless requested otherwise by the regional planning committee, the Bureau will only place major modifications on public notice for comment.

(1) Except as noted below, modifications changing the way channels are allocated, allotted or coordinated are considered major modifications.

(2) Modifications changing how channels are allotted are considered minor modifications only if:

(i) The proposed channel change or channel addition involves a facility located more than seventy miles from the adjacent region border;

(ii) The co-channel or adjacent channel interference contour of the facility changing or adding the channel does not intersect the border of an adjacent region, or

(iii) The proposed channel change or channel addition has been coordinated in writing with any affected adjacent region.

(3) Changes in membership or leadership of regional planning committees are considered minor modifications.
