
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart R - Regulations Governing the Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 763-775 and 793-805 MHz Bands
###### ยง 90.543 Emission limitations.
####### Authorized bandwidth.

(d)Provided that the ACP requirements of this section are met, applicants may request any authorized bandwidth that does not exceed the channel size.

(e) For operations in the 758-768 MHz and the 788-798 MHz bands, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, in accordance with the following:

(1) On all frequencies between 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 76 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for base and fixed stations.

(2) On all frequencies between 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 65 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for mobile and portable stations.

(3) On any frequency between 775-788 MHz, above 805 MHz, and below 758 MHz, by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB.

(4) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation such that the reading taken with any resolution bandwidth setting should be adjusted to indicate spectral energy in a 6.25 kHz segment.

(5) Compliance with the provisions of paragraph (e)(3) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 100 kHz or greater. However, in the 100 kHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of 30 kHz may be employed.

(f) For operations in the 758-775 MHz and 788-805 MHz bands, all emissions including harmonics in the band 1559-1610 MHz shall be limited to -70 dBW/MHz equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) for wideband signals, and -80 dBW EIRP for discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth. For the purpose of equipment authorization, a transmitter shall be tested with an antenna that is representative of the type that will be used with the equipment in normal operation.

(g) When an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in this section.
