
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Processing of Applications and the Selection and Assignment of Frequencies for Use in the 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, and 935-940 MHz Bands
####### § 90.619 Operations within the U.S./Mexico and U.S./Canada border areas.
######## Use of frequencies in 800 MHz band in Mexico border region.

(a)All operations in the 806-824/851-869 MHz band within 110 km (68.35 miles) of the U.S./Mexico border ("Sharing Zone") shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Mexico.

(1) The U.S. and Mexico divide primary access to channels in the Sharing Zone as indicated in Table A1 below.

(2) Stations authorized on U.S. primary channels in the Sharing Zone are subject to the effective radiated power (ERP) and antenna height limits listed below in Table A2.

(3) Stations may be authorized on channels primary to Mexico in the Sharing Zone provided the maximum power flux density (PFD) at any point at or beyond the border does not exceed -107 db(W/m) per 25 kHz of bandwidth. Licensees may exceed this value only if all potentially affected counterpart operators in the other country agree to a higher PFD level.

(4) Stations authorized on U.S.-Mexico co-primary channels in the Sharing Zone are permitted to exceed a maximum power flux density (PFD) of -107 db(W/m) per 25 kHz of bandwidth at any point at or beyond the border only if all potentially affected counterpart operators of 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, agree.

(5) Channels in the Sharing Zone are available for licensing as indicated in Table A3 to this paragraph (a)(5).

(i) Channel numbers 1-230 are also available to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category in the Canada Border Regions. The assignment of these channels will be done in accordance with the policies defined in the Report and Order of Gen. Docket No. 87-112 (See § 90.16). The following channels are available only for mutual aid purposes as defined in Gen. Docket No. 87-112: Channels 1, 39, 77, 115, 153. Mobile and portable radios operating on the mutual aid channels shall employ analog FM emission.

(ii) Channels 231-315a are available to applicants eligible in the Public Safety Category which consists of licensees eligible in the Public Safety Pool of subpart B of this part. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels.

(iii) Channels 316-550 are available in the General Category. All entities are eligible for licensing on these channels. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels.

(iv) Channels 551-830 are available to applicants eligible in the SMR category-which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. ESMR licensees who employ 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, are permitted to operate on these channels.
