
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Processing of Applications and the Selection and Assignment of Frequencies for Use in the 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, and 935-940 MHz Bands
####### § 90.619 Operations within the U.S./Mexico and U.S./Canada border areas.
######## Use of 900 MHz Band in Canada Border Region.

(d)All operations in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band within the Canada border region shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Canada. The following criteria shall govern the assignment of frequency pairs (channels) in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band for stations located in the U.S./Canada border area. They are available for assignments for conventional or trunked systems in accordance with applicable sections of this subpart.

(1) Except as specified in § 90.616, channels 1-399, as listed in § 90.613 table of 896-901/935-940 MHz Channel Designations, are available to eligible applicants for use in the U.S./Canada border area as shown in table 27.

(2) All frequency assignments made pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements of § 90.619(b).

(3) In Region 5, except as specified in § 90.616, channels 201-397 may be authorized in the United States under the following conditions:

(i) An assignment may be made if the predicted power flux density (PFD) of a proposed station's signal does not exceed -107 dBW/mat the border. The prediction of the PFD is calculated based upon a modified Longley-Rice point-to-point propagation model with time and location variabilities of 10 percentand 3-second digitized terrain date.

(ii) Authorizations for Channels 201-397 in Region 5 are secondary to Canadian operations and conditioned to require that licensees take immediate action to eliminate any harmful interference resulting from the station's transmitted signal exceeding -107 dBW/mat or beyond the U.S./Canada border.

(4) Except as specified in § 90.616, channel assignments for stations to be located in the geographical area in Region 1 enclosed by the United States-Canada border, the meridian 71&#xB0; W and the line beginning at the intersection of 44&#xB0;25&#x2032; N, 71&#xB0; W, then running by great circle arc to the intersection of 45&#xB0; N, 70&#xB0; W, then North along meridian 70&#xB0; W to the intersection of 45&#xB0;45&#x2032; N, then running West along 45&#xB0;45&#x2032; N to the intersection of the United States-Canada border, will be only for channels 121 through 160, inclusive, and will be limited to assignments with 11 kHz or less necessary bandwidth. Coordination with Canada will be required for these channels.

(5) Except as specified in § 90.616, channel assignments for stations to be located in the geographical area in Region 3 enclosed by the meridian of 81&#xB0; W longitude, the arc of a circle of 100 km radius centered at 42&#xB0;39&#x2032;30&#x2033; N latitude and 81&#xB0; W longitude at the northern shore of Lake Erie and drawn clockwise from the southerly intersection with 80&#xB0;30&#x2032; W longitude to intersect the United States-Canada border West of 81&#xB0; W, and the United States-Canada border, will be only for channels 121 through 230, inclusive, and will be limited to assignments with 11 kHz or less necessary bandwidth. Coordination with Canada will be required for these channels. U.S. stations must protect Canadian stations operating on channels 121 through 230 within an area of 30 km radius from the center city coordinates (referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)) of London, Ontario (42&#xB0;59&#x2032;00.1&#x2033; N, 81&#xB0;13&#x2032;59.5&#x2033; W).

(6) Additional channels available: Except as specified in § 90.616, the channels listed in table 28 are available for assignment in Regions 1-6 if the maximum power flux density (PFD) of the station's transmitted signal does not exceed the limits specified in tables 29 and 30 in this section. The spreading loss shall be calculated using the free space formula taking into account any antenna discrimination in the direction of the border.

Authorizations for stations using these channels will be secondary to Canadian operations and conditioned to require that licensees take immediate action to eliminate any harmful interference resulting from the station's transmitted signal exceeding the values specified in tables 29 or 30 at or beyond the U.S./Canada border.
