
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Processing of Applications and the Selection and Assignment of Frequencies for Use in the 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, and 935-940 MHz Bands
####### § 90.621 Selection and assignment of frequencies.
######## Letters of concurrence.

(4)Applicants may submit applications which cause overlap under the forward contour analysis described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section provided the applicant includes a letter of concurrence from each incumbent that receives contour overlap. In the letter of concurrence, the incumbent operator must agree to accept any interference that occurs as a result of the contour overlap. Applicants may also submit applications which receive contour overlap under the reciprocal analysis described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section provided the applicant includes a letter of concurrence from each incumbent that causes contour overlap. In this case, the incumbent operator must state in its letter of concurrence that it does not object to the applicant receiving contour overlap from the incumbent's facility.

(e) Frequencies in the 809-817/854-862 MHz bands listed as available for eligibles in the Public Safety and Business/Industrial/Land Transportation Categories are available for inter-category sharing under the following conditions:

(1) Channels in the Public Safety and Business/Industrial/Land Transportation categories will be available to eligible applicants in those categories only if there are no frequencies in their own category and no public safety systems are authorized on those channels under consideration to be shared.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(5) of this section, licensees of channels in the Business/Industrial/Land Transportation category may request a modification of the license, see § 1.947 of this chapter, to authorize use of the channels for commercial operation. The licensee may also, at the same time or thereafter, seek authorization to transfer or assign the license, see § 1.948 of this chapter, to any person eligible for licensing in the General or SMR categories. Applications submitted pursuant to this paragraph must be filed in accordance with the rules governing other applications for commercial channels, and will be processed in accordance with those rules. Grant of requests submitted pursuant to this paragraph is subject to the following conditions:

(i) A licensee that modifies its license to authorize commercial operations will not be authorized to obtain additional 800 MHz Business/Industrial/Land Transportation category channels for sites located within 113 km (70 mi.) of the station for which the license was modified, for a period of one year from the date the license is modified. This provision applies to the licensee, its controlling interests and their affiliates, as defined in § 1.2110 of this chapter.

(ii) With respect to licenses the initial application for which was filed on or after November 9, 2000, requests submitted pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section may not be filed until five years after the date of the initial license grant. In the case of a license that is modified on or after November 9, 2000 to add 800 MHz Business/Industrial/Land Transportation frequencies or to add or relocate base stations that expand the licensee's interference contour, requests submitted pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section for these frequencies or base stations may not be filed until five years after such modification.

(iii) Requests submitted pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section must include a certification that written notice of the modification application has been provided to all Public Safety licensees, see § 90.20(a), with base stations within 113 km (70 mi.) of the site of the channel(s) for which authorization for commercial use is sought that operate within 25 kHz of the center of those channel(s). If, pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, modification and assignment or transfer applications are filed at different times, the written notice required by this paragraph must be provided each time.
