
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Processing of Applications and the Selection and Assignment of Frequencies for Use in the 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, and 935-940 MHz Bands
####### § 90.619 Operations within the U.S./Mexico and U.S./Canada border areas.
######## Use of 800 MHz Band in Canada Border Region.

(c)All operations in the 806-824/851-869 MHz band within 140 km (87 miles) of the U.S./Canada border ("U.S./Canada border area") shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Canada.

(1) The U.S./Canada border area is divided into the following geographical regions ("Canada Border Regions"). U.S. primary channels are shown in the table by region. The remaining channels are primary to Canada ("Canada Primary channels").

(2) Stations authorized on U.S. primary channels in all Canada Border Regions, except Region 5, will be subject to the Effective Radiated Power (ERP) and Effective Antenna Height (EAH) limitations listed in Table C2. The Effective Antenna Height is calculated by subtracting the Assumed Average Terrain Elevation (AATE) listed in Table C3 from the antenna height above mean sea level.

(3) Stations authorized on U.S. primary channels in Canada Border Region 5 will be subject to the Effective Radiated Power (ERP) and Antenna Height Above Mean Sea Level limitations listed in Table C4.

(4) Stations may be authorized on Canada Primary channels in the Canada Border Regions provided the maximum power flux density (PFD) per 25 kHz at or beyond the border does not exceed -107 dB(W/m2). Stations authorized on Canada Primary channels will be secondary to stations in Canada unless otherwise specified in an international agreement between the U.S. and Canada.

(5) Stations authorized to operate within 30 kilometers of the center city coordinates listed in Table C5 may operate according to the band plan for Canadian Border Regions 7A and 7B as indicated below.

(6) The channels listed in Table C6 and paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section are available in the Canada Border Regions for non-cellular operations to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category which consists of licensees eligible in the Public Safety Pool of subpart B of this part. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels.

(i) Channel numbers 1-230 are also available to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category in the Canada Border Regions. The assignment of these channels will be done in accordance with the policies defined in the Report and Order of Gen. Docket No. 87-112 (See § 90.16). The following channels are available only for mutual aid purposes as defined in Gen. Docket No. 87-112: Channels 1, 39, 77, 115, 153. Mobile and portable radios operating on the mutual aid channels shall employ analog FM emission.

(ii) [Reserved]

(7) The channels listed in Table C7 are available in the Canada Border Regions for the General Category. All entities will be eligible for licensing on these channels. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are permitted on these channels only as indicated in Table C7. The channels noted for Regions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 where high density cellular systems are prohibited are all frequencies that are primary to Canada. Stations may be licensed on these Canada Primary channels according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(8) The channels listed in Table C8 are available in the Canada Border Regions to applicants eligible in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). 800 MHz cellular high density systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels.

(9) The channels listed in Table C9 are available in the Canada Border Regions to applicants eligible in the SMR category-which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, are prohibited on these channels.

(10) The channels listed in Table C10 are available in the Canada Border Regions to applicants eligible in the SMR category-which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. ESMR licensees who employ 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, are permitted to operate on these channels. Some of the channels listed in Table C10 are primary to Canada as indicated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. ESMR systems may be authorized on these Canada Primary channels according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(11) In Canada Border Regions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, the following General Category channels are available for licensing to all entities except as described below in paragraphs (c)(11)(i) and (c)(11)(ii): in Regions 1, 4, 5 and 6, channels 261-560; in Region 2, channels 231-620 and in Region 3, channels 321-500.

(i) In a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region, the General Category channels listed paragraph (c)(11) of this section which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 711-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available for licensing as follows:

(A) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category until three years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region;

(B) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories from three to five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region; and

(C) To all entities five years after release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region.

(ii) The General Category channels listed in paragraph (c)(11) of this section are primary to Canada. Stations may be authorized on these Canada Primary channels according to paragraph (c)(4).

(12) In Canada Border Regions 7A, 7B and 8, the following channels will be available as described in paragraphs (c)(12)(i) and (c)(12)(ii) of this section: for Canada Border Regions 7A and 8, channels 231-260 and channels below 471 in Tables C8 and C9; for Canada Border Region 7B all channels in Tables C8 and C9.

(i) In a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region, the channels listed paragraph (c)(12) of this section which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 511-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available as follows:

(A) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category until three years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region; and

(B) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories from three to five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region.

(ii) Five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region, the channels listed in paragraph (c)(12) of this section will revert back to their original pool categories.
