
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Processing of Applications and the Selection and Assignment of Frequencies for Use in the 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, and 935-940 MHz Bands
####### § 90.619 Operations within the U.S./Mexico and U.S./Canada border areas.
######## Use of frequencies in 900 MHz Band in Mexico border region.

(b)All operations in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band within the Mexico border region shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Mexico.

(1) Except as specified in § 90.616, the channels listed in Table 1 of this section are available to applicants eligible in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Specialized Mobile Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). These frequencies are available within the Mexico border region. Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) systems will not be authorized on these frequencies. For multi-channel systems, channels may be grouped vertically or horizontally as they appear in the following table. Channels numbered above 200 may be used only subject to the power flux density limits stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

(2) Except as specified in § 90.616, the channels listed in Table 2 of this section are available for operations only to eligibles in the SMR category-which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. These frequencies are available in the Mexico border region. The spectrum blocks listed in the table below are available for EA-based services according to § 90.681.

(3) The specific channels that are available for licensing in the band 896-901/935-940 MHz within the Mexico border region are subject to Effective Radiated Power (ERP) and Antenna Height limitations as indicated in Table 3 below.

(4) All channels in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band are available for assignment to U.S. stations within the Mexico border region if the maximum power flux density (pfd) of the station's transmitted signal at any point at or beyond the border does not exceed -107 dB (W/m). The spreading loss must be calculated using the free space formula taking into account any antenna discrimination in the direction of the border. Authorizations for stations using channels allotted to Mexico on a primary basis will be secondary to Mexican operations and conditioned to require that licensees take immediate action to eliminate any harmful interference resulting from the station's transmitted signal exceeding -107 dB (W/m).
