
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Licensing and Use of MTA-Based SMR Systems in the 896-901/935-940 MHz Band
####### ยง 90.667 Grandfathering provisions for incumbent licensees.

(a) These provisions apply to all 900 MHz SMR licensees who obtained licenses or filed applications for secondary sites on or before August 9, 1994 ("incumbent licensees"), as well as to all 900 MHz SMR licensees who obtained authorizations pursuant to ยง 90.173(k). An incumbent licensee's service area shall be defined by its originally-licensed 40 dBu field strength contour. Incumbent licensees are permitted to add new or modify transmit sites in this existing service area without prior notification to the Commission so long as their original 40 dBu field strength contour is not expanded.

(b) Incumbent licensees operating at multiple sites may, after grant of MTA licenses has been completed, exchange multiple site licenses for a single license, authorizing operations throughout the contiguous and overlapping 40 dBu field strength contours of the multiple sites. Incumbents exercising this license exchange option must submit specific information for each of their external base sites after the close of the 900 MHz SMR auction.

(c) Applications in the 900 MHz SMR service for secondary sites filed after August 9, 1994 shall be authorized on a secondary, non-interference basis to MTA licensee operations. No secondary sites shall be granted on this basis in an MTA once the MTA licensee has been selected.
