
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Procedures and Process - Unacceptable Interference
####### ยง 90.674 Interference resolution procedures.
######## Initial Notification.

(a)Any non-cellular licensee operating in the 806-824/851-869 MHz band who reasonably believes it is receiving unacceptable interference, as described in ยง 90.672, shall provide an initial notification of the interference incident. This initial notification of an interference incident shall be sent to all part 22 of this chapter Cellular Radiotelephone licensees and ESMR licensees who operate cellular base stations ("cell sites") within 1,524 meters (5,000 feet) of the interference incident.

(1) The initial notification of interference shall include the following information on interference:

(i) The specific geographical location where the interference occurs, and the time or times at which the interference occurred or is occurring;

(ii) A description of its scope and severity, including its source, if known;

(iii) The relevant Commission licensing information of the party suffering the interference; and

(iv) A single point of contact for the party suffering the interference.

(2) ESMR licensees, in conjunction with part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensees, shall establish an electronic means of receiving the initial notification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The electronic system must be designed so that all appropriate 800 MHz ESMR and part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensees can be contacted about the interference incident with a single notification. The electronic system for receipt of initial notification of interference complaints must be operating no later than February 22, 2005.

(3) ESMR licensees must respond to the initial notification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as soon as possible and no later than 24 hours of receipt of notification from a public safety/CII licensee. This response time may be extended to 48 hours after receipt from other non-cellular licensees provided affected communications on these systems are not safety related.
