
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Procedures and Process - Unacceptable Interference
####### ยง 90.674 Interference resolution procedures.
######## Mitigation Steps.

(c)(1) All 800 MHz cellular system licensees and part 22 of this chapter Cellular Radiotelephone licensees who are responsible for causing unacceptable interference shall take all affirmative measures to resolve such interference. 800 MHz cellular system licensees found to contribute to harmful interference, as defined in ยง 90.672, shall resolve such interference in the shortest time practicable. 800 MHz cellular system licensees and part 22 of this chapter Cellular Radiotelephone licensees must provide all necessary test apparatus and technical personnel skilled in the operation of such equipment as may be necessary to determine the most appropriate means of timely eliminating the interference. However, the means whereby interference is abated or the cell parameters that may need to be adjusted is left to the discretion of involved 800 MHz cellular system licensees and/or part 22 of this chapter Cellular Radiotelephone licensees, whose affirmative measures may include, but not be limited to, the following techniques:

(i) Increasing the desired power of the public safety signal;

(ii) Decreasing the power of the ESMR and/or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone signal;

(iii) Modifying the ESMR and/or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone systems antenna height;

(iv) Modifying the ESMR and/or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone system antenna characteristics;

(v) Incorporating filters into ESMR and/or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone system transmission equipment;

(vi) Permanently changing ESMR and/or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone system frequencies; and

(vii) Supplying interference-resistant receivers to the affected public safety licensee(s). If this technique is used, in all circumstances, the ESMR and/or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensees shall be responsible for all costs thereof.

(2) Whenever short-term interference abatement measures prove inadequate, the affected licensee shall, consistent with but not compromising safety, make all necessary concessions to accepting interference until a longer-term remedy can be implemented.
