
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Licensing and Use of EA-Based SMR Systems in the 809-824/851-869 MHz Band
####### § 90.685 Authorization, construction and implementation of EA licenses.
######## Channel use requirement.

(c)In addition to the population coverage requirements described in this section, we will require EA licensees in Channel blocks A, B and C in the 816-821/861-866 MHz band to construct 50 percent of the total channels included in their spectrum block in at least one location in their respective EA-based service area within three years of initial license grant and to retain such channel usage for the remainder of the construction period.

(d) An EA licensee's failure to meet the population coverage requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, will result in forfeiture of the entire EA license. Forfeiture of the EA license, however, would not result in the loss of any constructed facilities authorized to the licensee prior to the date of the commencement of the auction for the EA licenses.

(e) EA licensees operating on channels listed in § 90.614(b) and (c) must implement an Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio (ESMR) system-as defined in § 90.7-on their EA license and any associated site-based licenses prior to the expiration date of the EA license. EA licensees operating on these channels shall follow the construction notification procedures set forth in § 1.946(d) of this chapter. Failure to implement an ESMR system on their EA and site-based licenses before the expiration date of the EA license will result in termination of the EA license and any associated site-based licenses pursuant to § 1.946(c) of this chapter.
