
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Licensing and Use of EA-Based SMR Systems in the 809-824/851-869 MHz Band
####### ยง 90.699 Transition of the upper 200 channels in the 800 MHz band to EA licensing.
######## Quality of service.,e.g.,,e.g.

(3)Comparable facilities must provide the same quality of service as the facilities being replaced. Quality of service is defined to mean that the end user enjoys the same level of interference protection on the new system as on the old system. In addition, where voice service is provided, the voice quality on the new system must be equal to the current system. Finally, reliability of service is considered to be integral to defining quality of service. Reliability is the degree to which information is transferred accurately within the system. Reliability is a function of equipment failures (transmitters, feed lines, antennas, receivers, battery back-up power, etc.) and the availability of the frequency channel due to propagation characteristics (, frequency, terrain, atmospheric conditions, radio-frequency noise, etc.) For digital data systems, this will be measured by the percent of time the bit error rate exceeds the desired value. For analog or digital voice transmissions, this will be measured by the percent of time that audio signal quality meets an established threshold. If analog voice system is replaced with a digital voice system the resulting frequency response, harmonic distortion, signal-to-noise ratio, and reliability will be considered.
