
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Licensing and Use of EA-Based SMR Systems in the 809-824/851-869 MHz Band
####### ยง 90.693 Grandfathering provisions for incumbent licensees.
######## Spectrum blocks A through V.

(b)An incumbent licensee's service area shall be defined by its originally licensed 40 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour and its interference contour shall be defined as its originally-licensed 22 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour. The "originally-licensed" contour shall be calculated using the maximum ERP and the actual height of the antenna above average terrain (HAAT) along each radial. Incumbent licensees are permitted to add, remove or modify transmitter sites within their original 22 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour without prior notification to the Commission so long as their original 22 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour is not expanded. Incumbent licensee protection extends only to its 40 dB&#x3BC;V/m signal strength contour. Pursuant to the minor modification notification procedures set forth in 1.947(b), the incumbent licensee must notify the Commission within 30 days of any change in technical parameters for stations that are authorized under a waiver of 90.621(b)(4), or that are authorized under 90.621(b)(5).

(c) Special provisions for spectrum blocks F1 through V. Incumbent licensees that have received the consent of all affected parties or a certified frequency coordinator to utilize an 18 dB&#x3BC;V/m signal strength interference contour shall have their service area defined by their originally-licensed 36 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour and their interference contour shall be defined as their originally-licensed 18 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour. The "originally-licensed" contour shall be calculated using the maximum ERP and the actual HAAT along each radial. Incumbent licensees seeking to utilize an 18 dB&#x3BC;V/m signal strength interference contour shall first seek to obtain the consent of affected co-channel incumbents. When the consent of a co-channel licensee is withheld, an incumbent licensee may submit to any certified frequency coordinator an engineering study showing that interference will not occur, together with proof that the incumbent licensee has sought consent. Incumbent licensees are permitted to add, remove or modify transmitter sites within their original 18 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour without prior notification to the Commission so long as their original 18 dB&#x3BC;V/m field strength contour is not expanded. Incumbent licensee protection extends only to its 36 dB&#x3BC;V/m signal strength contour. Pursuant to the minor modification notification procedures set forth in 1.947(b), the incumbent licensee must notify the Commission within 30 days of any change in technical parameters for stations that are authorized under a waiver of 90.621(b)(4), or that are authorized under 90.621(b)(5).
