
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart S - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 806-824, 851-869, 896-901, and 935-940 MHz Bands
###### Policies Governing the Licensing and Use of EA-Based SMR Systems in the 809-824/851-869 MHz Band
####### ยง 90.699 Transition of the upper 200 channels in the 800 MHz band to EA licensing.
######## Operating costs.,e.g.,

(4)Operating costs are those costs that affect the delivery of services to the end user. If the EA licensee provides facilities that entail higher operating cost than the incumbent's previous system, and the cost increase is a direct result of the relocation, the EA licensee must compensate the incumbent for the difference. Costs associated with the relocation process can fall into several categories. First, the incumbent must be compensated for any increased recurring costs associated with the replacement facilitates (additional rental payments, increased utility fees). Second, increased maintenance costs must be taken into consideration when determining whether operating costs are comparable. For example, maintenance costs associated with analog systems may be higher than the costs of digital equipment because manufacturers are producing mostly digital equipment and analog replacement parts can be difficult to find. An EA licensee's obligation to pay increased operating costs will end five years after relocation has occurred.

(e)-(f) [Reserved]
