
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart T - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 220-222 MHz Band
###### Policies Governing the Licensing and Use of Phase II EA, Regional and Nationwide Systems
####### § 90.763 EA, Regional and nationwide system operations.
######## i.e.,

(A) A technical analysis demonstrating at least 10 dB protection to the predicted 38 dBu service contour of the co-channel Phase I licensee,demonstrating that the predicted 28 dBu interfering contour of the EA or Regional licensee's base station or fixed station does not overlap the predicted 38 dBu service contour of the co-channel Phase I licensee's base station or fixed station; or

(B) A written letter from the co-channel Phase I licensee consenting to a separation of less than 120 km, or to less than 10 dB protection to the predicted 38 dBu service contour of the licensee's base station or fixed station.

(ii) The Phase I licensee's predicted 38 dBu service contour referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is calculated using the F(50,50) field strength chart for Channels 7-13 in § 73.699 (Fig. 10) of this chapter, with a 9 dB correction factor for antenna height differential, and is based on the licensee's authorized effective radiated power and antenna height-above-average-terrain. The EA or Regional licensee's predicted 28 dBu interfering contour referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is calculated using the F(50,10) field strength chart for Channels 7-13 in § 73.699 (Fig. 10a) of this chapter, with a 9 dB correction factor for antenna height differential.

(2) The licensee complies with the requirements of § 90.733(i).

(3) The licensee limits the field strength of its base stations, or fixed stations operating on base station transmit frequencies, in accordance with the provisions of § 90.771.

(4) Upon request by a licensee or the Commission, an EA or regional licensee shall furnish the technical parameters, location and coordinates of the completion of the addition, removal, relocation or modification of any of its facilities within the EA or region. The EA or regional licensee must provide such information within ten (10) days of receiving written notification.

(c) In the event that the authorization for a co-channel Phase I base station, or fixed station transmitting on base station transmit frequencies, within an EA or Regional licensee's border is terminated or revoked, the EA or Regional licensee's channel obligations to such stations will cease upon deletion of the facility from the Commission's official licensing records, and the EA or Regional licensee then will be able to construct and operate without regard to the previous authorization.
