
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart T - Regulations Governing Licensing and Use of Frequencies in the 220-222 MHz Band
###### § 90.723 Selection and assignment of frequencies.
####### see

(i) A mobile station is authorized to transmit on any frequency assigned to its associated base station. Mobile units not associated with base stations (§ 90.720(a)) must operate on "mobile" channels.

(j) A licensee's fixed station is authorized to transmit on any of the licensee's assigned base station frequencies or mobile station frequencies.

(k) Except for nationwide assignments, the separation of co-channel Phase I base stations, or fixed stations transmitting on base station frequencies, shall be 120 kilometers. Except for Phase I licensees seeking license modification in accordance with the provisions of §§ 90.751 and 90.753, shorter separations between such stations will be considered by the Commission on a case-by-case basis upon submission of a technical analysis indicating that at least 10 dB protection will be provided to an existing Phase I station's predicted 38 dBu signal level contour. The existing Phase I station's predicted 38 dBu signal level contour shall be calculated using the F(50,50) field strength chart for Channels 7-13 in § 73.699 (Fig. 10) of this chapter, with a 9 dB correction factor for antenna height differential. The 10 dB protection to the existing Phase I station's predicted 38 dBu signal level contour shall be calculated using the F(50,10) field strength chart for Channels 7-13 in § 73.699 (Fig. 10a) of this chapter, with a 9 dB correction factor for antenna height differential.
