
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 90 - PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart W - Competitive Bidding Procedures for the 220 MHz Service
###### ยง 90.1019 Eligibility for partitioned licenses.
####### Eligibility.

(a)Parties seeking approval for partitioning and disaggregation shall request authorization for partial assignment of a license pursuant to ยง 1.948 of this chapter. The Commission will consider applications that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation.

(1) Phase I non-nationwide licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum after constructing their systems and placing their in operation or commencing service in accordance with the provisions in ยง 90.725(f) of this part.

(2) Phase I nationwide licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum after constructing at least 40 percent of the geographic areas designated in their applications in accordance with the provisions in ยง 90.725(a) of this part.

(3) Phase II licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum at any time following the grant of their licenses.

(4) Phase I and Phase II licensees authorized to operate on Channels 161 through 170 or Channels 181 through 185 are not eligible to partition their geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum.
