
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart Q - Competitive Bidding Proceedings
###### General Procedures
####### ยง 1.2110 Designated entities.
######## 2,de jure,de facto

() Rights of first refusal and put options shall not be calculated on a fully diluted basis for purposes of determiningcontrol; however, rights of first refusal and put options shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis if such ownership interests, in combination with other terms to an agreement, deprive an otherwise qualified applicant or licensee ofcontrol.

(B) Partnership and other ownership interests and any stock interest equity, or outstanding stock, or outstanding voting stock shall be attributed as specified.

(C) Stock interests held in trust shall be attributed to any person who holds or shares the power to vote such stock, to any person who has the sole power to sell such stock, and to any person who has the right to revoke the trust at will or to replace the trustee at will. If the trustee has a familial, personal, or extra-trust business relationship to the grantor or the beneficiary, the grantor or beneficiary, as appropriate, will be attributed with the stock interests held in trust.

(D) Non-voting stock shall be attributed as an interest in the issuing entity.

(E) Limited partnership interests shall be attributed to limited partners and shall be calculated according to both the percentage of equity paid in and the percentage of distribution of profits and losses.

(F) Officers and directors of the applicant shall be considered to have a controlling interest in the applicant. The officers and directors of an entity that controls a licensee or applicant shall be considered to have a controlling interest in the licensee or applicant. The personal net worth, including personal income of the officers and directors of an applicant, is not attributed to the applicant. To the extent that the officers and directors of an applicant are affiliates of other entities, the gross revenues of the other entities are attributed to the applicant.

(G) Ownership interests that are held indirectly by any party through one or more intervening corporations will be determined by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain and application of the relevant attribution benchmark to the resulting product, except that if the ownership percentage for an interest in any link in the chain exceeds 50 percent or represents actual control, it shall be treated as if it were a 100 percent interest.

(H) Any person who manages the operations of an applicant or licensee pursuant to a management agreement shall be considered to have a controlling interest in such applicant or licensee if such person, or its affiliate, has authority to make decisions or otherwise engage in practices or activities that determine, or significantly influence:
