
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Rules for the Personal Radio Services
###### ยง 95.343 Station operator responsibility and requirements.

Each Personal Radio Services station must have an operator whenever the station is transmitting. The operator of a Personal Radio Services station is responsible for proper operation of the station in compliance with all applicable rules in this part.

(a) Unless the station is operating under automatic control, the operator of a Personal Radio Services station must be located at a control point and monitoring communications while the station is transmitting.

(b) For Personal Radio Services stations operating under the authority of an individual license, the licensee is responsible for proper operation of the station in compliance with all applicable rules in this part, regardless of who is operating the station.

(c) For Personal Radio Services stations operating under the authority of an individual license, the licensee must maintain station records. If no individual license is required for a particular Personal Radio Service, the station operator must maintain the station records. Station records include copies of any FCC violation notices or other FCC letters received by the licensee or operator, any responses to such letters, each written permission received from the FCC, and other documents as the FCC may require be included.
