
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart D - CB Radio Service
###### ยง 95.987 CBRS additional requirements.
####### External controls.

(d)Only the external transmitter controls, connections or devices listed in this paragraph are allowed to be incorporated in a CBRS transmitter type. The FCC, however, may authorize additional controls, connections or devices after considering the functions to be performed by such additions.

(1) Primary power connection. External power supplies may be used.

(2) Microphone connection.

(3) Antenna connection.

(4) Headphone and speaker output connections and related selector switch.

(5) On-off switch for primary power to the transmitter. This switch may be combined with receiver controls such as the receiver on-off switch and volume control.

(6) Upper/lower sideband selector switch (for a transmitter that is capable of transmitting SSB emissions).

(7) Carrier level selector control (for a transmitter that is capable of transmitting SSB emissions). This control may be combined with the sideband selector switch.

(8) Channel selector switch.

(9) Transmit/receive selector switch.

(10) Meter(s) and selector switch(es) for monitoring transmitter performance.

(11) Pilot lamp(s), meter(s), light emitting diodes, liquid crystal devices or other types of visual display devices to indicate the presence of RF output power or that the transmitter control circuits are activated to transmit.
