
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart E - General Mobile Radio Service
###### ยง 95.1779 GMRS unwanted emissions limits.
####### Attenuation requirements.

(b)The power of unwanted emissions must be attenuated below the transmitter output power in Watts (P) by at least:

(1) 25 dB (decibels) on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 50% up to and including 100% of the authorized bandwidth.

(2) 35 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 100% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(3) 83 log (f&#xF7; 5) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fin kHz) of more than 5 kHz up to and including 10 kHz.

(4) 116 log (f&#xF7; 6.1) dB or 50 + 10 log (P) dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation, on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fin kHz), of more than 10 kHz up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(5) 25 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 50% up to and including 150% of the authorized bandwidth.

(6) 35 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 150% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(7) 43 + 10 log (P) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 250%.
