
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Medical Device Radio Communications Service
###### ยง 95.2533 Prohibited MedRadio uses.

MedRadio Service transmitters must not be operated for uses other than those set forth in ยง 95.2531.

(a) Voice communications are prohibited in the MedRadio Service.

(b) MedRadio programmer/control transmitters may not be used to relay information in the 401-406 MHz band to a receiver that is not included with a medical implant or medical body-worn device. Wireless retransmission of information intended to be transmitted by a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter or information received from a medical implant or medical body-worn transmitter shall be performed using other radio services that operate in spectrum outside of the 401-406 MHz band.

(c) MedRadio programmer/control transmitters and medical implant transmitters may not be used to relay information in the 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz, and 451-457 MHz bands to a receiver that is not a part of the same Medical Micropower Network (MMN). Wireless retransmission of information to a receiver that is not part of the same MMN must be performed using other radio services that operate in spectrum outside of the 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz, and 451-457 MHz bands. Notwithstanding the above restrictions, a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter of an MMN may communicate with a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter of another MMN to coordinate transmissions, so as to avoid interference between the two MMNs.

(d) Medical body-worn transmitters may relay only information in the 2360-2400 MHz band to a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter or another medical body-worn transmitter device that is part of the same Medical Body Area Network (MBAN). A MedRadio programmer/control transmitter must not be used to relay information in the 2360-2400 MHz band to other MedRadio programmer/control transmitters. Wireless retransmission of all other information from an MBAN transmitter to a receiver that is not a part of the same MBAN shall be performed using other radio services that operate in spectrum outside of the 2360-2400 MHz band. Notwithstanding the above restriction, a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter in the 2360-2400 MHz band may communicate with another MedRadio programmer/control transmitter in the 2360-2400 MHz band to coordinate transmissions so as to avoid interference between the two MBANs.

(e) Except as provided in ยง 95.2559(b), no MedRadio implant or body-worn transmitter shall transmit except in response to-

(1) A transmission from a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter; or

(2) A non-radio frequency actuation signal generated by a device external to the body with respect to which the MedRadio implant or body-worn transmitter is used.
