
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Medical Device Radio Communications Service
###### ยง 95.2509 MBAN registration and frequency coordination.
####### http://www.itu.int/en/publications/Pages/default.aspx,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html

(2) If the MBAN is within line-of-sight of an AMT receive facility, the MBAN frequency coordinator shall achieve a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement with the AMT frequency coordinator prior to the MBAN beginning operations in the band. Such coordination agreement shall provide protection to AMT receive stations consistent with International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Recommendation ITU-R M.1459, "Protection criteria for telemetry systems in the aeronautical mobile service and mitigation techniques to facilitate sharing with geostationary broadcasting-satellite and mobile-satellite services in the frequency bands 1 452-1 525 and 2 310-2 360 MHz," May 2000, as adjusted using generally accepted engineering practices and standards that are mutually agreeable to both coordinators to take into account the local conditions and operating characteristics of the applicable AMT and MBAN facilities, and shall specify when the device shall limit its transmissions to segments of the 2360-2390 MHz band or must cease operation in the band. This ITU document is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Federal Communications Commission must publish a document in theand the material must be available to the public. Copies of the recommendation may be obtained from ITU, Place des Nations, 1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, or online at. You may inspect a copy at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20554, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:. "Generally accepted engineering practices and standards" include, but are not limited to, engineering analyses and measurement data as well as limiting MBAN operations in the band by time or frequency.

(3) If an AMT operator plans to operate a receive site not previously analyzed by the MBAN coordinator to determine line-of-sight to an MBAN facility, the AMT operator shall consider using locations that are beyond the line-of-sight of a registered health care facility. If the AMT operator determines that non-line-of-sight locations are not practical for its purposes, the AMT coordinator shall notify the MBAN coordinator upon no less than 7 days notice that the registered health care facility must cease MBAN operations in the 2360-2390 MHz band, unless the parties can achieve a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
