
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Medical Device Radio Communications Service
###### ยง 95.2559 MedRadio channel access requirements.
####### Frequency monitoring in the 401-406 MHz band.

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all MedRadio programmer/control transmitters operating in the 401-406 MHz band must operate under the control of a monitoring system that incorporates a mechanism for monitoring the channel or channels that the MedRadio system devices intend to occupy. The monitoring system antenna shall be the antenna normally used by the programmer/control transmitter for a MedRadio communications session. Before the monitoring system of a programmer/control transmitter initiates a MedRadio communications session, the following access criteria must be met:

(1) The monitoring system bandwidth, measured at its 20 dB down points, must be equal to or greater than the MedRadio emission bandwidth of the intended transmission.

(2) Within 5 seconds prior to initiating a MedRadio communications session, circuitry associated with a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter must monitor the channel or channels the system devices intend to occupy for a minimum of 10 milliseconds per channel.

(3) The monitoring threshold power level, Pin dBm, is calculated using the following formula.

(i) B is the MedRadio emission bandwidth in Hertz of the MedRadio communications session transmitter having the widest emission; and,

(ii) G is the MedRadio programmer/control transmitter monitoring system antenna gain, in decibels, relative to the gain of an isotropic antenna (dBi).

(4) For the purposes of showing compliance with the above provisions, the above calculated threshold power level must be increased or decreased by an amount equal to the monitoring system antenna gain above or below the gain of an isotropic antenna, respectively.

(5) If no signal above the monitoring threshold power level is detected in a MedRadio channel, the MedRadio programmer/control transmitter may initiate on that channel a MedRadio communications session involving transmissions to and from a medical implant or medical body-worn device. The MedRadio communications session may continue as long as any silent period between consecutive data transmission bursts does not exceed 5 seconds. If no channel meeting the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section is available, MedRadio transmitters that are capable of operating on multiple channels may transmit on the alternate channel accessible by the device with the lowest monitored ambient power level.

(6) When a channel is selected prior to a MedRadio communications session, it is permissible to select an alternate channel for use if communications are interrupted, provided that the alternate channel selected is the next best choice using the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The alternate channel may be accessed in the event a communications session is interrupted by interference. The following criteria must be met:

(i) Before transmitting on the alternate channel, the channel must be monitored for a period of at least 10 milliseconds.

(ii) The detected power level during this 10 millisecond or greater monitoring period must be no higher than 6 dB above the power level detected when the channel was chosen as the alternate channel.

(iii) In the event that this alternate channel provision is not used by the MedRadio system, or if the criteria in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this section are not met, a channel must be selected using the access criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(7) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, MedRadio transmitters that operate on a single channel and thus do not have the capability of operating on alternate channels may not transmit unless no signal on the single channel of operation exceeds the monitoring threshold power level.
