
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Medical Device Radio Communications Service
###### § 95.2573 MedRadio authorized bandwidths.

Each MedRadio transmitter type must be designed such that the MedRadio emission bandwidth (as defined in § 95.2503) does not exceed the applicable limits set forth in this section.

(a) For MedRadio transmitters operating in the 402-405 MHz band, the maximum MedRadio emission bandwidth is 300 kHz. Such transmitters must not use more than 300 kHz of bandwidth (total) during a MedRadio communications session. This provision does not preclude full duplex or half duplex communications provided that the total bandwidth of all of the channels employed in a MedRadio communications session does not exceed 300 kHz.

(b) For MedRadio transmitters operating in the 401-401.85 MHz band or the 405-406 MHz band, the maximum MedRadio emission bandwidth is 100 kHz. Such transmitters must not use more than 100 kHz of bandwidth (total) during a MedRadio communications session. This provision does not preclude full duplex or half duplex communications provided that the total bandwidth of all of the channels employed in a MedRadio communications session does not exceed 100 kHz.

(c) For MedRadio transmitters operating in the 401.85-402 MHz band, the maximum MedRadio emission bandwidth is 150 kHz. Such transmitters must not use more than 150 kHz of bandwidth (total) during a MedRadio communications session. This provision does not preclude full duplex or half duplex communications, provided that the total bandwidth of all of the channels employed in a MedRadio communications session does not exceed 150 kHz.

(d) For MedRadio transmitters operating in the 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz or 451-457 MHz bands, the maximum MedRadio emission bandwidth is 6 MHz.

(e) For MedRadio transmitters operating in the 2360-2400 MHz band, the maximum MedRadio emission bandwidth is 5 MHz.

(f) Lesser emission bandwidths may be employed, provided that the unwanted emissions are attenuated as provided in § 95.2579. See also § 95.2567 regarding maximum radiated power limits, § 95.2565 on frequency accuracy, § 95.2569 on field strength measurements, and § 95.2585 on RF exposure.
