
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 95 - PERSONAL RADIO SERVICES
##### Subpart I - Medical Device Radio Communications Service
###### ยง 95.2569 MedRadio field strength measurements.

Compliance with MedRadio equivalent isotropic radiated power (M-EIRP) limits can be determined by measuring the radiated field strength from the transmitter type, in accordance with the rules in this section.

(a) Radiated field strength values corresponding to the M-EIRP limits in ยง 95.2567 are given in the table in this paragraph, for an open area test site, and for a test site equivalent to free space, such as a fully anechoic test chamber. Field strength is measured at a distance of 3 meters from the equipment under test.

(b) Compliance with the maximum transmitter power requirements in ยง 95.2567 is based on measurements using a peak detector function and measured over an interval of time when transmission is continuous and at its maximum power level. In lieu of using a peak detector function, measurement procedures that have been found to be acceptable to the FCC in accordance with ยง 2.947 of this chapter may be used to demonstrate compliance.

(c) For a MedRadio transmitter intended to be implanted in a human body, radiated emissions and M-EIRP measurements for transmissions by stations authorized under this section may be made in accordance with an FCC-approved human body simulator and test technique. Guidance regarding dielectric parameters for the tissue-equivalent material can be found in the Office of Engineering and Technology (OET) Laboratory Division Knowledge Database (KDB).
