
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart Q - Competitive Bidding Proceedings
###### General Procedures
####### ยง 1.2110 Designated entities.
######## Order on Reconsideration of the Second Report and Order,

(ii) If any licensee fails to make the Required Installment Payment on or before the last day of the first additional quarter set forth in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, the licensee may submit its Required Installment Payment on or before the last day of the next quarter (the "second additional quarter"), except that no such additional time will be provided for the July 31, 1998 suspension interest and installment payments from C or F block licensees that are not made within 90 days of the payment resumption date for those licensees, as explained in Amendment of the Commission's Rules Regarding Installment Payment Financing for Personal Communications Services (PCS) Licensees,WT Docket No. 97-82, 13 FCC Rcd 8345 (1998). Any licensee making the Required Installment Payment during the second additional quarter (the "second additional quarter grace period") will be assessed a late payment fee equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount of the past due Required Installment Payment. Licensees shall not be required to submit any form of request in order to take advantage of the first and second additional quarter grace periods.

(iii) All licensees that avail themselves of these grace periods must pay the associated late payment fee(s) and the Required Installment Payment prior to the conclusion of the applicable additional quarter grace period(s). Payments made at the close of any grace period(s) will first be applied to satisfy any lender advances as required under each licensee's "Note and Security Agreement," with the remainder of such payments applied in the following order: late payment fees, interest charges, installment payments for the most back-due quarterly installment payment.

(iv) If an eligible entity obligated to make installment payments fails to pay the total Required Installment Payment, interest and any late payment fees associated with the Required Installment Payment within two quarters (6 months) of the Required Installment Payment due date, it shall be in default, its license shall automatically cancel, and it will be subject to debt collection procedures. A licensee in the PCS C or F blocks shall be in default, its license shall automatically cancel, and it will be subject to debt collection procedures, if the payment due on the payment resumption date, referenced in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section, is more than ninety (90) days delinquent.

(h) The Commission may establish different upfront payment requirements for categories of designated entities in competitive bidding rules of particular auctionable services.

(i) The Commission may offer designated entities a combination of the available preferences or additional preferences.
