
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart Q - Competitive Bidding Proceedings
###### General Procedures
####### ยง 1.2110 Designated entities.
######## Annual reports.

(n)(1) Each designated entity licensee must file with the Commission an annual report no later than September 30 of each year for each license it holds that was acquired using designated entity benefits and that, as of August 31 of the year in which the report is due (the "cut-off date"), remains subject to designated entity unjust enrichment requirements (a "designated entity license"). The annual report must provide the information described in paragraph (n)(2) of this section for the year ending on the cut-off date (the "reporting year"). If, during the reporting year, a designated entity has assigned or transferred a designated entity license to another designated entity, the designated entity that holds the designated entity license on September 30 of the year in which the application for the transaction is filed is responsible for filing the annual report.

(2) The annual report shall include, at a minimum, a list and summaries of all agreements and arrangements (including proposed agreements and arrangements) that relate to eligibility for designated entity benefits. In addition to a summary of each agreement or arrangement, this list must include the parties (including affiliates, controlling interests, and affiliates of controlling interests) to each agreement or arrangement, as well as the dates on which the parties entered into each agreement or arrangement.

(3) A designated entity need not list and summarize on its annual report the agreements and arrangements otherwise required to be included under paragraphs (n)(1) and (n)(2) of this section if it has already filed that information with the Commission, and the information on file remains current. In such a situation, the designated entity must instead include in its annual report both the ULS file number of the report or application containing the current information and the date on which that information was filed.
