
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart Q - Competitive Bidding Proceedings
###### General Procedures
####### ยง 1.2114 Reporting of eligibility event.
######## Streamlined approval procedures.

(d)(1) The eligibility event application will be placed on public notice once the application is sufficiently complete and accepted for filing (see ยง 1.933).

(2) Petitions to deny filed in accordance with section 309(d) of the Communications Act must comply with the provisions of ยง 1.939, except that such petitions must be filed no later than 14 days following the date of the Public Notice listing the application as accepted for filing.

(3) No later than 21 days following the date of the Public Notice listing an application as accepted for filing, the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (Bureau) will grant the application, deny the application, or remove the application from streamlined processing for further review.

(4) Grant of the application will be reflected in a Public Notice (see ยง 1.933(a)(2)) promptly issued after the grant.

(5) If the Bureau determines to remove an application from streamlined processing, it will issue a Public Notice indicating that the application has been removed from streamlined processing. Within 90 days of that Public Notice, the Bureau will either take action upon the application or provide public notice that an additional 90-day period for review is needed.
