
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Filing Requirements
####### § 101.31 Temporary and conditional authorizations.
######## Operation at temporary locations.

(a)(1) Authorizations may be issued upon proper application for rendition of temporary service to subscribers under the following conditions:

(i) When a fixed station, authorized to operate at temporary locations, is to remain at a single location for more than 6 months, an application for a station authorization designating that single location as the permanent location shall be filed at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the 6 month period;

(ii) The station shall be used only for rendition of communication service at a remote point where the provision of wire facilities is not practicable within the required time frame; and

(iii) The antenna structure height employed at any location shall not exceed the criteria set forth in § 17.7 of this chapter unless, in each instance, authorization for use of a specific maximum antenna structure height for each location has been obtained from the Commission prior to erection of the antenna. See § 101.125.

(2) Applications for authorizations to operate stations at temporary locations under the provisions of this section shall be made upon FCC Form 601. Blanket applications may be submitted for the required number of transmitters. An application for authority to operate a fixed station at temporary locations must specify the precise geographic area within which the operation will be confined. The area specified must be defined as a radius of operation about a specific coordinate (latitude/longitude), or as a county, or as a State. Exception to this specific requirement may be made for exceptionally large areas, such as the continental United States. Sufficient data must be submitted to show the need for the proposed area of operation.

(3) Operations in the 17.8-19.7 GHz band for any services and in the 17.7-17.8 GHz band for MVPD operations are prohibited in the areas defined in § 1.924 of this chapter. Operations proposed in the areas defined in § 1.924 of this chapter may not commence without prior specific notification to, and authorization from, the Commission.
