
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Filing Requirements
####### ยง 101.31 Temporary and conditional authorizations.
######## See

(vii) With respect to the 21.8-22.1 GHz and 23.0-23.3 GHz band, the filed application(s) does not propose to operate on a frequency pair centered on other than 21.825/23.025 GHz, 21.875/23.075 GHz, 21.925/23.125 GHz, 21.975/23.175 GHz, 22.025/23.225 GHz or 22.075/23.275 GHz and does not propose to operate with an E.I.R.P. greater than 55 dBm. The center frequencies are shifted from the center frequencies listed above for certain bandwidths as follows: add 0.005 GHz for 20 MHz bandwidth channels, add 0.010 GHz for 30 megahertz bandwidth channels, and subtract 0.005 GHz for 40 MHz bandwidth channels.specific channel listings in ยง 101.147(s).

(viii) The filed application(s) is consistent with the proposal that was coordinated pursuant to ยง 101.103.

(2) Conditional authority ceases immediately if the application(s) is returned by the Commission because it is not acceptable for filing.

(3) Conditional authorization does not prejudice any action the Commission may take on the subject application(s). Conditional authority is accepted with the express understanding that such authority may be modified or cancelled by the Commission at any time without hearing if, in the Commission's discretion, the need for such action arises. An applicant operating pursuant to this conditional authority assumes all risks associated with such operation, the termination or modification of the conditional authority, or the subsequent dismissal or denial of its applications(s).
