
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.103 Frequency coordination procedures.
####### Licensees operating in Basic Trading Areas authorized in the Local Multipoint Distribution Service.

(g)(1) When the transmitting facilities in a Basic Trading Area (BTA) are to be operated in the bands 29,100-29,250 MHz and 31,000-31,300 MHz and the facilities are located within 20 kilometers of the boundaries of a BTA, each licensee must complete the frequency coordination process of paragraph (d)(2) of this section with respect to neighboring BTA licensees that may be affected by its operations prior to initiating service. In addition, all licensed transmitting facilities operating in the bands 31,000-31,075 MHz and 31,225-31,300 MHz and located within 20 kilometers of neighboring facilities must complete the frequency coordination process of paragraph (d)(2) of this section with respect to such authorized operations before initiating service.

(2) Response to notification should be made as quickly as possible, even if no technical problems are anticipated. Any response to notification indicating potential interference must specify the technical details and must be provided to the applicant, either electronically or in writing, within the 30-day notification period. Every reasonable effort should be made by all licensees to eliminate all problems and conflicts. If no response to notification is received within 30 days, the licensee will be deemed to have made reasonable efforts to coordinate and commence operation without a response. The beginning of the 30-day period is determined pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section.
