
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.103 Frequency coordination procedures.

(a) Assignment of frequencies will be made only in such a manner as to facilitate the rendition of communication service on an interference-free basis in each service area. Unless otherwise indicated, each frequency available for use by stations in these services will be assigned exclusively to a single applicant in any service area. All applicants for, and licensees of, stations in these services must cooperate in the selection and use of the frequencies assigned in order to minimize interference and thereby obtain the most effective use of the authorized facilities. In the event harmful interference occurs or appears likely to occur between two or more radio systems and such interference cannot be resolved between the licensees thereof, the Commission may specify a time sharing arrangement for the stations involved or may, after notice and opportunity for hearing, require the licensees to make such changes in operating techniques or equipment as it may deem necessary to avoid such interference.

(b)(1) Operations in the bands 31,000-31,075 MHz and 31,225-31,300 MHz licensed prior to March 11, 1997, were licensed on an unprotected basis and are subject to harmful interference from similarly licensed operations in that band.

(i) Operations licensed in the Local Mulitpoint Distribution Service and those operations licensed prior to March 11, 1997, except in the Local Television Transmission Service, operating in these bands are equally protected against harmful interference from each other.

(ii) In the case of operations licensed prior to March 11, 1997, except in the Local Television Transmission Service, that are licensed on a point-to-radius basis, LMDS licensees shall be subject to the protection requirement established in this section in the case of existing links operated by such licensees, and in the case of links added by such licensees in the future in accordance with the terms of their point-to-radius licenses.

(iii) An LMDS licensee may not initiate operations within the point-to-radius area licensed to an operator (other than an operator in the Local Television Transmission Service) prior to March 11, 1997, even if such operator has not initiated operations to the fullest extent of the license. An LMDS licensee, however, may initiate operations at the border of such operator's license area without prior coordination if the LMDS licensee's operations would not cause harmful interference to the other operator's existing operations.

(iv) An operator (other than an operator in the Local Television Transmission Service) licensed on a point-to-radius basis prior to March 11, 1997, may add additional stations within its license area. Such operator shall coordinate with any affected LMDS licensee if its new operations might cause harmful interference to the existing operations of such LMDS licensee.

(v) Operations licensed prior to March 11, 1997, on a point-to-point basis may not be extended or otherwise modified through the addition of point-to-point links. Such operations shall be limited to the use of frequency pairs licensed as of March 11, 1997. Operations licensed in the Local Television Transmission Service as of March 11, 1997, may continue to operate, but such operators may not expand existing operations nor initiate new operations.

(2) Operations in the 31,075-31,225 MHz band licensed prior to March 11, 1997, shall receive no protection against harmful interference from authorized operations in the Local Multipoint Distribution Service in that band.

(3) Non-LMDS operations in the entire 31,000-31,300 MHz band licensed after March 11, 1997, based on applications refiled no later than June 26, 1998 are unprotected with respect to each other and subject to harmful interference from each other.

(i) Such operations and any operations licensed prior to March 11, 1997, in the band are unprotected with respect to each other and subject to harmful interference from each other.

(ii) Such operations are licensed on a secondary basis to LMDS operations licensed in the band, may not cause interference to LMDS operations, and are not protected from interference from LMDS operations.

(iii) Such operations licensed on a point-to-point basis may not be extended or otherwise modified through the addition of point-to-point links. Such operations licensed on a point-to-radius basis may add additional stations within the licensed area.

(c) Frequency diversity transmission will not be authorized in these services in the absence of a factual showing that the required communications cannot practically be achieved by other means. Where frequency diversity is deemed to be justified on a protection channel basis, it will be limited to one protection channel for the bands 3,700-4,200, 5925-6425, and 6525-6875 MHz, and a ratio of one protection channel for three working channels for the bands 10,550-10,680 and 10,700-11,700 MHz. In the bands 3,700-4,200, 5,925-6,425, and 6525-6875 MHz, no frequency diversity protection channel will be authorized unless there is a minimum of three working channels, except that where a substantial showing is made that a total of three working channels will be required within three years, a protection channel may be authorized simultaneously with the first working channel. A protection channel authorized under such exception will be subject to termination if applications for the third working channel are not filed within three years of the grant date of the applications for the first working channel. Where equipment employing digital modulation techniques with cross-polarized operation on the same frequency is used, the protection channel authorized under the above conditions may be considered to consist of both polarizations of the protection frequency where such is shown to be necessary.
