
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.103 Frequency coordination procedures.
####### Coordination and information sharing between MVDDS and NGSO FSS licensees in the 12.2 GHz to 12.7 GHz band.

(f)(1)Prior to the construction or addition of an MVDDS transmitting antenna in this frequency band, the MVDDS licensee shall provide notice of intent to construct the proposed antenna site to NGSO FSS licensees operating in the 12.2-12.7 GHz frequency band and maintain an Internet web site of all existing transmitting sites and transmitting antennas that are scheduled for operation within one year including the "in service" dates. In addition to the location of a proposed new transmitting antenna, MVDDS licensees shall provide to the NGSO FSS licensees a technical description of the operating characteristics of the proposed transmission facility. At a minimum, the following information must be included in each notification:

(i) Name of MVDDS licensee;

(ii) Geographic location (including NAD83 coordinates) of proposed MVDDS transmitting antenna;

(iii) Maximum EIRP per 24 MHz;

(iv) Height above average terrain of the transmitting antenna;

(v) Type of antenna to be utilized;

(vi) Main beam azimuth and altitude orientation for the proposed transmitting antenna;

(vii) Theoretically modeled antenna radiation pattern;

(viii) Type(s) of emissions, and;

(ix) Description of the proposed service area.

(2) If the proposed MVDDS antenna site does not meet the minimum spacing requirements on the date of original notification or on subsequent annual anniversary dates of non-operation as set forth in ยง 101.129, then the MVDDS licensee shall not construct the proposed transmission facility unless all NGSO FSS licensees having active subscribers within the minimum separation distance agree to a shorter spacing. Nothing in this section shall preclude MVDDS and NGSO FSS licensees from agreeing to accept the siting of new MVDDS transmitting antennas that do no meet the minimum distance set forth in ยง 101.129. Incumbent point-to-point licensees' (those not licensed as MVDDS) facilities are to be operated in the band 12,200-12,700 MHz following the procedures, technical standards, and requirements of ยง 101.105 in order to protect stations providing Direct Broadcast Satellite Service.
