
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.105 Interference protection criteria.
####### i.e.,

(5) Multiple address frequencies in the 956.25-956.45 MHz bands may be assigned for use by mobile master stations on a primary basis. Multiple address frequencies in the 941.0-941.5 MHz bands that are licensed on a site-by-site basis and the 952 MHz bands may be assigned for use by primary mobile master stations on a case-by-case basis if the 956.25-956.45 MHz frequencies are unavailable. Multiple address mobile (master and remote) operation is permitted on frequencies licensed by geographic area subject to the interference protection criteria set forth in ยง 101.1333,adjacent channel site-based licensees and co-channel operations in adjacent EAs. Mobile operation in the 959.85-960 MHz band is not permitted.

(6) Each application for new or modified nodal station on channels numbered 4A, 4B, 7, 9, and 19/20 in the 10.6 GHz band must demonstrate that all existing co-channel stations are at least 56 kilometers from the proposed nodal station site. Applicants for these channels must certify that all licensees and applicants for stations on the adjacent channels within 56 kilometers of the proposed nodal station have been notified of the proposed station and do not object. Alternatively, or if one of the affected adjacent channel interests does object, the applicant may show that all affected adjacent channel parties are provided a C/I protection ratio of 0 dB. An applicant proposing to operate at an AAT greater than 91 meters must reduce its EIRP in accordance with the following table; however, in no case may EIRP exceed 70 dBm on the 10.6 GHz channels:

(7) Each application for new or modified nodal station on channels numbered 21, 22, 23, and 24 in the 10.6 GHz band must include an analysis of the potential for harmful interference to all other licensed and previously applied for co-channel and adjacent channel stations located within 80 kilometers of the location of the proposed station. The criteria contained in ยง 101.103(d)(2) must be used in this analysis. Applicants must certify that copies of this analysis have been served on all parties which might reasonably be expected to receive interference above the levels set out in ยง 101.103(d)(2) within 5 days of the date the subject application is filed with the Commission.

(8) If the potential interference will exceed the prescribed limits, a statement shall be submitted with the application for new or modified stations to the effect that all parties have agreed to accept the higher level of interference.

(d) Effective August 1, 1985, when a fixed station that conforms to the technical standards of this subpart (or, in the case of the 12,200-12,700 MHz band, for an incumbent non-MVDDS station or a direct broadcast satellite station) receives or will receive interference in excess of the levels specified in this section as a result of an existing licensee's use of non-conforming equipment authorized between July 20, 1961 and July 1, 1976, and the interference would not result if the interfering station's equipment complied with the current technical standards, the licensee of the non-conforming station must take whatever steps are necessary to correct the situation up to the point of installing equipment which fully conforms to the technical standards of this subpart. In such cases, if the engineering analysis demonstrates that:

(1) The conforming station would receive interference from a non-conforming station in excess of the levels specified in this section; and

(2) The interference would be eliminated if the non-conforming equipment were replaced with equipment which complies with the standards of this subpart, the licensee (or prospective licensee) of the station which would receive interference must provide written notice of the potential interference to both the non-conforming licensee and the Commission's office in Gettysburg, PA. The non-conforming licensee must make all required equipment changes within 180 days from the date of official Commission notice informing the licensee that it must upgrade its equipment, unless an alternative solution has been agreed to by all parties involved in the interference situation. If a non-conforming licensee fails to make all required changes within the specified period of time, the Commission may require the licensee to suspend operation until the changes are completed.
