
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.105 Interference protection criteria.
####### Adjacent Channel Interference.

(ii)Applicable to all bands; the existing or previously authorized system must be afforded a carrier to interfering signal protection ratio of at least 56 dB, except in the 71,000-76,000 MHz and 81,000-86,000 MHz bands where the criteria in paragraph (a)(5) of this section applies, and in the 92,000-94,000 MHz and 94,100-95,000 MHz bands, where the criteria in paragraph (a)(6) of this section applies.

(3) Applicants for frequencies listed in ยง 101.147(b)(1) through (4) must make the following showings that protection criteria have been met over the entire service area of existing systems. Such showings may be made by the applicant or may be satisfied by a statement from a frequency coordinator.

(i) For site-based multiple address stations in the 928-929/952-960 MHz and the 932-932.5/941-941.5 MHz bands, a statement that the proposed system complies with the following co-channel separations from all existing stations and pending applications:

(ii) In cases where the geographic separation standard in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section is not followed, an engineering analysis must be submitted to show the coordination of the proposed assignment with existing systems located closer than those standards. The engineering analyses will include:

(A) Specification of the interference criteria and system parameters used in the interference study;

(B) Nominal service areas of each system included in the interference analysis;

(C) Modified service areas resulting from the proposed system. The propagation models used to establish the service boundary limits must be specified and any special terrain features considered in computing the interference impact should be described; and

(D) A statement that all parties affected have agreed to the engineering analysis and will accept the calculated levels of interference.

(iii) MAS EA licensees shall provide protection in accordance with ยง 101.1333.

(4) Multiple address systems operating on subfrequencies in accordance with ยง 101.147 that propose to operate master stations at unspecified locations must define the operating area by a radius about a geographical coordinate and describe how interference to co-channel users will be controlled.
