
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.147 Frequency assignments.
####### Special requirements for operations in the band 29.1-29.25 GHz.

(y)(1)(i) LMDS receive stations operating on frequencies in the 29.1-29.25 GHz band within a radius of 75 nautical miles of the geographic coordinates provided by a non-GSO MSS licensee pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3)(i) of this section (the "feeder link earth station complex protection zone") shall accept any interference caused to them by such earth station complexes and shall not claim protection from such earth station complexes.

(ii) LMDS licensees operating on frequencies in the 29.1-29.25 GHz band outside a feeder link earth station complex protection zone shall cooperate fully and make reasonable efforts to resolve technical problems with the non-GSO MSS licensee to the extent that transmissions from the non-GSO MSS operator's feeder link earth station complex interfere with an LMDS receive station.

(2) No more than 15 days after the release of a public notice announcing the commencement of LMDS auctions, feeder link earth station complexes to be licensed pursuant to Section 25.257 shall be specified by a set of geographic coordinates in accordance with the following requirements: no feeder link earth station complex may be located in the top eight (8) metropolitan statistical areas ("MSAs"), ranked by population, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget as of June 1993, using estimated populations as of December 1992; two (2) complexes may be located in MSAs 9 through 25, one of which must be Phoenix, AZ (for a complex at Chandler, AZ); two (2) complexes may be located in MSAs 26 to 50; three (3) complexes may be located in MSAs 51 to 100, one of which must be Honolulu, Hawaii (for a complex at Waimea); and the three (3) remaining complexes must be located at least 75 nautical miles from the borders of the 100 largest MSAs or in any MSA not included in the 100 largest MSAs. Any location allotted for one range of MSAs may be taken from an MSA below that range.

(3)(i) Any non-GSO MSS licensee may at any time specify sets of geographic coordinates for feeder link earth station complexes with each earth station contained therein to be located at least 75 nautical miles from the borders of the 100 largest MSAs.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, non-GSO MSS feeder link earth station complexes shall be entitled to accommodation only if the affected non-GSO MSS licensee preapplies to the Commission for a feeder link earth station complex or certifies to the Commission within sixty days of receiving a copy of an LMDS application that it intends to file an application for a feeder link earth station complex within six months of the date of receipt of the LMDS application.

(iii) If said non-GSO MSS licensee application is filed later than six months after certification to the Commission, the LMDS and non-GSO MSS entities shall still cooperate fully and make reasonable efforts to resolve technical problems, but the LMDS licensee shall not be obligated to re-engineer its proposal or make changes to its system.

(4) LMDS licensees or applicants proposing to operate hub stations on frequencies in the 29.1-29.25 GHz band at locations outside of the 100 largest MSAs or within a distance of 150 nautical miles from a set of geographic coordinates specified under paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3)(i) of this section shall serve copies of their applications on all non-GSO MSS applicants, permitees or licensees meeting the criteria specified in ยง 25.257(a). Non-GSO MSS licensees or applicants shall serve copies of their feeder link earth station applications, after the LMDS auction, on any LMDS applicant or licensee within a distance of 150 nautical miles from the geographic coordinates that it specified under paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3)(i) of this section. Any necessary coordination shall commence upon notification by the party receiving an application to the party who filed the application. The results of any such coordination shall be reported to the Commission within sixty days. The non-GSO MSS earth station licensee shall also provide all such LMDS licensees with a copy of its channel plan.
