
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### § 101.147 Frequency assignments.
####### 17,700 to 19,700 and 24,250 to 25,250 MHz:

(r)Operation of stations using frequencies in these bands is permitted to the extent specified in this paragraph. Until November 19, 2012, stations operating in the band 18.3-18.58 GHz that were licensed or had applications pending before the Commission as of November 19, 2002 shall operate on a shared co-primary basis with other services under parts 21, 25, 74, and 78 of this chapter. Until October 31, 2011, operations in the band 19.26-19.3 GHz and low power systems operating pursuant to paragraph (r)(10) of this section shall operate on a co-primary basis. Until June 8, 2010, stations operating in the band 18.58-18.8 GHz that were licensed or had applications pending before the Commission as of June 8, 2000 may continue those operations on a shared co-primary basis with other services under parts 21, 25, 74, and 78 of this chapter. Until June 8, 2010, stations operating in the band 18.8-19.3 GHz that were licensed or had applications pending before the Commission as of September 18, 1998 may continue those operations on a shared co-primary basis with other services under parts 21, 25, 74, and 78 of this chapter. After November 19, 2012, stations operating in the band 18.3-18.58 GHz are not entitled to protection from fixed-satellite service operations and must not cause unacceptable interference to fixed-satellite service station operations. After June 8, 2010, operations in the 18.58-19.30 GHz band are not entitled to protection from fixed-satellite service operations and must not cause unacceptable interference to fixed-satellite service station operations. After November 19, 2002, no applications for new stations for 47 CFR part 101 licenses will be accepted in the 18.3-18.58 GHz band. After June 8, 2000, no applications for new stations for 47 CFR part 101 licenses will be accepted in the 18.58-19.3 GHz band. Licensees, except 24 GHz band licensees, may use either a two-way link or one frequency of a frequency pair for a one-way link and must coordinate proposed operations pursuant to the procedures required in § 101.103 of this subpart. (Note, however, that stations authorized as of September 9, 1983, to use frequencies in the band 17.7-19.7 GHz may, upon proper application, continue to be authorized for such operations, consistent with the above conditions related to the 18.58-19.3 GHz band.) Applicants for one-way spectrum from 17.7-18.58 GHz for multichannel video programming distribution are governed by paragraph (r)(6) of this section. Licensees are also allowed to use one-way (unpaired) channels in the 17.7-17.74 GHz sub-band to pair with other channels in the FS portions of the 18 GHz band where, for example, the return pair is already in use and therefore blocked or in TDD systems. Stations used for MVPD operations in the 17.7-17.8 GHz band must coordinate with the Federal Government before operating in the zones specified in § 1.924(e) of this chapter.

(1) 1.25 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(2) 2 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channel:

(3) 2.5 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(4) 5 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(5) 5 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(6) MVPD use: Multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs) can use any size channels for one-way operations in the 17.7-18.58 GHz band for any permissible communications specified for this band in § 101.603 provided that they have coordinated the appropriate emission designators and power, but must request contiguous spectrum (minus spectrum that is already licensed or prior coordinated in the area and thus blocked). MVPD systems must meet the efficiency requirements of § 101.141. Spectrum at 18.3-18.58 GHz is only available for grandfathered stations. See § 101.85.

(7) 10 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(8) 20 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(9) 30 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(10) 40 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(11) 50 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(12) 80 Megahertz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(13) The following frequencies on channels 35-39 are available for point-to-multipoint systems and are available by geographic area licensing in the 24 GHz Service to be used as the licensee desires. The 24 GHz spectrum can be aggregated or disaggregated and does not have to be used in the transmit/receive manner shown except to comply with international agreements along the U.S. borders. Channels 35 through 39 are licensed in the 24 GHz Service by Economic Areas for any digital fixed service. Channels may be used at either nodal or subscriber station locations for transmit or receive but must be coordinated with adjacent channel and adjacent area users in accordance with the provisions of § 101.509 of this subpart. Stations also must comply with international coordination agreements.
