
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.147 Frequency assignments.
####### 12,700 to 13,150 MHz.

(2)50 MHz authorized bandwidth.

(i) 5 MHz channels:

(ii) 8.33 MHz bandwidth channels:

(iii) 12.5 MHz bandwidth channels:

(iv) 25 MHz bandwidth channels:

(v) 50 MHz bandwidth channels:

(q) Special provisions for incumbent low power, limited coverage systems in the band segments 12.2-12.7 GHz.

(1) As of May 23, 2002, the Commission no longer accepts applications for new stations in this service and incumbent stations may remain in service provided they do not cause harmful interference to any other primary services licensed in this band as described in paragraph (p) of this section. However, incumbent licensees and previously filed applicants may file applications for minor modifications and amendments (as defined in ยง 1.929 of this chapter) thereto, renewals, transfer of control, or assignment of license.

(2) Prior to December 8, 2000, notwithstanding any contrary provisions in this part, the frequency pairs 12.220/12.460 GHz, 12.260/12.500 GHz, 12.300/12.540 GHz and 12.340/12.580 GHz, were authorized for low power, limited coverage systems subject to the following provisions:

(i) Maximum equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) shall be 55 dBm;

(ii) The rated transmitter output power shall not exceed 0.5 watts;

(iii) Frequency tolerance shall be maintained to within 0.01 percent of the assigned frequency;

(iv) Maximum beamwidth shall not exceed 4 degrees. However, the sidelobe suppression criteria contained in ยง 101.115 shall not apply, except that a minimum front-to-back ratio of 38 dB shall apply;

(v) Upon showing of need, a maximum bandwidth of 12 MHz may be authorized per frequency assigned;

(vi) Radio systems authorized under the provisions of this section shall have no more than three hops in tandem, except upon showing of need, but in any event the maximum tandem length shall not exceed 40 km (25 miles);

(vii) Interfering signals at the receiver antenna terminals of stations authorized under this section shall not exceed -90 dBm and -70 dBm respectively, for co-channel and adjacent channel interfering signals, and

(viii) Stations authorized under the provisions of this section shall provide the protection from interference specified in ยง 101.105 to stations operating in accordance with the provisions of this part.
