
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.147 Frequency assignments.
####### 71,000-76,000 MHz; 81,000-86,000 MHz; 92,000-94,000 MHz; 94,100-95,000 MHz.,See

(z)(1) Those applicants who are approved in accordance with FCC Form 601 will each be granted a single, non-exclusive nationwide license. Site-by-site registration is on a first-come, first-served basis. Registration will be in the Universal Licensing System until the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau announces by public notice, the implementation of a third-party database.47 CFR 101.1523. Links may not operate until NTIA approval is received. Licensees may use these bands for any point-to-point non-broadcast service.

(2) Prior links shall be protected using the interference protection criteria set forth in section 101.105. For transmitters employing digital modulation techniques and operating in the 71,000-76,000 MHz or 81,000-86,000 MHz bands, the licensee must construct a system that meets a minimum bit rate of 0.125 bits per second per Hertz of bandwidth. For transmitters that operate in the 92,000-94,000 MHz or 94,100-95,000 MHz bands, licensees must construct a system that meets a minimum bit rate of 1.0 bit per second per Hertz of bandwidth. If it is determined that a licensee has not met these loading requirements, then the database will be modified to limit coordination rights to the spectrum that is loaded and the licensee will lose protection rights on spectrum that has not been loaded.
