
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 101.147 Frequency assignments.
####### Special provision for low power systems in the 17,700-19,700 MHz band:

(14)Notwithstanding other provisions in 47 CFR part 101 and except for specified areas around Washington, DC, and Denver, Colorado, licensees of point-to-multipoint channel pairs 25-29 identified in paragraph (r)(13) of this section may continue to operate in accordance with the requirements of ยง 101.85 and may operate multiple low power transmitting devices within a defined service area. Operations are prohibited within 55 km when used outdoor and within 20 km when used indoor of the coordinates 38 deg.48&#x2032; N/76 deg.52&#x2032; W (Washington, DC area) and 39 deg.43&#x2032; N/104 deg.46&#x2032; W (Denver, Colorado area). The service area will be a 28 kilometer omni directional radius originating from specified center reference coordinates. The specified center coordinates must be no closer than 56 kilometers from any co-channel nodal station or the specified center coordinates of another co-channel system. Applicants/licensees do not need to specify the location of each individual transmitting device operating within their defined service areas. Such operations are subject to the following requirements on the low power transmitting devices:

(i) Power must not exceed one watt EIRP and 100 milliwatts transmitter output power;

(ii) A frequency tolerance of 0.001% must be maintained; and

(iii) The mean power of emissions shall be attenuated in accordance with the following schedule:

(A) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the center frequency of the assigned channel by more than 50 percent of the channel bandwidth and is within the bands 18,820-18,870 MHz or 19,160-19,210 MHz:

(B) In any 4 kHz band the center frequency of which is outside the bands 18.820-18.870 GHz: At least 43 + 10 log P (mean output power in watts) decibels.

(iv) Low power stations authorized in the band 18.8-19.3 GHz after June 8, 2000, are restricted to indoor use only. No new licenses will be authorized for applications received after April 1, 2002.
