
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter D - Safety and Special Radio Services
#### PART 101 - FIXED MICROWAVE SERVICES
##### Subpart P - Multichannel Video Distribution and Data Service Rules for the 12.2-12.7 GHz Band
###### ยง 101.1440 MVDDS protection of DBS.
####### Coordination between MVDDS and DBS licensees.

(d)(1) At least 90 days prior to the planned date of MVDDS commencement of operations, the MVDDS licensee shall provide the following information to the DBS licensee(s):

(i) Geographic location (including NAD 83 coordinates) of its proposed station location;

(ii) Maximum EIRP of each transmitting antenna system;

(iii) Height above ground level for each transmitting antenna;

(iv) Antenna type along with main beam azimuth and altitude orientation information, and description of the antenna radiation pattern;

(v) Description of the proposed service area; and

(vi) Survey results along with a technical description of how it determined compliance with the appropriate EPFD level at all DBS subscriber locations.

(2) No later than forty-five days after receipt of the MVDDS system information in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the DBS licensee(s) shall provide the MVDDS licensee with a list of only those new DBS customer locations that have been installed in the 30-day period following the MVDDS notification and that the DBS licensee believes may receive harmful interference or where the prescribed EPFD limits may be exceeded. In addition, the DBS licensee(s) could indicate agreement with the MVDDS licensee's technical assessment, or identify DBS customer locations that the MVDDS licensee failed to consider or DBS customer locations where they believe the MVDDS licensee erred in its analysis and could exceed the prescribed EPFD limit.

(3) Prior to commencement of operation, the MVDDS licensee must take into account any new DBS customers or other relevant information provided by DBS licensees in response to the notification in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(e) Beginning thirty days after the DBS licensees are notified of a potential MVDDS site in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the DBS licensees are responsible for providing information they deem necessary for those entities who install all future DBS receive antennas on its system to take into account the presence of MVDDS operations so that these DBS receive antennas can be located in such a way as to avoid the MVDDS signal. These later installed DBS receive antennas shall have no further rights of complaint against the notified MVDDS transmitting antenna(s).

(f) In the event of either an increase in the EPFD contour in any direction or a major modification as defined in ยง 1.929 of this chapter, such as the addition of an antenna, to an MVDDS station, the procedures of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section and rights of complaint begin anew. Exceptions to this are renewal, transfer of control, and assignment of license applications.
