
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 213 - GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC CORRESPONDENCE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRECEDENCE SYSTEM
#### ยง 213.5 Precedence designators.

(a) The following precedence designators are available for Government and public correspondence users:

(b) Government and non-Government users of public correspondence services will handle their international messages in accordance with current ITU Telegraph Regulations. Government users should note that, generally, the only precedence designator available for their use for international messages sent over public correspondence circuits if Etat Priorite. The ITU Regulations do not contain precedence designators which equate to Flash, Immediate, or Priority. Accordingly, Government messages whether Flash, Immediate, or Priority precedence when sent over international public correspondence circuits will be handled as Etat Priorite messages. Thus, Priority messages will receive the same treatment in transmission and processing as Immediate or Flash messages. Conversely, Etat Priorite messages received in the United States shall be transmitted and processed in the order of receipt, to the extent possible. The precedence designator available for non-Government users of public correspondence services is Urgent. The Urgent designator is limited for use only during wartime conditions, as declared pursuant to section 606 of the Communications Act of 1934.
