
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 213 - GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC CORRESPONDENCE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRECEDENCE SYSTEM
#### ยง 213.6 Criteria.
##### Flash, Flash Emergency.

(a)(1) This is the highest order of precedence and shall be strictly limited to Federal and Foreign Government agencies.

(2) Flash, or Flash Emergency telephone calls or messages shall be handled in the order received and ahead of all calls or messages except as indicated for international messages in ITU Regulations. When necessary to obtain a circuit for a Flash, or Flash Emergency call any call in progress of a lesser precedence will be interrupted, if feasible. Any message of a lesser precedence in the process of transmission will be halted, if feasible, to clear the channel for the Flash or Flash Emergency transmission. Flash or Flash Emergency precedence shall be reserved for calls and messages having an immediate bearing on:

(i) Command and control of military forces essential to defense and retaliation.

(ii) Critical intelligence essential to national survival.

(iii) Conduct of diplomatic negotiations critical to the arresting or limiting of hostilities.

(iv) Dissemination of critical civil alert information essential to national survival.

(v) Continuity of Federal governmental functions essential to national survival.

(vi) Fulfillment of critical U.S. internal security functions essential to national survival.

(vii) Catastrophic events of national or international significance, such as Presidential Action Notices essential to national survival during attack or preattack conditions.
