
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 213 - GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC CORRESPONDENCE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRECEDENCE SYSTEM
#### ยง 213.6 Criteria.
##### Priority, Priority Emergency, Urgent.,Routine,

(c)Priority, Priority Emergency, or Urgent messages and calls shall take precedence over messages or calls designatedor in the case of common carriers, over all nonprecedence traffic. Priority, Priority Emergency, or Urgent precedence is generally reserved for calls or messages which require expeditious action. Examples are calls or messages pertaining to:

(1) Information on locations where attack is impending or where fire or air support will soon be placed.

(2) Air-ground integrated operations.

(3) Important intelligence.

(4) Important diplomatic information.

(5) Important information concerning the launch, operation, or recovery of spacecraft or missiles.

(6) Movement of naval, air, and ground forces.

(7) Coordination between governmental agencies concerning the performance of emergency preparedness functions.

(8) Major civil aircraft accidents.

(9) Maintaining the public health, safety, and the welfare of our population.

(10) Critical logistic functions, provisions of critical public utility services, and administrative military support functions.

(11) Distributing essential food and supplies critical to health.

(12) Accomplishing tasks necessary to insure critical damage control functions.

(13) Preparations for adequate hospitalization.

(14) Continuity of critical Government functions.

(15) Arranging minimum transportation for accomplishing the aforesaid functions.

(16) Continuing or reestablishing our more important financial, economic, health, and safety activities. Producing, procuring, and distributing food materials and supplies which are considered necessary to the immediate support of a war effort, the national defense, or for expediting the means of meeting the effects of natural disasters.

(17) Prompt delivery of information by press representatives to news media organizations and newspapers covering news of national or widespread disasters.
