
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Responsibilities.

8.

a. NCS member organizations:

(1) May propose subjects for and develop new issuances, and propose changes in existing issuances.

(2) May review and provide comments regarding proposed NCS directives, circulars, and manuals, as desired or authorized by paragraph 9e below.

(3) May consider and comment upon NCS handbooks and notices.

b. The NCS Committee of Principals and Executive Agent:

(1) May propose subjects for and develop new issuances, and propose changes in existing issuances.

(2) Will review and provide comments as needed to the Executive Office of the President regarding proposed NCS directives and circulars.

(3) Will consider and approve, and may comment upon, NCS manuals, as specified in paragraph 9 below.

(4) May consider and comment upon NCS handbooks and notices.

c. The Manager, NCS:

(1) Will maintain and administer the NCS Issuance System.

(2) May propose subjects for and develop new issuances, and propose changes in existing issuances.

(3) Will consider, issue, and comment upon, as needed, NCS manuals (as specified in paragraph 9 below), handbooks, notices, and OMNCS office orders.

(4) Will forward NCS issuances and any comments thereon to the NCS Committee of Principals; Executive Agent, NCS; and/or Executive Office of the President, as required.
