
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Delegations of Authority.

9.

a. The NCS Committee of Principals and Executive Agent are hereby delegated the authority to approve NCS manuals, subject to the conditions specified below in paragraphs 9 d and e.

b. The Manager, NCS, is hereby delegated the authority to issue NCS manuals, handbooks, and notices.

c. The Manager, NCS, is hereby delegated the authority to approve and issue OMNCS office orders. The Manager may further delegate this authority.

d. NCS manuals will be issued 30 calendar days following notification to the NCS Committee of Principals of approval by the Committee of Principals and Executive Agent, but only (1) if authorized by an NCS directive or circular, and (2) subject to the condition specified in paragraph 9e below.

e. Upon either approval or disapproval of an NCS manual by the Committee of Principals and/or Executive Agent, the NCS Executive Agent, Manager, Committee of Principals, and member organizations may, within 30 calendar days after notification to the Committee of Principals of such action, submit a written request for review of the manual to the Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy; Director, Office of Management and Budget; or Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. Any such request will include reasons. Copies of the request shall be provided concurrently to the NCS Committee of Principals, Executive Agent, and Manager, as necessary. For a period of 30 calendar days thereafter, any NCS entity may submit comments to the Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy; Director, Office of Management and Budget; or Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. Any manual under such review may not be issued until resolution of the matter in question by (1) direction from the Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy, and/or Director, Office of Management and Budget, after consideration by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; or (2) withdrawal of each request for review.
