
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Procedures.

9.

a. Key NSEP Telecommunications Planning Process elements will be developed and considered on an annual basis as follows:

(1) Capability Objectives will be presented for NCS COP consideration by the Manager, NCS; forwarded with NCS COP recommendations to the Executive Agent, NCS; and transmitted with NCS COP and Executive Agent recommendations to the NSC, OSTP, and OMB for validation.

(2) Deficiencies and Priorities will be presented to the NCS COP by the Manager, NCS; forwarded with NCS COP recommendations to the Executive Agent, NCS; and transmitted with NCS COP and Executive Agent recommendations to the NSC, OSTP, and OMB for information and reference.

(3) Candidate Initiatives will be presented to the NCS COP by the Manager, NCS; forwarded with NCS COP recommendations to the Executive Agent, NCS, OSTP, and OMB for information and reference.

(4) A proposed National Level Program will be presented for NCS COP consideration in March by the Manager, NCS; forwarded with NCS COP recommendations to the Executive Agent, NCS; and transmitted with NCS and Executive Agent recommendations to the NSC, OSTP, and OMB for review in May.

b. Preparation of the final National Level Program completes the annual planning cycle. However, it does not complete the budgetary cycle, which continues until budget requests are submitted to OMB for inclusion in the President's Budget. It is anticipated that, following consideration and approval of the National Level Program by the EOP, approved recommendations will be provided to OMB and the NCS member organizations for use in preparation of the President's Budget.

c. As necessary, the EOP will also provide specific program funding and budgetary guidance to the NCS member organizations for the development of NSEP telecommunications budget requests.
