
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Procedures.

8.

a. NLP Funding Guidance. The NLP funding guidance required by paragraph 7a(1) of this directive will be provided to the NCS entities annually by August 1.

b. NLP Funding Agreements. The shared funding of approved national level NSEP telecommunications programs will be accomplished through the execution, between NCS member organizations and the Manager, NCS of the following:

(1) An NLP Funding Memorandum of Agreement that, as outlined in the model MOA at appendix B, provides for incorporation of the NLP funding share in an NCS member organization's budget submission; preparation and execution of an Interagency Funding Agreement; and reporting of the NLP status. Those NCS organizations required to share the costs of the NLP as of the effective date of this directive shall execute such Memoranda by September 30, 1987.

(2) An Interagency Funding Agreement that outlines the scope of work to be undertaken as part of the NLP, the associated period of performance, the estimated maximum costs, and procedures for submission of vouchers for transfers between appropriated funds. This agreement, which does not constitute an obligation of funds, shall be executed by August 31 each year to provide for the payment of NLP funds for the following fiscal year.

(3) Vouchers for Transfers Between Appropriations And/Or Funds (Standard Form 1080) forwarded by the Manager, NCS, to the NCS member organizations prior to the start of the fiscal year in which NLP funds are to be expended. Organizations will effect the payment of funds upon receipt of appropriated funds (or Continuing Resolution(s)), subject to OMB apportionment of those funds.

c. NLP Funding Shortfalls. If an NCS member organization is not authorized and appropriated the amount of funds necessary to pay its share of approved national level NSEP telecommunications programs, the Manager, NCS, should also be notified as soon as possible.
