
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Definitions.

6.

a. Shared Funding. The pro rata distribution among NCS member organizations of the implementation and recurring costs of approved national level NSEP telecommunications programs on the basis of each organization's NSEP telecommunications requirements.

b. NSEP Telecommunications Requirements. Initially, those telecommunications requirements identified by NCS member organizations as part of the NSEP Telecommunications Requirements Analysis directed by the Executive Office of the President. Alternative methods for determining requirements may be used, subject to approval as prescribed in Executive Order No. 12472, section 2(c)(4).

c. The National Level NSEP Telecommunications Program (NLP). That document developed as part of the NSEP Telecommunications Planning Process that identifies national level NSEP telecommunications programs and accompanying provisions for their shared funding and implementation.

d. National Level NSEP Telecommunications Programs. Those programs that benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities and:

(1) Directly enhance national telecommunications infrastructure and service capabilities within the framework outlined in Executive Order No. 12472, and

(2) Are undertaken within the administrative structure of the NCS, i.e., by the Manager, NCS, NCS Committee of Principals (COP), and Executive Agent, NCS, via the NSEP Telecommunications Planning Process, and

(3) Involved acquisition and operations/maintenance costs of sufficient magnitude to warrant shared funding.

e. Development Costs. Those costs (e.g., research, pre-production engineering, proof of concept studies and demonstrations, and specification development) incurred prior to contract award leading to an operational capability.

f. Implementation Costs. Those costs (e.g., acquisition/procurement, production engineering, installation, and nonrecurring lease) incurred after contract award leading to an operational capability and prior to operational capability being achieved.

g. Recurring Costs. Those costs (e.g., recurring lease, maintenance, operational testing, and termination liability) incurred in support of the continuing operations and maintenance associated with national level programs.

h. NLP Funding Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). A memorandum of agreement developed between an NCS member organization and the Manager, NCS, to implement the provisions of this directive.

i. Funding Agreements. Funding documents, e.g., Interagency Funding Agreements and Vouchers, executed between the Manager, NCS, and NCS member organizations to provide for the payment of NLP funds to the Manager, NCS.
