
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Policy.

8.The NSEP TSP System is the regulatory, administrative, and operational system authorizing and providing for priority treatment (i.e., provisioning, and restoration) of NSEP telecommunication services (see definition in appendix). As such, it establishes the framework for NSEP telecommunication service vendors to provision, restore, or otherwise act on a priority basis to ensure effective NSEP telecommunication services. The NSEP TSP System allows the assignment of priority levels to any NSEP service across three time periods, or stress conditions: Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, Attack/War, and Post-Attack/Recovery. All requests for priority level assignments will be processed through the Manager, NCS. Although priority levels normally will be assigned by the Manager, NCS, and retained by service vendors, only for the current time period, they may also be preassigned for the other two time periods at the request of service users who are able to identify and justify, in advance, their wartime or post-attack NSEP telecommunication requirements. Absent such preassigned priority levels for the Attack/War and Post-Attack/Recovery periods, priority level assignments for the Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization period will remain in effect. At all times, priority level assignments will be subject to revision by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC); or, on an interim basis, the Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP); and the Manager, NCS, based upon changing NSEP needs. No other system of telecommunication service priorities which conflicts with the NSEP TSP System is authorized.
