
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Manager, NCS.

c.The Manager, NCS, will:

(1) Implement the NSEP TSP System under the oversight of the FCC and Director, OSTP, in consultation with the NCS Committee of Principals.

(2) Administer the NSEP TSP System, which includes:

(a) Receiving, processing, and evaluating requests for priority actions from service users, or sponsoring Federal government organizations on behalf of service users (e.g., Departments of State or Defense on behalf of foreign governments, Federal Emergency Management Agency on behalf of state and local governments, and any Federal organization on behalf of private industry entities). Action on such requests will be completed within 30 days of receipt.

(b) Assigning, revising, revalidating, or revoking priority levels as necessary or upon request of service users concerned, and denying requests for priority actions as necessary, using paragraph 16 of this directive. Under circumstances short of exercise of Presidential war emergency powers under section 706 of the Communications Act and time permitting, coordinate such changes in priority level assignments in advance with requesting and/or affected parties. Action on such requests will be completed within 30 days of receipt.

(c) Maintaining data on priority level assignments.

(d) Periodically forwarding to the FCC and Director, OSTP, lists of priority actions for review and approval.

(e) Periodically initiating reconciliation.

(f) Testing and evaluating the NSEP TSP System for effectiveness.

(g) Conducting audits as necessary. Any Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System user may request the Manager, NCS to conduct an audit. (See the definition of an "audit" in appendix A.)

(h) Issuing, subject to review by the FCC, procedures supplemental to and consistent with this directive regarding operation and use of the NSEP TSP System.

(i) Serving as a centralized point-of-contact for collecting and disseminating to all interested parties (consistent with requirements for treatment of classified and proprietary material) information concerning use and abuse of the NSEP TSP System.

(j) Establishing and assisting a TSP System Oversight Committee to identify and review any problems developing in the system and recommending actions to correct them or prevent recurrence. In addition to representatives of the EOP, representatives from private industry (including telecommunication service vendors), state and local governments, the FCC, and other organizations may be appointed to the committee.

(k) Reporting at least quarterly to the FCC; Director, OSTP; and TSP System Oversight Committee, together with any recommendations for action, the operational status of and trends in the NSEP TSP System, including:

(i) Numbers of requests processed for the various priority actions, and the priority levels assigned.

(ii) Relative percentages of services assigned to each priority level under each NSEP category and subcategory.

(iii) Any apparent serious misassignment or abuse of priority level assignments.

(iv) Any existing or developing problem.

(l) Submitting semi-annually to the FCC; Director, OSTP; and TSP System Oversight Committee a summary report identifying the time and event associated with each invocation of NSEP treatment under paragraph 13c of this directive and section 10c of 47 CFR part 64; whether the NSEP service requirement was adequately handled; and whether any additional charges were incurred. These reports will be due by April 30th for the preceding July through December and by October 31st for the preceding January through June time periods.

(3) Function (on a discretionary basis) as a sponsoring Federal organization. (See paragraph 10d below.)
