
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Service Users.

i.Service users, or entities acting on their behalf, will:

(1) Identify services requiring priority level assignments and request and justify priority level assignments in accordance with this directive and any supplemental NCS issuances.

(2) Justify and revalidate all priority level assignments at least every three years.

(3) For services assigned priority levels, ensure (through contractual means or otherwise) availability of customer premises equipment and wiring necessary for end-to-end service operation by the service due date, and continued operation; and, for such services in the Emergency NSEP category, by the time that vendors are prepared to provide the services. Additionally, designate the organization responsible for the service on an end-to-end basis.

(4) Be prepared to accept services assigned priority levels by the service due dates or, for services in the Emergency NSEP category, when they are available.

(5) Pay vendors any authorized costs associated with services that are assigned priority levels.

(6) Report to vendors any failed or unusable services that are assigned priority levels.

(7) Designate a 24-hour point-of-contact for matters concerning each request for priority action and apprise the Manager, NCS.

(8) Upon termination of services that are assigned priority levels, or circumstances warranting revisions in priority level assignment (e.g., expansion of service), request and justify revocation or revision.

(9) When NSEP treatment is invoked under paragraph 13c of this directive, within 90 days following provisioning of the service involved, forward to the Manager, NCS complete information identifying the time and event associated with the invocation and regarding whether the NSEP service requirement was adequately handled and whether any additional charges were incurred.

(10) Cooperate with the Manager, NCS, during reconciliation, revalidation, and audits.
