
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Preemption of Existing Services.

11.When necessary to provision or restore NSEP services, service vendors may preempt services they provide as specified below. "User," as used in this section, means any user of a telecommunications service, to include both NSEP and non-NSEP services. Prior consent by a preempted user is not required.

a. The sequence in which existing services may be preempted to provision NSEP services assigned a provisioning priority level "E" or restore NSEP services assigned a restoration priority level from "1" through "5":

(1) Non-NSEP services: If suitable spare services are not available, then, based on the considerations in 47 CFR part 64 and the service vendor's best judgement, non-NSEP services will be preempted. After ensuring a sufficient number of public switched services will remain available for public use, based on the service vendor's best judgement, such services may be used to satisfy a requirement for provisioning or restoring NSEP services.

(2) NSEP Services: If no suitable spare or non-NSEP services are available, then existing NSEP services may be preempted to provision or restore NSEP services with higher priority level assignments. When this is necessary, NSEP services will be selected for preemption in the inverse order of priority level assignment.

(3) Service vendors who are preempting services will ensure their best effort to notify the service user of the preempted service and state the reason for and estimated duration of the preemption.

b. Service vendors may, based on their best judgement, determine the sequence in which existing services may be preempted to provision NSEP services assigned a provisioning priority of "1" through "5." Preemption is not subject to the consent of the user whose service will be preempted.
