
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Essential NSEP.

c.Telecommunication services in the Essential NSEP category are those required to be provisioned by due dates specified by service users, or restored promptly, normally without regard to associated overtime or expediting costs. They may be assigned priority levels of "1," "2," "3," "4," or "5" for both provisioning and restoration, depending upon the nature and urgency of the supported function, the impact of a lack of service or service interruption upon the supported function, and, for priority access to public switched services, the user's level of responsibility. Priority level assignments will be valid for no more than three years unless revalidated. To be categorized as Essential NSEP, a telecommunications service must qualify under one of the four subcategories described below: National Security Leadership; National Security Posture and U.S. Population Attack Warning; Public Health, Safety, and Maintenance of Law and Order; or Public Welfare and Maintenance of the National Economic Posture. (Note: Under emergency circumstances, Essential NSEP telecommunication services may be recategorized as Emergency NSEP and assigned a priority level "E" for provisioning.)

(1) National Security Leadership. This subcategory will be strictly limited to only those telecommunication services essential to national survival if nuclear attack threatens or occurs, and critical orderwire and control services necessary to ensure the rapid and efficient provisioning or restoration of other NSEP telecommunication services. Services in this subcategory are those for which a service interruption of even a few minutes would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP function.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must be at least one of the following:

(i) Critical orderwire, or control service, supporting other NSEP functions.

(ii) Presidential communications service critical to continuity of government and national leadership during crisis situations.

(iii) National Command Authority communications service for military command and control critical to National survival.

(iv) Intelligence communications service critical to warning of potentially catastrophic attack.

(v) Communications service supporting the conduct of diplomatic negotiations critical to arresting or limiting hostilities.

(b) Priority Level Assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned, during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, priority level "1" for provisioning and restoration.

(2) National Security Posture and U.S. Population Attack Warning. This subcategory covers those minimum additional telecommunication services essential to maintaining an optimum defense, diplomatic, or continuity-of-government posture before, during, and after crisis situations. Such situations are those ranging from national emergencies to international crises, including nuclear attack. Services in this subcategory are those for which a service interruption ranging from a few minutes to one day would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP function.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must support at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(i) Threat assessment and attack warning.

(ii) Conduct of diplomacy.

(iii) Collection, processing, and dissemination of intelligence.

(iv) Command and control of military forces.

(v) Military mobilization.

(vi) Continuity of Federal government before, during, and after crisis situations.

(vii) Continuity of state and local government functions supporting the Federal government during and after national emergencies.

(viii) Recovery of critical national functions after crisis situations.

(ix) National space operations.

(b) Priority Level Assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned, during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, priority levels "2," "3," "4," or "5" for provisioning and restoration.

(3) Public Health, Safety, and Maintenance of Law and Order. This subcategory covers the minimum number of telecommunication services necessary for giving civil alert to the U.S. population and maintaining law and order and the health and safety of the U.S. population in times of any national, regional, or serious local emergency. These services are those for which a service interruption ranging from a few minutes to one day would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP functions.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must support at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(i) Population warning (other than attack warning).

(ii) Law enforcement.

(iii) Continuity of critical state and local government functions (other than support of the Federal government during and after national emergencies).

(iv) Hospitals and distribution of medical supplies.

(v) Critical logistic functions and public utility services.

(vi) Civil air traffic control.

(vii) Military assistance to civil authorities.

(viii) Defense and protection of critical industrial facilities.

(ix) Critical weather services.

(x) Transportation to accomplish the foregoing NSEP functions.

(b) Priority Level Assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned, during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, priority levels "3," "4," or "5" for provisioning and restoration.

(4) Public Welfare and Maintenance of National Economic Posture. This subcategory covers the minimum number of telecommunication services necessary for maintaining the public welfare and national economic posture during any national or regional emergency. These services are those for which a service interruption ranging from a few minutes to one day would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP function.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must support at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(i) Distribution of food and other essential supplies.

(ii) Maintenance of national monetary, credit, and financial systems.

(iii) Maintenance of price, wage, rent, and salary stabilization, and consumer rationing programs.

(iv) Control of production and distribution of strategic materials and energy supplies.

(v) Prevention and control of environmental hazards or damage.

(vii) Transportation to accomplish the foregoing NSEP functions.

(b) Priority Level Assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned, during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, priority levels "4" or "5" for provisioning and restoration.
