
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Emergency NSEP.

b.Telecommunication services in the Emergency NSEP category are those new services so critical as to be required to be provisioned at the earliest possible time, without regard to the costs of obtaining them.

(1) Criteria. To qualify under the Emergency NSEP category, the service must meet the criteria of directly supporting or resulting from at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(a) Federal government activity responding to a Presidentially declared disaster or emergency as defined in the Disaster Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5122).

(b) State or local government activity responding to a Presidentially, state, or locally declared disaster or emergency.

(c) Response to a state of crisis declared by the National Command Authorities (e.g., exercise of presidential war emergency powers under Section 706 of the Communications Act, supra).

(d) Efforts to protect endangered U.S. personnel or property.

(e) Response to an enemy or terrorist action, civil disturbance, natural disaster, or any other unpredictable occurrence that has damaged facilities whose uninterrupted operation is critical to NSEP or the management of other ongoing crises.

(f) Certification by the head or director of a Federal agency, commander of a unified/specified command, chief of a military service, or commander of a major military command, that the telecommunications service is so critical to protection of life and property or to NSEP that it must be provided immediately.
