
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### General.

a.NSEP TSP System categories and criteria, and permissible priority level assignments, are defined and explained below.

(1) The Essential NSEP category has four subcategories (i.e., National Security Leadership; National Security Posture and U.S. Population Attack Warning; Public Health, Safety, and Maintenance of Law and Order; and Public Welfare and Maintenance of National Economic Posture). Each subcategory has its own criteria. Criteria are also shown for the Emergency NSEP category, which has no subcategories.

(2) Priority levels of "1," "2," "3," "4," and "5" may be assigned for provisioning and/or restoration of Essential NSEP telecommunication services. However, for Emergency NSEP telecommunication services, a priority level "E" is assigned for provisioning. A restoration priority level from "1" through "5" may be assigned if an Emergency NSEP service also qualifies for such a restoration priority level under the Essential NSEP category.

(3) The NSEP TSP System allows the assignment of priority levels to any NSEP telecommunications service across three time periods, or stress conditions: Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, Attack/War, and Post-Attack/Recovery. Priority levels will normally be assigned only for the first time period. These assigned priority levels will apply through the onset of any attack, but it is expected that they would later be revised by surviving authorized telecommunication resource managers within the Executive Office of the President based upon specific facts and circumstances arising during the Attack/War and Post-Attack/Recovery time periods.

(4) Service users may, for their own internal use, assign subpriorities to their services assigned priority levels. Receipt of and response to any such subpriorities is optional for service vendors.

(5) The following paragraphs provide a detailed explanation of the categories, subcategories, criteria, and priority level assignments, beginning with the Emergency NSEP category.
