
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Use of Priority Level Assignments.

b.

(1) All provisioning and restoration priority level assignments for services in the Emergency NSEP category will be included in initial service orders to vendors. Provision priority level assignments for Essential NSEP services, however, will not usually be included in initial service orders to vendors. NSEP treatment for Essential NSEP services will be invoked and provisioning priority level assignments will be conveyed to service vendors only if the vendors cannot meet needed service dates through the normal provisioning process.

(2) Any revision or revocation of either provisioning or restoration priority level assignments will also be transmitted to vendors.

(3) Service vendors shall accept priority levels and/or revisions only after assignment by the Manager, NCS. (Service vendors acting as prime contractors for NSEP services will accept assigned NSEP priority levels only when they are accompanied by the Manager, NCS designated service identification (i.e., TSP Authorization Code). However, service vendors are authorized to accept priority levels and/or revisions from users and contracting activities before assignment by the Manager, NCS when service vendors, users, and contracting activities are unable to communicate with either the FCC, Director, OSTP, or the Manager, NCS. Processing of Emergency NSEP service requests will not be delayed for verification purposes.
