
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Expiration.

19.This directive is in effect until superseded or cancelled.

A. Definitions

Dated: July 5, 1990.

Dated: July 5, 1990.

Dated: July 5, 1990.

For the purposes of this Directive:

The designation of priority level(s) for a defined NSEP telecommunications service for a specified time period.

A quality assurance review in response to identified problems.

As specified by Executive Order 12472, a committee consisting of representatives from those Federal departments, agencies or entities, designated by the President, which lease or own telecommunications facilities or services of significance to national security or emergency preparedness, and, to the extent permitted by law, other Executive entities which bear policy, regulatory or enforcement responsibilities of importance to national security or emergency preparedness telecommunications capabilities.

The Federal government or any foreign, state, county, municipal, or other local government agency or organization. Specific qualifications will be supplied whenever reference to a particular level of government is intended (e.g., "Federal government," "state government"). "Foreign government" means any non-U.S. sovereign empire, kingdom, state, or independent political community, including foreign diplomatic and consular establishments and coalitions or associations of governments (e.g., North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Organization of American States (OAS), and United Nations (UN); and associations of governments or government agencies or organizations (e.g., Pan American Union, International Postal Union, and International Monetary Fund).

The National Communications System (NCS) is a confederation of Federal departments, agencies and entities established by Presidential Memorandum of August 21, 1963 and reaffirmed by Executive Order No. 12472, "Assignment of National Security and Emergency Preparedness Telecommunications Functions," April 3, 1984.

The joint telecommunications industry-Federal government operation established by the NCS to assist in the initiation, coordination, restoration and reconstitution of NSEP telecommunication services or facilities.

Telecommunication services that are used to maintain a state of readiness or to respond to and manage any event or crisis (local, national, or international) that causes or could cause injury or harm to the population, damage to or loss of property, or degrades or threatens the NSEP posture of the United States. These services fall into two specific categories. Emergency NSEP and Essential NSEP, and are assigned priority levels.

The provisioning of a telecommunications service before others based on the provisioning priority level assigned by the Manager, NCS, in accordance with this directive.

The assignment, revision, revocation, or revalidation by the Manager, NCS, in accordance with this directive, of a priority level associated with an NSEP telecommunications service.

The level that may be assigned to an NSEP telecommunications service specifying the order in which provisioning or restoration of the service is to occur relative to other NSEP and/or non-NSEP telecommunication services. Authorized priority levels are designated (highest to lowest) "E,. "1," "2," "3," "4," and "5" for provisioning and "1," "2," "3," "4," and "5" for restoration.

The priority level(s) designated for the provisioning and/or restoration of a particular NSEP telecommunications service.

Those non-common carrier telecommunication services including private line, virtual private line, and private switched network services.

The act of supplying telecommunications service to a user, including all associated transmission, wiring, and equipment. As used herein, "provisioning" and "initiation" are synonymous and include altering the state of an existing priority service or capability.

Those NSEP telecommunication services utilizing public switched networks. Such services may include both interexchange and intraexchange network facilities (e.g., switching systems, interoffice trunks and subscriber loops).

The comparison of NSEP service information and the resolution of identified discrepancies.

The repair or returning to service of one or more telecommunication services that have experienced a service outage or are unusable for any reason, including a damaged or impaired telecommunications facility. Such repair or returning to service may be done by patching, rerouting, substitution of component parts or pathways, and other means, as determined necessary by a service vendor.

The rejustification by a service user of a priority level assignment. This may result in extension by the Manager, NCS, in accordance with this directive, of the expiration date associated with the priority level assignment.

A change in priority level assignment for an NSEP telecommunications service. This includes any extension of an existing priority level assignment to an expanded NSEP service.

The elimination of a priority level assignment when it is no longer valid. All priority level assignments for an NSEP service are revoked upon service termination.

Information uniquely identifying an NSEP telecommunications service to the service vendor and/or service user.

Any individual or organization (including a service vendor) supported by a telecommunications service for which a priority level has been requested or assigned.

Any person, association, partnership, corporation, organization, or other entity (including common carriers and government organizations) that offers to supply any telecommunication equipment, facilities, or services (including customer premises equipment and wiring) or combination thereof. The term includes resale carriers, prime contractors, subcontractors, and interconnecting carriers.

Circuits or services not being used or contracted for by any customer.

The transmission, emission, or reception of signals, signs, writing, images, sounds, or intelligence of any nature, by wire, cable, satellite, fiber optics, laser, radio, visual, or other electronic, electric, electromagnetic, or acoustically coupled means, or any combination thereof. The term can include necessary telecommunication facilities.

Any individual, organization, or activity that interacts with the TSP System.
