
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter II - Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council
### PART 216 - NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ISSUANCE SYSTEM
#### Appendix to Part 216 - NCS Directives
##### Responsibilities.

7.

a. NCS entities participating in the SHARES HF Radio Program will, to the maximum extent possible:

(1) Identify HF stations under their control for participation in the SHARES Program.

(2) Maintain the operational readiness of their SHARES HF stations.

(3) Provide updated information as necessary for inclusion in a SHARES HF Radio Program Directory. Use of Federal frequencies for SHARES traffic shall be in accordance with National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) "Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management."

(4) Ensure participation of available stations in scheduled exercises.

(5) Provide representation, as required, at meetings, briefings, conferences, and other official SHARES HF Radio Program activities.

b. The Manager, NCS, will administer the SHARES HF Radio Program and perform the management functions defined below:

(1) Publish and periodically update, as NCS issuances, a User Manual, giving detailed procedures for using SHARES HF Radio Program capabilities, and HF Directory of participating Federally controlled HF radio stations.

(2) Develop, schedule, and administer periodic exercises of the SHARES HF Radio Program capabilities.

(3) Perform other functions, as necessary, to improve SHARES capabilities.
