
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter V - The First Responder Network Authority
### Subchapter A - National Telecommunications and Information Administration Regulations
#### PART 500 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF FEES PROPOSED BY THE FIRST RESPONDER NETWORK AUTHORITY (FIRSTNET)
##### ยง 500.5 Methodology of NTIA fee review and approval process.
###### Process and timing of NTIA fee review.

(g)For each fiscal year, FirstNet and NTIA will abide by the following Fee Review Schedule:

(1) Prior to assessing fees for a given fiscal year, FirstNet shall submit to NTIA its proposed fees for that given fiscal year and all standard financial documentation that will support its fee projections pursuant to this part.

(2) No later than 15 days after FirstNet submits items under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, NTIA shall either notify FirstNet of its approval of the FirstNet proposed fees in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section or submit any questions or requests for clarifications to FirstNet regarding the submission listed in paragraph (g)(1).

(3) No later than 15 days after FirstNet receives questions or requests for clarification from NTIA under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, FirstNet shall submit responses to NTIA.

(4) No later than 15 days after receiving responses from FirstNet under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, NTIA shall approve or disapprove FirstNet's proposed fees pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) Should NTIA disapprove FirstNet's proposed fees, FirstNet and NTIA will abide by the following Revised Fee Review Schedule until such time as NTIA approves the revised fees:

(i) 15 days after disapproval: FirstNet shall submit revised proposed fees to NTIA pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.

(ii) 15 days after revised fees submission to NTIA: NTIA shall submit any questions or requests for clarifications to FirstNet regarding the submission listed in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section.

(iii) 15 days after NTIA submits questions to FirstNet: FirstNet shall submit responses to the questions listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section.

(iv) 15 days after NTIA receives responses from FirstNet to NTIA questions, NTIA shall approve or disapprove FirstNet's revised proposed fees pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
