
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### ยง 0.460 Requests for inspection of records which are routinely available for public inspection.
######## https://www.fcc.gov,https://www.fcc.gov/general/freedom-information-act-electronic-reading-room.

(a) Section 0.453 specifies those Commission records which are routinely available for public inspection and the places at which those records may be inspected. Subject to the limitations set out in this section, a person who wants to inspect such records must submit a request to the Reference Information Center. Many records also are available on the Commission's website,and the Commission's electronic reading room,Commission documents are generally published in the FCC Record, and many of these documents or summaries thereof are also published in the.

(b) Arrangements to review records must be made in advance, by telephone or by correspondence, by contacting the Reference Information Center.

(c) The records in question must be reasonably described by the person requesting them to permit their location by staff personnel. The information needed to locate the records will vary, depending on the records requested. Advice concerning the kind of information needed to locate particular records will be furnished in advance upon request. Members of the public will not be given access to the area in which records are kept and will not be permitted to search the files.

(d) If it appears that there will be an appreciable delay in locating or producing the records (as where a large number of documents is the subject of a single request or where an extended search for a document appears to be necessary), the requester may be directed to submit or confirm the request in writing.
