
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### ยง 0.460 Requests for inspection of records which are routinely available for public inspection.
######## see

(2) Written requests shall be delivered or mailed directly to the Commission's Reference Information Center (ยง 0.465(a)).

(f) When a written request is received by the Reference Information Center, it will be date-stamped.

(g) All requests limited to records listed in ยง 0.453 will be granted, subject to paragraph (j) of this section.

(h) The records will be produced for inspection at the earliest possible time.

(i) If the requester is provided access to a physical copy, records shall be inspected within 7 days after notice is given that they have been located and are available for inspection. After that period, they will be returned to storage and additional charges may be imposed for again producing them.

(j) In addition to the other requirements of this section, the following provisions apply to the reports filed with the Commission pursuant to 5 CFR parts 2634 and 3902.

(1) Such reports shall not be obtained or used:

(i) For any unlawful purpose;

(ii) For any commercial purpose, other than by news and communications media for dissemination to the general public;

(iii) For determining or establishing the credit rating of any individual; or

(iv) For use, directly or indirectly, in the solicitation of money for any political, charitable, or other purpose.

(2) Such reports may not be made available to any person nor may any copy thereof be provided to any person except upon a written application by such person stating:

(i) That person's name, occupation and address;

(ii) The name and address of any other person or organization on whose behalf the inspection or copying is requested; and

(iii) That such person is aware of the prohibitions on the obtaining or use of the report. Further, any such application for inspection shall be made available to the public throughout the period during which the report itself is made available to the public.
