
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### ยง 0.461 Requests for inspection of materials not routinely available for public inspection.
######## See

Any person desiring to inspect Commission records that are not specified in ยง 0.453 shall file a request for inspection meeting the requirements of this section. The FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist persons seeking records under this section.ยง 0.441(a).

(a)(1) Records include:

(i) Any information that would be an agency record subject to the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act when maintained by the Commission in any format, including an electronic format; and

(ii) Any information maintained for the Commission by an entity under Government contract.

(2) The records in question must be reasonably described by the person requesting them to permit personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, a request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. Requests must also specify the date or time period for the records sought. The custodian of records sought may contact the requester to obtain further information about the records sought to assist in locating them.

(3) The person requesting records under this section may specify the form or format of the records to be produced provided that the records may be made readily reproducible in the requested form or format.
