
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart V - Commission Collection of Advanced Telecommunications Capability Data and Local Exchange Competition Data
###### ยง 1.7001 Scope and content of filed reports.
####### H3 standardized geospatial indexing system.,e.g.,

(20)A system developed by Uber Technologies, Inc., that overlays the Earth with hexagonal cells of different sizes at various resolutions. The smallest hexagonal cells are at resolution 15, in which the average hexagonal cell has an area of approximately 0.9 square meters, and the largest are at resolution 0, in which the average hexagonal cell has an area of approximately 4.25 million square kilometers. Hexagonal cells across different resolutions are referred to as a "hex-n" cell, where n is the resolution ("hex-15" for the smallest size hexagonal cell). The H3 standardized geospatial indexing system employs a nested cell structure wherein a lower resolution hexagonal cell (the "parent") contains approximately seven hexagonal cells at the next highest resolution (its "children"). That is, a hex-1 cell is the "parent" of seven hex-2 cells, each hex-2 cell is the parent of seven hex-3 cells, and so on.

(b) The following entities shall file with the Commission a completed FCC Form 477, in accordance with the Commission's rules and the instructions to the FCC Form 477:

(1) Facilities-based providers of broadband service;

(2) Providers of local telephone service;

(3) Facilities-based providers of mobile telephony service; and

(4) Providers of Interconnected Voice over internet Protocol (VoIP) service (as defined in ยง 9.3 of this chapter) to end users.

(c) Respondents identified in paragraph (b) of this section shall include in each report a certification signed by an appropriate official of the respondent (as specified in the instructions to FCC Form 477) and shall report the title of their certifying official.

(d) Disclosure of data contained in FCC Form 477 will be addressed as follows:

(1) Emergency operations contact information contained in FCC Form 477 is information that should not be routinely available for public inspection pursuant to section 0.457 of this chapter, in addition to other information that should not be routinely available for public inspection pursuant to ยง 0.457.

(2)(i) Respondents may request that provider-specific subscription information in FCC Form 477 filings be treated as confidential and be withheld from public inspection by so indicating on Form 477 at the time that they submit such data.

(ii) The Commission will release the following information in FCC Form 477 filings to the public, and respondents may not request confidential treatment of such information:

(A) Provider-specific mobile deployment data;

(B) Data regarding minimum advertised or expected speed for mobile broadband services; and

(C) Location information that is necessary to permit accurate broadband mapping, including crowdsourcing or challenge processes.

(3) Respondents seeking confidential treatment of any other data contained in FCC Form 477 must submit a request that the data be treated as confidential with the submission of their Form 477 filing, along with their reasons for withholding the information from the public, pursuant to ยง 0.459 of this chapter.

(4) The Commission shall make all decisions regarding non-disclosure of provider-specific information, except that the Chiefs of the Office of International Affairs, Space Bureau, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, Wireline Competition Bureau, or Office of Economics and Analytics may release provider-specific information to:

(i) A state commission, provided that the state commission has protections in place that would preclude disclosure of any confidential information,

(ii) "Eligible entities," as those entities are defined in the Broadband Data Improvement Act, in an aggregated format and pursuant to confidentiality conditions prescribed by the Commission, and

(iii) Others, to the extent that access to such data can be accomplished in a manner that addresses concerns about the competitive sensitivity of the data and precludes public disclosure of any confidential information.

(e) Respondents identified in paragraph (b) of this section shall file a revised version of FCC Form 477 if and when they discover a significant error in their filed FCC Form 477. For counts, a difference amounting to 5 percent of the filed number is considered significant. For percentages, a difference of 5 percentage points is considered significant.

(f) Failure to file the FCC Form 477 in accordance with the Commission's rules and the instructions to the Form 477 may lead to enforcement action pursuant to the Act and any other applicable law.
