
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart V - Commission Collection of Advanced Telecommunications Capability Data and Local Exchange Competition Data
###### ยง 1.7004 Scope, content, and frequency of Digital Opportunity Data Collection filings.
####### e.g.,

(C) The radio technologies used on each frequency band (802.11ac-derived orthogonal frequency division multiplexing modulation (OFDM), proprietary OFDM, long-term evolution (LTE)); and

(D) The elevation above ground for each base station.

(E) The geographic coordinates.

(iii) The following terrain and clutter information:

(A) The name and vintage of the datasets used;

(B) The resolution of clutter data;

(C) A list of clutter categories used with a description of each; and

(D) The link budget and a description of the other parameters used in the propagation model, including predicted signal strength.

(iv) Information on the height and power values used for receivers/customer premises equipment (CPE) antennas in their modeling (height must be within a range of four to seven meters).

(3) Mobile providers must submit coverage maps based on the following specified parameters:

(i) For 3G services-a minimum expected user download speed of 200 kbps and user upload speed of 50 kbps at the cell edge; for 4G LTE services-a minimum expected user download speed of 5 Mbps and user upload speed of 1 Mbps at the cell edge; for 5G-NR services-a minimum expected user download speed of 7 Mbps and user upload speed of 1 Mbps, and a minimum expected user download speed of 35 Mbps and user upload speed of 3 Mbps at the cell edge.

(ii) For each of the mobile broadband technologies, 3G, 4G LTE, and 5G-NR, and for mobile voice services, the provider's coverage maps must reflect coverage areas where users should expect to receive the minimum required download and upload speeds with cell edge coverage probability of not less than 90% and a cell loading of not less than 50%.

(iii) For each of the mobile broadband technologies, 3G, 4G LTE, and 5G-NR, and for mobile voice services, the provider's coverage maps must account for terrain and clutter and use terrain and clutter data with a resolution of 100 meters or better. Each coverage map must have a resolution of 100 meters or better.

(iv) For each of the mobile broadband technologies, 3G, 4G LTE, and 5G-NR, and for mobile voice services, the provider's coverage maps must be submitted in vector format.

(v) For each 4G LTE or 5G-NR propagation map that a provider submits, the provider also must submit a second set of maps showing Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP) signal levels in dBm, as would be measured at the industry standard of 1.5 meters above ground level (AGL), from each active cell site. A second set of maps showing Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal levels for each 3G propagation map a provider submits is only required in areas where 3G is the only technology the provider offers. The RSSI and RSRP values should be provided in 10 dB increments or finer beginning with a maximum value of -50 dBm and continuing to -120 dBm.

(4) Mobile providers must disclose the following information regarding their radio network planning tools:

(i) The name of the planning tool;

(ii) The version number used to produce the map;

(iii) The name of the developer of the planning tool;

(iv) Affirmation that the coverage model has been validated and calibrated at least one time using drive test and/or other real-world measurements completed by the provider or its vendors, to include a brief summary of the process and date of calibration; and
