
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart V - Commission Collection of Advanced Telecommunications Capability Data and Local Exchange Competition Data
###### ยง 1.7006 Data verification.
####### Mobile service verification process for mobile providers.

(c)Mobile service providers must submit either infrastructure information or on-the-ground test data in response to a request by Commission staff as part of its inquiry to independently verify the accuracy of the mobile provider's coverage propagation models and maps. In addition to submitting either on-the-ground data or infrastructure data, a provider may also submit data collected from transmitter monitoring software. The Office of Economics and Analytics and the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau may require the submission of additional data when necessary to complete a verification inquiry. A provider must submit its data, in the case of both infrastructure information and on-the-ground data, within 60 days of receiving a Commission staff request. Regarding on-the-ground data, a provider must submit evidence of network performance based on a sample of on-the-ground tests that is statistically appropriate for the area tested. A provider must verify coverage of a sampled area using the H3 geospatial indexing system at resolution 8. The on-the-ground tests will be evaluated to confirm, using a one-sided 95% statistical confidence interval, that the cell coverage is 90% or higher. In submitting data in response to a verification request, a provider must record at least two tests within each of the randomly selected hexagons where the time of the tests are at least four hours apart, irrespective of date, unless, for any sampled hexagon, the provider has and submits alongside its speed tests actual cell loading data for the cell(s) covering the hexagon sufficient to establish that median loading, measured in 15-minute intervals, did not exceed the modeled loading factor for the one-week period prior to the verification inquiry, in which case the provider is required to submit only a single test for the sampled hexagon. We will treat any tests within the sampled accessible point-hex that are outside the coverage area as valid in the case where tests were not recorded within the coverage area. If the required sampled point-hex continue to have missing tests, we will also consider tests that fall slightly outside the required point-hex but within the typical Global Positioning System (GPS) average user range error as valid when no tests are recorded within the point-hex. If the sampled point-hex still has missing tests, we would set those missing required speed tests as negative tests when performing the final adjudication. For in-vehicle mobile tests, providers must conduct tests with the antenna located inside the vehicle.

(1) When a mobile service provider chooses to demonstrate mobile broadband coverage availability by submitting on-the-ground data, the mobile service provider must provide valid on-the-ground tests within a Commission-identified statistically valid and unbiased sample of its network.

(i) On-the-ground test data must meet the following testing parameters:

(A) A minimum test length of 5 seconds and a maximum test length of 30 seconds. These test length parameters apply individually to download speed, upload speed, and round-trip latency measurements, and do not include ramp up time. The minimum test duration requirement will be relaxed once a download or upload test measurement has transferred at least 1,000 megabytes of data;
