
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart V - Commission Collection of Advanced Telecommunications Capability Data and Local Exchange Competition Data
###### ยง 1.7006 Data verification.
####### Mobile service challenge process for consumers.

(e)Consumers may submit data to challenge the accuracy of mobile broadband coverage maps. Consumers may challenge mobile coverage data based on lack of service or on poor service quality such as slow delivered user speed.

(1) Consumer challengers must provide in their submissions:

(i) Name, email address, and mobile phone number of the device on which the speed test was conducted;

(ii) Speed test data. Consumers must use a speed test app that has been designated by the Office of Engineering and Technology, in consultation with the Office of Economics and Analytics and the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, for use in the challenge process. Consumer challenges must include on-the-ground test data that meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, and must also report the timestamp that test measurement data were transmitted to the app developer's servers, as well as the source IP address and port of the device, as measured by the server;

(iii) A certification that the challenger is a subscriber or authorized user of the provider being challenged;

(iv) A certification that the speed test measurements were taken outdoors; and

(v) A certification that, to the best of the person's actual knowledge, information, and belief, the handset and the speed test application are in ordinary working order and all statements of fact contained in the submission are true and correct.

(2) Consumer speed tests will be used to create a cognizable challenge based on the following criteria:

(i) The smallest challengeable hexagonal cell is a hexagon at resolution 8 from the H3 standardized geospatial indexing system.

(ii) The download and upload components of a speed test will be evaluated separately.
