
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart V - Commission Collection of Advanced Telecommunications Capability Data and Local Exchange Competition Data
###### ยง 1.7006 Data verification.
####### e.g.,

(i) A "positive" component is one that records speeds meeting or exceeding the minimum speeds that the mobile service provider reports as available where the test occurred (a positive download component would show speeds of at least 5 Mbps for 4G LTE, and a positive upload component would show speeds of at least 1 Mbps for 4G LTE). A "negative" component is one that records speeds that fail to meet the minimum speeds that the mobile service provider reports as available where the test occurred.

(ii) A point-hex shall be defined as one of the seven nested hexagons at resolution 9 from the H3 standardized geospatial indexing system of a resolution 8 hexagon.

(iii) A point-hex shall be defined as accessible where at least 50% of the area of the point-hex overlaps with the provider's reported coverage data and the point-hex overlaps with any primary, secondary, or local road in the U.S. Census Bureau's TIGER/Line Shapefiles.

(iv) A mobile service provider that chooses to rebut a challenge to their mobile broadband coverage maps with on-the-ground speed test data must confirm that a challenged area has sufficient coverage using speed tests that were conducted during the 12 months prior to submitting a rebuttal. A provider may confirm coverage in any hex-8 cell within the challenged area. This includes any hex-8 cell that is challenged, and also any non-challenged hex-8 cell that is a child of a challenged hex-7 or hex-6 cell. Confirming non-challenged hex-8 cells can be used to confirm the challenged hex-7 or hex-6 cell. To confirm a hex-8 cell, a provider must submit on-the ground speed test data that meets the following criteria for both upload and download components:
