
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### International Bureau
####### ยง 0.51 Functions of the Bureau.

The Space Bureau has the following duties and responsibilities:

(a) To develop, recommend, and administer policies, rules, standards, and procedures for the authorization and regulation of domestic and international satellite systems.

(b) To monitor compliance with the terms and conditions of authorizations and licenses granted by the Bureau, and to pursue enforcement actions in conjunction with appropriate bureaus and offices.

(c) To facilitate the international coordination of U.S. spectrum allocations for space-based services and frequency and orbital assignments so as to minimize cases of international radio interference involving U.S. licensees.

(d) To coordinate, in consultation with other Bureaus and Offices as appropriate, negotiation of arrangements and procedures for coordination of radio frequency assignments for space-based services to prevent or resolve international radio interference involving U.S. space station and/or earth station licensees.

(e) To ensure fulfillment of the Commission's responsibilities under international agreements and treaty obligations in coordination with the Office of International Affairs, and, consistent with Commission policy, to ensure that the Commission's regulations, procedures, and frequency allocations comply with the mandatory requirements of all applicable international and bilateral agreements involving space-based services.

(f) In coordination with the Office of International Affairs, to oversee and, as appropriate, administer activities pertaining to the international consultation, coordination, and notification of U.S. frequency and orbital assignments, including activities required by bilateral agreements, the international Radio Regulations, and other international agreements.

(g) To serve as a focal point for coordination with other U.S. government agencies on matters of space policy, licensing and governance and, to support the Office of International Affairs with other Federal agencies, international or foreign organizations, and appropriate regulatory bodies and officials of foreign governments for meetings that involve space policy matters.

(h) To exercise authority to issue non-hearing related subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, schedules of charges, contracts, agreements, and any other records deemed relevant to the investigation of matters within the jurisdiction of the Space Bureau. Before issuing a subpoena, the Space Bureau shall obtain the approval of the Office of General Counsel.

(i) To assist the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau on issues involving informal consumer complaints and other general inquiries by consumers.

(j) To coordinate with the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau on all matters affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, disaster management, and related issues.
