
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart X - Spectrum Leasing
###### General Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 1.9020 Spectrum manager leasing arrangements.
######## Rights and responsibilities of the spectrum lessee.

(c)(1) The spectrum lessee must comply with the Communications Act and with Commission requirements associated with the license.

(2) The spectrum lessee is responsible for establishing that it meets the eligibility and qualification requirements applicable to spectrum lessees under the rules set forth in this section.

(3) The spectrum lessee must comply with any obligations that apply directly to it as a result of its own status as a service provider (e.g., Title II obligations if the spectrum lessee acts as a telecommunications carrier or acts as a common carrier).

(4) In addition to the licensee being directly accountable to the Commission for ensuring the spectrum lessee's compliance with the Commission's operational rules and policies (as discussed in this subpart), the spectrum lessee is independently accountable to the Commission for complying with the Communications Act and Commission policies and rules, including those that apply directly to the spectrum lessee as a result of its own status as a service provider.

(5) In leasing spectrum from a licensee, the spectrum lessee must accept Commission oversight and enforcement consistent with the license authorization. The spectrum lessee must cooperate fully with any investigation or inquiry conducted by either the Commission or the licensee, allow the Commission or the licensee to conduct on-site inspections of transmission facilities, and suspend operations at the direction of the Commission or the licensee and to the extent that such suspension would be consistent with the Commission's suspension policies.

(6) The spectrum lessee must retain a copy of the spectrum leasing agreement and make it available upon request by the Commission.
