
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### ยง 0.461 Requests for inspection of materials not routinely available for public inspection.
######## See also

(4) Multiple FOIA requests by the same or different FOIA requesters may be consolidated for disposition.ยง 0.470(b)(2).

(f) Requests for inspection of records will be acted on as follows by the custodian of the records.

(1) If the Commission is prohibited from disclosing the records in question, the request for inspection will be denied with a statement setting forth the specific grounds for denial.

(2)(i) If records in the possession of the Commission are the property of another agency, the request will be referred to that agency and the person who submitted the request will be so advised, with the reasons for referral.

(ii) If it is determined that the FOIA request seeks only records of another agency or department, the FOIA requester will be so informed by the FOIA Control Officer and will be directed to the correct agency or department.

(iii) If the records in the possession of the Commission involve the equities of another agency, the Commission will consult with that agency prior to releasing the records.

(3) If it is determined that the Commission does not have authority to withhold the records from public inspection, the request will be granted.

(4) If it is determined that the Commission has authority to withhold the records from public inspection, the considerations favoring disclosure and non-disclosure will be weighed in light of the facts presented, and the Commission may, at its discretion, grant the request in full or in part, or deny the request.

(5) If there is a statutory basis for withholding part of a document from inspection, to the extent that portion is reasonably segregable, that part will be deleted and the remainder will be made available for inspection. Unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, records disclosed in part shall be marked or annotated, if technically feasible, to show the amount of information deleted, the location of the information deleted, and the exemption under which the deletion is made.

(6) In locating and recovering records responsive to an FOIA request, only those records within the Commission's possession and control as of the date a request is perfected shall be considered.

(g)(1) The custodian of the records will make every effort to act on the request within twenty business days after it is received and perfected by the FOIA Control Office. However, if a request for clarification has been made under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section or an issue is outstanding regarding the payment of fees for processing the FOIA request is pending under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the counting of time will start upon resolution of these requests. If it is not possible to locate the records and to determine whether they should be made available for inspection within twenty business days, the custodian may, upon timely notice to the requester, extend the time for action by up to ten business days, in any of the following circumstances:

(i) It is necessary to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request.

(ii) It is necessary to search for, collect and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or

(iii) It is necessary to consult with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more components of the Commission having substantial subject matter interest therein.

(2) The custodian of the records will notify the requester in writing of any extension of time exercised pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. The custodian of the records may also call the requester to extend the time provided a subsequent written confirmation is provided. If it is not possible to locate the records and make the determination within the extended period, the person or persons who made the request will be provided an opportunity to limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed within the extended time limit, or an opportunity to arrange an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request, and asked to consent to an extension or further extension. If the requester agrees to an extension, the custodian of the records will confirm the agreement in a letter or email specifying the length of the agreed-upon extension. If he or she does not agree to an extension, the request will be denied, on the grounds that the custodian has not been able to locate the records and/or to make the determination within the period for a ruling mandated by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. In that event, the custodian will provide the requester with the records, if any, that could be located and produced within the allotted time. The requester may file an application for review by the Commission.

(3) If the custodian of the records grants a request for inspection of records submitted to the Commission in confidence under ยง 0.457(d), ยง 0.459, or some other Commission rule or order, the custodian of the records will give the submitter written notice of the decision and of the submitter's right to seek review pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section.

(h)(1) Requesters who seek expedited processing of FOIA requests shall submit such requests, along with their FOIA requests, to the Managing Director, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Expedited processing shall be granted to a requester demonstrating a compelling need that is certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge and belief. Simply stating that the request should be expedited is not a sufficient basis to obtain expedited processing.
