
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart X - Spectrum Leasing
###### General Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 1.9020 Spectrum manager leasing arrangements.
######## Expiration, extension, or termination of a spectrum leasing arrangement.

(h)(1) Absent Commission termination or except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) or (h)(3) of this section, a spectrum leasing arrangement entered into pursuant to this section will expire on the termination date set forth in the spectrum leasing notification.

(2) A spectrum leasing arrangement may be extended beyond the initial term set forth in the spectrum leasing notification provided that the licensee notifies the Commission of the extension in advance of operation under the extended term and does so pursuant to the general notification procedures or immediate processing procedures set forth in this section, whichever is applicable. If the general notification procedures are applicable, the licensee must notify the Commission at least 21 days in advance of operation under the extended term.

(3) If a spectrum leasing arrangement is terminated earlier than the termination date set forth in the notification, either by the licensee or by the parties' mutual agreement, the licensee must file a notification with the Commission, no later than ten (10) days after the early termination, indicating the date of the termination. If the parties fail to put the spectrum leasing arrangement into effect, they must so notify the Commission consistent with the provisions of this section.

(4) The Commission will place information concerning an extension or an early termination of a spectrum leasing arrangement on public notice.
