
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### ยง 0.461 Requests for inspection of materials not routinely available for public inspection.
######## FOIA-Appeal@fcc.gov,

(i)(1) If a request for inspection of records submitted to the Commission in confidence under ยง 0.457(d), ยง 0.459, or another Commission rule or order is granted in whole or in part, an application for review may be filed by the person who submitted the records to the Commission, by a third party owner of the records or by a person with a personal privacy interest in the records, or by the person who filed the request for inspection of records within the ten business days after the date of the written ruling. The application for review shall be filed within ten business days after the date of the written ruling, shall be delivered or mailed to the General Counsel, or sent via email toand shall be served on the person who filed the request for inspection of records and any other parties to the proceeding. The person who filed the request for inspection of records may respond to the application for review within ten business days after it is filed.

(2) The first day to be counted in computing the time period for filing the application for review is the day after the date of the written ruling. An application for review is considered filed when it is received by the Commission. If an application for review is not filed within this period, the records will be produced for inspection.

(3) If an application for review is denied, the person filing the application for review will be notified in writing and advised of his or her rights. A denial of an application for review is not subject to a petition for reconsideration under ยง 1.106 of this chapter.

(4) If an application for review filed by the person who submitted, owns, or has a personal privacy interest in the records to the Commission is denied, or if the records are made available on review which were not initially made available, the person will be afforded ten business days from the date of the written ruling in which to move for a judicial stay of the Commission's action. The first day to be counted in computing the time period for seeking a judicial stay is the day after the date of the written ruling. If a motion for stay is not made within this period, the records will be produced for inspection.
