
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart X - Spectrum Leasing
###### General Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 1.9020 Spectrum manager leasing arrangements.
######## Community notification requirement for certain contraband interdiction systems.
######### Expiration, extension, or termination of spectrum leasing arrangement.,de facto

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section, a spectrum leasing arrangement entered into pursuant to this section will expire on the termination date set forth in the application. The Commission's consent to thetransfer leasing application includes consent to return the leased spectrum to the licensee at the end of the term of the spectrum leasing arrangement.

(2) A spectrum leasing arrangement may be extended beyond the initial term set forth in the spectrum leasing application pursuant to the applicable application procedures set forth in ยง 1.9030(e). Where there is pending before the Commission at the date of termination of the spectrum leasing arrangement a proper and timely application seeking to extend the arrangement, the parties may continue to operate under the original spectrum leasing arrangement without further action by the Commission until such time as the Commission shall make a final determination with respect to the application.

(3) If a spectrum leasing arrangement is terminated earlier than the termination date set forth in the notification, either by the licensee or by the parties' mutual agreement, the licensee must file a notification with the Commission, no later than ten (10) days after the early termination, indicating the date of the termination. If the parties fail to put the spectrum leasing arrangement into effect, they must so notify the Commission consistent with the provisions of this section.

(4) The Commission will place information concerning an extension or an early termination of a spectrum leasing arrangement on public notice.
