
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### ยง 0.465 Request for copies of materials which are available, or made available, for public inspection.

(a) The Commission may award a contract to a commercial duplication firm to make copies of Commission records and offer them for sale to the public. In addition to the charge for copying, the contractor may charge a search fee for locating and retrieving the requested documents from the Commission's files.

(b)(1) Records routinely available for public inspection under ยง 0.453 are available to the public through the Commission's Reference Information Center. Section 0.461 does not apply to such records.

(2) Audio or video recordings or transcripts of Commission proceedings are available to the public through the Commission's Reference Information Center. In some cases, only some of these formats may be available.

(c)(1) Contractual arrangements which have been entered into with commercial firms, as described in this section, do not in any way limit the right of the public to inspect Commission records or to retrieve whatever information may be desired. Coin-operated and debit card copy machines are available for use by the public.

(2) The Commission has reserved the right to make copies of its records for its own use or for the use of other agencies of the U.S. Government. When it serves the regulatory or financial interests of the U.S. Government, the Commission will make and furnish copies of its records free of charge. In other circumstances, however, if it should be necessary for the Commission to make and furnish copies of its records for the use of others, the fee for this service shall be ten cents ($0.10) per page or $5 per computer disk in addition to charges for staff time as provided in ยง 0.467. For copies prepared with other media, such as thumb drives or other portable electronic storage, the charge will be the actual direct cost including operator time. Requests for copying should be accompanied by a statement specifying the maximum copying fee the person making the request is prepared to pay. If the Commission estimates that copying charges are likely to exceed the greater of $25 or the amount which the requester has indicated that he/she is prepared to pay, then it shall notify the requester of the estimated amount of fees. Such a notice shall offer the requester the opportunity to confer with Commission personnel with the object of revising or clarifying the request.
