
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart Y - International Communications Filing System
###### ยง 1.10001 Definitions.
####### All other applications.

We consider all other applications officially filed once you file the application in the International Communications Filing System (ICFS) and applicable filing fees are received and approved by the FCC, unless the application is determined to be fee-exempt. We determine your official filing date based on one of the following situations:

(1)(i) You file your Satellite Space Station Application or your Application for Earth Stations to Access a Non-U.S. Satellite Not Currently Authorized to provide the Proposed Service in the Proposed Frequencies in the United States in ICFS.

(ii) Your official filing date is the date and time (to the millisecond) you file your application and receive a confirmation of filing and submission ID.

(2) You file all other applications in ICFS and then do one of the following:

(i)(A) Pay by online Automatic Clearing House (ACH) payment, online Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card payment, or wire transfer payment denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on a United States financial institution and made payable to the Federal Communications Commission (through ICFS)

(B) Your official filing date is the date your online payment is approved. (Note: You will receive a remittance ID and an authorization number if your transaction is successful).

(ii)(A) Determine your application type is fee-exempt or your application qualifies for exemption to charges as provided in this part

(B) Your official filing date is the date you file in ICFS and receive a confirmation of filing and submission ID.
