
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart BB - Disturbance of AM Broadcast Station Antenna Patterns
###### § 1.30004 Notice of tower construction or modification near AM stations.

(a) Proponents of proposed tower construction or significant modification to an existing tower near an AM station that are subject to the notification requirement in §§ 1.30002 and 1.30003 shall provide notice of the proposed tower construction or modification to the AM station at least 30 days prior to commencement of the planned tower construction or modification. Notice shall be provided to any AM station that is licensed or operating under Program Test Authority using the official licensee information and address listed in CDBS or any successor database. Notification to an AM station and any responses may be oral or written. If such notification and/or response is oral, the party providing such notification or response must supply written documentation of the communication and written documentation of the date of communication upon request of the other party to the communication or the Commission. Notification must include the relevant technical details of the proposed tower construction or modification. At a minimum, the notification should include the following:

(1) Proponent's name and address. Coordinates of the tower to be constructed or modified.

(2) Physical description of the planned structure.

(3) Results of the analysis showing the predicted effect on the AM pattern, if performed.

(b) Response to a notification should be made as quickly as possible, even if no technical problems are anticipated. Any response to a notification indicating a potential disturbance of the AM radiation pattern must specify the technical details and must be provided to the proponent within 30 days. If no response to notification is received within 30 days, the proponent may proceed with the proposed tower construction or modification.

(c) The 30-day response period is calculated from the date of receipt of the notification by the AM station. If notification is by mail, this date may be ascertained by:

(1) The return receipt on certified mail;

(2) The enclosure of a card to be dated and returned by the recipient; or

(3) A conservative estimate of the time required for the mail to reach its destination, in which case the estimated date when the 30-day period would expire shall be stated in the notification.

(d) An expedited notification period (less than 30 days) may be requested when deemed necessary by the proponent. The notification shall be identified as "expedited" and the requested response date shall be clearly indicated. The proponent may proceed with the proposed tower construction or modification prior to the expiration of the 30-day notification period only upon receipt of written concurrence from the affected AM station (or oral concurrence, with written confirmation to follow).

(e) To address immediate and urgent communications needs in the event of an emergency situation involving essential public services, public health, or public welfare, a tower proponent may erect a temporary new tower or make a temporary significant modification to an existing tower without prior notice to potentially affected nearby AM stations, provided that the tower proponent shall provide written notice to such AM stations within five days of the construction or modification of the tower and shall cooperate with such AM stations to promptly remedy any pattern distortions that arise as a consequence of such construction.
