
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart DD - Secure and Trusted Communications Networks
###### ยง 1.50004 Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Reimbursement Program.
####### Application review process.

(d)The Wireline Competition Bureau will review applications to determine whether the application is complete, whether the applicant is eligible for the Reimbursement Program, and to assess the reasonableness of the cost estimates provided by the applicant. The Wireline Competition Bureau shall approve or deny applications to receive a funding allocation from the Reimbursement Program within 90 days after the close of the applicable filing window. The Wireline Competition Bureau may extend the deadline for granting or denying applications for up to an additional 45 days if it determines that an excessive number of applications have been filed during the window and additional time is needed to review the applications.

(1) If the Wireline Competition Bureau determines that an application is materially deficient (including by lacking an adequate cost estimate or adequate supporting materials), the Wireline Competition Bureau shall provide the applicant a 15-day period to cure the defect before denying the application. If the cure period would extend beyond the deadline under this paragraph (d) for approving or denying the application, such deadline shall be extended through the end of the cure period.

(2) Denial of an application shall not preclude the applicant from submitting a new application for reimbursement in a subsequent filing window.
