
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### Wireline Competition Bureau
####### ยง 0.91 Functions of the Bureau.

The Wireline Competition Bureau advises and makes recommendations to the Commission, or acts for the Commission under delegated authority, in all matters pertaining to the regulation and licensing of communications common carriers and ancillary operations (other than matters pertaining exclusively to the regulation and licensing of wireless telecommunications services and facilities). The Bureau will, among other things:

(a) Develop and recommend policy goals, objectives, programs and plans for the Commission in rulemaking and adjudicatory matters concerning wireline telecommunications, drawing on relevant economic, technological, legislative, regulatory and judicial information and developments. Overall objectives include meeting the present and future wireline telecommunications needs of the Nation; fostering economic growth; ensuring choice, opportunity, and fairness in the development of wireline telecommunications; promoting economically efficient investment in wireline telecommunications infrastructure; promoting the development and widespread availability of wireline telecommunications services; and developing deregulatory initiatives where appropriate.

(b) Act on requests for interpretation or waiver of rules.

(c) Administer the provisions of the Communications Act requiring that the charges, practices, classifications, and regulations of communications common carriers providing interstate and foreign services are just and reasonable.

(d) Act on applications for service and facility authorizations, including applications from Bell operating companies for authority to provide in-region interLATA services and applications from wireline carriers for transfers of licenses and discontinuance of service.

(e) Develop and administer rules and policies relating to incumbent local exchange carrier accounting.

(f) Develop and administer recordkeeping and reporting requirements for telecommunications carriers, providers of interconnected VoIP service (as that term is defined in ยง 9.3 of this chapter), and providers of broadband services.

(g) Provide federal staff support for the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service and the Federal-State Joint Board on Jurisdictional Separations.

(h) Review the deployment of advanced telecommunications capability to ensure that such deployment is reasonable and timely, consistent with section 706 of the Act, and, where appropriate, recommend action to encourage such deployment.

(i) Provide economic, financial, and technical analyses of telecommunications markets and carrier performance.
