
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Appendix B to Part 1 - Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for the Collocation of Wireless Antennas
###### et seq.

Neither execution of this Agreement, nor implementation of or compliance with any term herein shall operate in any way as a waiver by any party hereto, or by any person or entity complying herewith or affected hereby, of a right to assert in any court of law any claim, argument or defense regarding the validity or interpretation of any provision of the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 300101) or its implementing regulations contained in 36 CFR part 800.

A. FCC licensees shall retain records of the placement of all licensed antennas, including collocations subject to this Nationwide Programmatic Agreement, consistent with FCC rules and procedures.

B. The Council will forward to the FCC and the relevant SHPO any written objections it receives from members of the public regarding a collocation activity or general compliance with the provisions of this Nationwide Programmatic Agreement within thirty (30) days following receipt of the written objection. The FCC will forward a copy of the written objection to the appropriate licensee or tower owner.

C. Any member of the public may notify the FCC of concerns it has regarding the application of this Programmatic Agreement within a State or with regard to the review of individual undertakings covered or excluded under the terms of this Agreement. Comments shall be directed to the FCC's Federal Preservation Officer. The FCC will consider public comments and, following consultation with the SHPO, potentially affected Tribes, or the Council, as appropriate, take appropriate actions. The FCC shall notify the objector of the outcome of its actions.

If any signatory to this Nationwide Collocation Programmatic Agreement believes that this Agreement should be amended, that signatory may at any time propose amendments, whereupon the signatories will consult to consider the amendments. This agreement may be amended only upon the written concurrence of the signatories.

A. If the FCC determines, or if NCSHPO determines on behalf of its members, that it or they cannot implement the terms of this Nationwide Collocation Programmatic Agreement, or if the FCC, NCSHPO or the Council determines that the Programmatic Agreement is not being properly implemented or that the spirit of Section 106 is not being met by the parties to this Programmatic Agreement, the FCC, NCSHPO or the Council may propose to the other signatories that the Programmatic Agreement be terminated.

B. The party proposing to terminate the Programmatic Agreement shall notify the other signatories in writing, explaining the reasons for the proposed termination and the particulars of the asserted improper implementation. Such party also shall afford the other signatories a reasonable period of time of no less than thirty (30) days to consult and remedy the problems resulting in improper implementation. Upon receipt of such notice, the parties shall consult with each other and notify and consult with other entities that either are involved in such implementation or would be substantially affected by termination of this Agreement, and seek alternatives to termination. Should the consultation fail to produce within the original remedy period or any extension a reasonable alternative to termination, a resolution of the stated problems, or convincing evidence of substantial implementation of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, this Programmatic Agreement shall be terminated thirty days after notice of termination is served on all parties and published in the.

C. In the event that the Programmatic Agreement is terminated, the FCC shall advise its licensees and tower owner and management companies of the termination and of the need to comply with any applicable Section 106 requirements on a case-by-case basis for collocation activities.

The signatories to this Nationwide Collocation Programmatic Agreement will meet annually on or about the anniversary of the effective date of the NPA to discuss the effectiveness of this Agreement and the NPA, including any issues related to improper implementation, and to discuss any potential amendments that would improve the effectiveness of this Agreement.

This Programmatic Agreement for collocation shall remain in force unless the Programmatic Agreement is terminated or superseded by a comprehensive Programmatic Agreement for wireless communications antennas.

Execution of this Nationwide Programmatic Agreement by the FCC, NCSHPO and the Council, and implementation of its terms, constitutes evidence that the FCC has afforded the Council an opportunity to comment on the collocation as described herein of antennas covered under the FCC's rules, and that the FCC has taken into account the effects of these collocations on historic properties in accordance with Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act and its implementing regulations, 36 CFR part 800.
