
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### § 0.470 Assessment of fees.
######## All other requesters.

(3)(i) The Commission shall charge requesters who do not fit into any of the categories above fees which cover the full, reasonable direct cost of searching for and duplicating records that are responsive to the request, pursuant to § 0.465 and § 0.467, except that the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge.

(ii) All other requesters shall not be assessed search fees if the Commission fails to comply with the time limits under § 0.461(g), except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section.

(iii) All other requesters may still be assessed search fees when the Commission fails to comply with the time limits under § 0.461(g) if the Commission determines that unusual circumstances apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, so long as the Commission has provided a timely written notice to the requester and has discussed with the requester (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request. Additionally, if a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, a failure to comply with a time limit under § 0.461(g) will be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.

(b)(1) The 100 page restriction on assessment of duplication fees in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section refers to 100 paper copies of a standard size, which will normally be 8&#x2033; x 11&#x2033; or 11&#x2033; x 14&#x2033;.

(2) When the agency reasonably believes that a requester or group of requesters is attempting to segregate a request into a series of separate individual requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the agency will aggregate any such requests and assess charges accordingly.

(c) When a requester believes he or she is entitled to a waiver pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the requester must include, in his or her original FOIA request, a statement explaining with specificity, the reasons demonstrating that he or she qualifies for a fee waiver. Included in this statement should be a certification that the information will not be used to further the commercial interests of the requester.
