
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### Public Information and Inspection of Records
####### § 0.470 Assessment of fees.
######## See

(d) If the Commission reasonably believes that a commercial interest exists, based on the information provided pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the requester shall be so notified and given an additional ten business days to provide further information to justify receiving a reduced fee.§ 0.467(e)(2).

(e)(1) Copying, search and review charges shall be waived or reduced by the General Counsel when "disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester." 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)(iii). Simply repeating the fee waiver language of section 552(a)(4)(A)(iii) is not a sufficient basis to obtain a fee waiver.

(2) The criteria used to determine whether disclosure is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government include:

(i) Whether the subject of the requested records concerns the operations or activities of the government;

(ii) Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute to an understanding of government operations or activities; and

(iii) Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to public understanding as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester or a narrow segment of interested persons.

(3) The criteria used to determine whether disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester include:

(i) Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure; and, if so

(ii) Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.

(4) This request for fee reduction or waiver must accompany the initial request for records and will be decided under the same procedures used for record requests.

(5) If no fees or de minimis fees would result from processing a FOIA request and a fee waiver or reduction has been sought, the General Counsel will not reach a determination on the waiver or reduction request.

(f) Whenever Commission staff determines that the total fee calculated under this section likely is less than the cost to collect and process the fee, no fee will be charged.

(g) Review of initial fee determinations under § 0.467 through § 0.470 and initial fee reduction or waiver determinations under paragraph (e) of this section may be sought under § 0.461(j).
