
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### General
####### § 0.5 General description of Commission organization and operations.
######## Principal staff units.

(a)The Commission is assisted in the performance of its responsibilities by its staff, which is divided into the following principal units:

(1) Office of Managing Director.

(2) Office of Engineering and Technology.

(3) Office of General Counsel.

(4) Office of Economics and Analytics.

(5) Office of Media Relations.

(6) Office of Legislative Affairs.

(7) Office of Inspector General.

(8) Office of Communications Business Opportunities.

(9) Office of Administrative Law Judges.

(10) Office of Workplace Diversity

(11) Office of International Affairs.

(12) Wireline Competition Bureau.

(13) Wireless Telecommunications Bureau.

(14) Space Bureau.

(15) Media Bureau.

(16) Enforcement Bureau.

(17) Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau.

(18) Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau.

(b) Staff responsibilities and functions. The organization and functions of these major staff units are described in detail in §§ 0.11 through 0.151. The defense and emergency preparedness functions of the Commission are set forth separately, beginning at § 0.181. For a complete description of staff functions, reference should be made to those provisions. (See also the U.S. Government Organization Manual, which contains a chart showing the Commission's organization, the names of the members and principal staff officers of the Commission, and other information concerning the Commission.)
