
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### Wireline Competition Bureau
####### § 0.91 Functions of the Bureau.
######## de novo

(j) Act on petitions forreview of decisions of the Administrative Council for Terminal Attachments regarding technical criteria pursuant to § 68.614.

(k) Interact with the public, local, state, and other governmental agencies and industry groups on wireline telecommunications regulation and related matters. Assist the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau on issues involving informal consumer complaints and other general inquiries by consumers.

(l) Review and coordinate orders, programs and actions initiated by other Bureaus and Offices in matters affecting wireline telecommunications to ensure consistency with overall Commission policy.

(m) Carry out the functions of the Commission under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, except as reserved to the Commission under § 0.291.

(n) Address audit findings relating to the schools and libraries support mechanism, subject to the overall authority of the Managing Director as the Commission's audit follow-up official.

(o) Coordinate with the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau on all matters affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, disaster management, and related issues.

(p) In coordination with the Office of Economics and Analytics and Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, serves as the Commission's principal policy and administrative staff resource with respect to the use of market-based mechanisms, including competitive bidding, to distribute universal service support. Develops, recommends and administers policies, programs, rules and procedures concerning the use of market-based mechanisms, including competitive bidding, to distribute universal service support.

(q) Issue orders revoking a common carrier's operating authority pursuant to section 214 of the Act, and issue orders to cease and desist such operations, in cases where the presiding officer has issued a certification order to the Commission that the carrier has waived its opportunity for hearing under that section.

(r) Review and resolve appeals of decisions by the STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework Governance Authority (as those terms are defined in § 64.6300 of this chapter) in accordance with § 64.6308 of this chapter.
