
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Allocation, Assignment, and Use of Radio Frequencies
###### ยง 2.104 International Table of Frequency Allocations.
####### Categories of services and allocations.

(d)(1) Primary and secondary services. Where, in a box of the International Table in ยง 2.106, a band is indicated as allocated to more than one service, either on a worldwide or Regional basis, such services are listed in the following order:

(i) Services the names of which are printed in "capitals" (example: FIXED); these are called "primary" services; and

(ii) Services the names of which are printed in "normal characters" (example: Mobile); these are called "secondary" services (see paragraph (d)(3) of this section).

(2) Additional remarks shall be printed in normal characters (example: MOBILE except aeronautical mobile).

(3) Stations of a secondary service:

(i) Shall not cause harmful interference to stations of primary services to which frequencies are already assigned or to which frequencies may be assigned at a later date;

(ii) Cannot claim protection from harmful interference from stations of a primary service to which frequencies are already assigned or may be assigned at a later date; and

(iii) Can claim protection, however, from harmful interference from stations of the same or other secondary service(s) to which frequencies may be assigned at a later date.

(4) Where a band is indicated in a footnote of the International Table as allocated to a service "on a secondary basis" in an area smaller than a Region, or in a particular country, this is a secondary service (see paragraph (d)(3) of this section).

(5) Where a band is indicated in a footnote of the International Table as allocated to a service "on a primary basis", in an area smaller than a Region, or in a particular country, this is a primary service only in that area or country.
