
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Allocation, Assignment, and Use of Radio Frequencies
###### ยง 2.104 International Table of Frequency Allocations.
####### Description of the International Table of Frequency Allocations.

(h)(1) The heading of the International Table includes three columns, each of which corresponds to one of the Regions (see paragraph (b) of this section). Where an allocation occupies the whole of the width of the Table or only one or two of the three columns, this is a worldwide allocation or a Regional allocation, respectively.

(2) The frequency band referred to in each allocation is indicated in the left-hand top corner of the part of the Table concerned.

(3) Within each of the categories specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, services are listed in alphabetical order according to the French language. The order of listing does not indicate relative priority within each category.

(4) In the case where there is a parenthetical addition to an allocation in the International Table, that service allocation is restricted to the type of operation so indicated.

(5) The footnote references which appear in the International Table below the allocated service or services apply to more than one of the allocated services, or to the whole of the allocation concerned.

(6) The footnote references which appear to the right of the name of a service are applicable only to that particular service.

(7) In certain cases, the names of countries appearing in the footnotes have been simplified in order to shorten the text.

(8) The international footnotes shown in the International Table are applicable only to the relationships between the United States and other countries (unless a reference to an international footnote has been added to the United States Table of Frequency Allocations).
