
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Allocation, Assignment, and Use of Radio Frequencies
###### ยง 2.105 United States Table of Frequency Allocations.
####### Format of the United States Table.

(d)(1) The frequency band referred to in each allocation, column 4 for Federal operations and column 5 for non-Federal operations, is indicated in the left-hand top corner of the column. If there is no service or footnote indicated for a frequency band in column 4, then the Federal sector has no access to that band except as provided for by ยง 2.103. If there is no service or footnote indicated for a frequency band in column 5, then the non-Federal sector has no access to that band except as provided for by ยง 2.102.

(2) When the type of service(s) permitted and any applicable footnote(s) are the same for a frequency band in the Federal Table and the non-Federal Table, columns 4 and 5 are merged, indicating that the frequency band is shared between the Federal and non-Federal sectors under the same conditions.

(3) The Federal Table, given in column 4, is included for informational purposes only.

(4) In the case where there is a parenthetical addition to an allocation in the United States Table [example: FIXED-SATELLITE (space-to-earth)], that service allocation is restricted to the type of operation so indicated.

(5) The following symbols are used to designate footnotes in the United States Table:

(i) Any footnote number consisting of "5." followed by one or more digits,e.g., 5.53, denotes an international footnote. Where an international footnote is applicable, without modification, to both Federal and non-Federal operations, the Commission places the footnote in both the Federal Table and the non-Federal Table (columns 4 and 5) and the international footnote is binding on both Federal users and non-Federal licensees. If, however, an international footnote pertains to a service allocated only for Federal or non-Federal use, the international footnote will be placed only in the affected Table. For example, footnote 5.142 pertains only to the amateur service, and thus, footnote 5.142 is shown only in the non-Federal Table.

(ii) Any footnote consisting of the letters "US" followed by one or more digits,e.g., US7, denotes a stipulation affecting both Federal and non-Federal operations. United States footnotes appear in both the Federal Table and the non-Federal Table.

(iii) Any footnote consisting of the letters "NG" followed by one or more digits,e.g., NG2, denotes a stipulation applicable only to non-Federal operations. Non-Federal footnotes appear solely in the non-Federal Table (column 5).

(iv) Any footnote consisting of the letters "G" followed by one or more digits,e.g., G2, denotes a stipulation applicable only to Federal operations. Federal footnotes appear solely in the Federal Table (column 4).

(6) The coordinates of latitude and longitude that are listed in United States, Federal, and non-Federal footnotes are referenced to the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD 83).
