
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Emissions
###### ยง 2.202 Bandwidths.
####### Necessary bandwidth.

(b)For a given class of emission, the minimum value of the occupied bandwidth sufficient to ensure the transmission of information at the rate and with the quality required for the system employed, under specified conditions. Emissions useful for the good functioning of the receiving equipment as, for example, the emission corresponding to the carrier of reduced carrier systems, shall be included in the necessary bandwidth.

(1) The necessary bandwidth shall be expressed by three numerals and one letter. The letter occupies the position of the decimal point and represents the unit of bandwidth. The first character shall be neither zero nor K, M or G.

(2) Necessary bandwidths:

(3) Examples:

(c) The necessary bandwidth may be determined by one of the following methods:

(1) Use of the formulas included in the table, in paragraph (g) of this section, which also gives examples of necessary bandwidths and designation of corresponding emissions;

(2) For frequency modulated radio systems which have a substantially linear relationship between the value of input voltage to the modulator and the resulting frequency deviation of the carrier and which carry either single sideband suppressed carrier frequency division multiplex speech channels or television, computation in accordance with provisions of paragraph (f) of this section and formulas and methods indicated in the table, in paragraph (g) of this section;

(3) Computation in accordance with Recommendations of the International Radio Consultative Committee (C.C.I.R.);

(4) Measurement in cases not covered by paragraph (c) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(d) The value so determined should be used when the full designation of an emission is required. However, the necessary bandwidth so determined is not the only characteristic of an emission to be considered in evaluating the interference that may be caused by that emission.

(e) In the formulation of the table in paragraph (g) of this section, the following terms are employed:
