
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart A - Organization
###### Enforcement Bureau
####### § 0.111 Functions of the Bureau.

(a) Serve as the primary Commission entity responsible for enforcement of the Communications Act and other communications statutes, the Commission's rules, Commission orders and Commission authorizations, other than matters that are addressed in the context of a pending application for a license or other authorization or in the context of administration, including post-grant administration, of a licensing or other authorization or registration program.

(1) Resolve complaints, including complaints filed under section 208 of the Communications Act, regarding acts or omissions of common carriers (wireline, wireless and international).

(2) Resolve complaints regarding acts or omissions of non-common carriers subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under Title II of the Communications Act and related provisions, including complaints against aggregators under section 226 of the Communications Act and against entities subject to the requirements of section 227 of the Communications Act.

(3) Resolve formal complaints regarding accessibility to communications services and equipment for persons with disabilities, including complaints filed pursuant to sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act.

(4) Resolve complaints regarding radiofrequency interference and complaints regarding radiofrequency equipment and devices, including complaints of violations of sections 302 and 333 of the Communications Act.

(5) Resolve complaints regarding compliance with the Commission's Emergency Alert System rules.

(6) Resolve complaints regarding the lighting and marking of radio transmitting towers under section 303(q) of the Communications Act.

(7) Resolve complaints regarding compliance with statutory and regulatory provisions regarding indecent communications subject to the Commission's jurisdiction.

(8) Resolve complaints regarding the broadcast and cable television children's television programming commercial limits contained in section 102 of the Children's Television Act.

(9) Resolve complaints regarding unauthorized construction and operation of communications facilities, including complaints of violations of section 301 of the Communications Act.

(10) Resolve complaints regarding false distress signals under section 325(a) of the Communications Act.

(11) Resolves other complaints against Title III licensees and permittees (Title III of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended), including complaints under § 20.12(e) of this chapter, except that the Media Bureau has primary responsibility for complaints regarding children's television programming requirements, and for political and related programming matters involving broadcasters, cable operators and other multichannel video programming distributors. The relevant licensing Bureau has primary responsibility for complaints involving tower siting and the Commission's environmental rules. The Media Bureau has primary responsibility for complaints regarding compliance with conditions imposed on transfers of control and assignments of licenses of Cable Television Relay Service authorizations.

(12) Resolve complaints regarding pole attachments filed under section 224 of the Communications Act.

(13) Resolve complaints regarding multichannel video and cable television service under part 76 of this chapter, except that the Media Bureau has primary responsibility for complaints regarding the following: Subpart A (general), with the exception of § 76.11; subpart B (Registration Statements); subpart C (Cable Franchise Applications); subpart D (carriage of television broadcast signals); subpart F (nonduplication protection and syndicated exclusivity); subpart G, §§ 76.205 and 76.206 (political broadcasting); subpart I ([Reserved]); subpart J (ownership); subpart L (cable television access); subpart N, § 76.944 (basic cable rate appeals), and §§ 76.970, 76.971, and 76.977 (cable leased access rates); subpart O (competitive access to cable programming); subpart P (competitive availability of navigation devices); subpart Q (regulation of carriage agreements); subpart S (Open Video Systems); and subparts T, U, and V to the extent related to the matters listed in this paragraph (a)(13).

(14) Resolve universal service suspension and debarment proceedings pursuant to § 54.521 of this chapter.
