
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Marketing of Radio-frequency Devices
###### ยง 2.803 Marketing of radio frequency devices prior to equipment authorization.
####### 1

(D) Notwithstanding ยง 2.926, radiofrequency devices marketed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section may include the expected FCC ID if obscured by the temporary label described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C)() of this section or, in the case of electronic labeling, if the expected FCC ID cannot be viewed prior to authorization.

(E) All radiofrequency devices marketed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must remain under legal ownership of the first party to initiate a conditional sales contract.

(F) The first party to initiate a conditional sales contract or any party that physically transfers devices under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must maintain, for a period of sixty (60) months, records of each conditional sale contract. Such records must identify the device name and product identifier, the quantity conditionally sold, the date on which the device authorization was sought, the expected FCC ID number, and the identity of the conditional buyer, including contact information. The first party to initiate a conditional sales contract or any party that physically transfers devices under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must provide these records upon the request of Commission personnel.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) (A) A radio frequency device may be advertised or displayed, (e.g., at a trade show or exhibition) if accompanied by a conspicuous notice containing this language:

(B) If the device being displayed is a prototype of a device that has been properly authorized and the prototype, itself, is not authorized due to differences between the prototype and the authorized device, this language may be used instead: Prototype. Not for Sale.

(iv) An evaluation kit as defined in ยง 2.1 may be sold provided that:

(A) Sales are limited to product developers, software developers, and system integrators;

(B) The following notice is included with the kit:

FCC NOTICE: This kit is designed to allow:

(1) Product developers to evaluate electronic components, circuitry, or software associated with the kit to determine whether to incorporate such items in a finished product and

(2) Software developers to write software applications for use with the end product. This kit is not a finished product and when assembled may not be resold or otherwise marketed unless all required FCC equipment authorizations are first obtained. Operation is subject to the condition that this product not cause harmful interference to licensed radio stations and that this product accept harmful interference. Unless the assembled kit is designed to operate under part 15, part 18 or part 95 of this chapter, the operator of the kit must operate under the authority of an FCC license holder or must secure an experimental authorization under part 5 of this chapter.

(C) The kit is labeled with the following legend: For evaluation only; not FCC approved for resale; and

(D) Any radiofrequency transmitter employed as part of an evaluation kit shall be designed to comply with all applicable FCC technical rules, including frequency use, spurious and out-of-band emission limits, and maximum power or field strength ratings applicable to final products that would employ the components or circuitry to be evaluated.
