
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Equipment Authorization Procedures
###### Conditions Attendant to an Equipment Authorization
####### ยง 2.935 Electronic labeling of radiofrequency devices.

(a) Any radiofrequency device equipped with an integrated electronic display screen, or a radiofrequency device without an integrated screen that can only operate in conjunction with a device that has an electronic display screen, may display on the electronic display the FCC Identifier, any warning statements, or other information that the Commission's rules would otherwise require to be shown on a physical label attached to the device.

(b) Devices displaying their FCC Identifier, warning statements, or other information electronically must make this information readily accessible on the electronic display. Users must be provided with prominent instructions on how to access the information in the operating instructions, inserts in packaging material, or other easily accessible format at the time of purchase. The access instructions may also be provided via the product-related Web site, if such a Web site exists; the packaging material must provide specific instructions on how to locate the Web site information, and a copy of these instructions must be included in the application for equipment certification.

(c) Devices displaying their FCC Identifier, warning statements, or other information electronically must permit access to the information without requiring special codes, accessories or permissions and the access to this information must not require more than three steps from the device setting menu. The number of steps does not include those steps for use of screen locks, passcodes or similar security protection designed to control overall device access.

(d) The electronically displayed FCC Identifier, warning statements, or other information must be displayed electronically in a manner that is clearly legible without the aid of magnification;

(e) The necessary label information must be programmed by the responsible party and must be secured in such a manner that third-parties cannot modify it.

(f) Devices displaying their FCC Identifier, warning statements, or other information electronically must also be labeled, either on the device or its packaging, with the FCC Identifier or other information (such as a model number and identification of a Web page that hosts the relevant regulatory information) that permits the devices to be identified at the time of importation, marketing, and sales as complying with the FCC's equipment authorization requirements. Devices can be labeled with a stick-on label, printing on the packaging, a label on a protective bag, or by similar means. Any removable label shall be of a type intended to survive normal shipping and handling and must only be removed by the customer after purchase.
