
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Equipment Authorization Procedures
###### Conditions Attendant to an Equipment Authorization
####### § 2.938 Retention of records.

(a) For equipment subject to the equipment authorization procedures in this part, the responsible party shall maintain the records listed as follows:

(1) A record of the original design drawings and specifications and all changes that have been made that may affect compliance with the standards and the requirements of § 2.931.

(2) A record of the procedures used for production inspection and testing to ensure conformance with the standards and the requirements of § 2.931.

(3) A record of the test results that demonstrate compliance with the appropriate regulations in this chapter.

(b) For equipment subject to Supplier's Declaration of Conformity, the responsible party shall, in addition to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, maintain the following records:

(1) Measurements made on an appropriate test site that demonstrates compliance with the applicable regulations in this chapter. The record shall:

(i) Indicate the actual date all testing was performed;

(ii) State the name of the test laboratory, company, or individual performing the testing. The Commission may request additional information regarding the test site, the test equipment or the qualifications of the company or individual performing the tests;

(iii) Contain a description of how the device was actually tested, identifying the measurement procedure and test equipment that was used;

(iv) Contain a description of the equipment under test (EUT) and support equipment connected to, or installed within, the EUT;

(v) Identify the EUT and support equipment by trade name and model number and, if appropriate, by FCC Identifier and serial number;

(vi) Indicate the types and lengths of connecting cables used and how they were arranged or moved during testing;

(vii) Contain at least two drawings or photographs showing the test set-up for the highest line conducted emission and showing the test set-up for the highest radiated emission. These drawings or photographs must show enough detail to confirm other information contained in the test report. Any photographs used must clearly show the test configuration used;

(viii) List all modifications, if any, made to the EUT by the testing company or individual to achieve compliance with the regulations in this chapter;

(ix) Include all of the data required to show compliance with the appropriate regulations in this chapter;

(x) Contain, on the test report, the signature of the individual responsible for testing the product along with the name and signature of an official of the responsible party, as designated in § 2.909; and

(xi) A copy of the compliance information, as described in § 2.1077, required to be provided with the equipment.

(2) A written and signed certification that, as of the date of first importation or marketing of the equipment, the equipment for which the responsible party maintains Supplier's Declaration of Conformity is not produced by any entity identified on the Covered List, established pursuant to § 1.50002 of this chapter, as producing covered communications equipment.

(c) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall also apply to a manufacturer of equipment produced under an agreement with the original responsible party. The retention of the records by the manufacturer under these circumstances shall satisfy the grantee's responsibility under paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) For equipment subject to more than one equipment authorization procedure, the responsible party must retain the records required under all applicable provisions of this section.

(e) For equipment subject to rules that include a transition period, the records must indicate the particular transition provisions that were in effect when the equipment was determined to be compliant.

(f) For equipment subject to certification, records shall be retained for a one year period after the marketing of the associated equipment has been permanently discontinued, or until the conclusion of an investigation or a proceeding if the responsible party (or, under paragraph (c) of this section, the manufacturer) is officially notified that an investigation or any other administrative proceeding involving its equipment has been instituted. For all other records kept pursuant to this section, a two-year period shall apply.

(g) If radio frequency equipment is modified by any party other than the original responsible party, and that party is not working under the authorization of the original responsible party, the party performing the modifications is not required to obtain the original design drawings specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the party performing the modifications must maintain records showing the changes made to the equipment along with the records required in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. A new equipment authorization may also be required.
