
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Equipment Authorization Procedures
###### Conditions Attendant to an Equipment Authorization
####### § 2.939 Revocation or withdrawal of equipment authorization.

(a) The Commission may revoke any equipment authorization:

(1) For false statements or representations made either in the application or in materials or response submitted in connection therewith or in records required to be kept by § 2.938.

(2) If upon subsequent inspection or operation it is determined that the equipment does not conform to the pertinent technical requirements or to the representations made in the original application.

(3) If it is determined that changes have been made in the equipment other than those authorized by the rules or otherwise expressly authorized by the Commission.

(4) Because of conditions coming to the attention of the Commission which would warrant it in refusing to grant an original application.

(b) Revocation of an equipment authorization shall be made in the same manner as revocation of radio station licenses, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) The Commission may withdraw any equipment authorization in the event of changes in its technical standards. The procedure to be followed will be set forth in the order promulgating such new technical standards (after appropriate rulemaking proceedings) and will provide a suitable amortization period for equipment in hands of users and in the manufacturing process.

(d) Notwithstanding other provisions of § 2.939, to the extent a false statement or representation is made in the equipment certification application (see §§ 2.911(d)(5)-(7), 2.932, 2.1033, and 2.1043), or in materials or responses submitted in connection therewith, that the equipment in the subject application is not prohibited from receiving an equipment authorization pursuant to § 2.903, and the equipment certification or modification was granted, if the Commission subsequently determines that the equipment is covered communications equipment, the Commission will revoke such authorization.

(1) If the Office of Engineering and Technology and the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau determine that particular authorized equipment is covered communications equipment, and that the certification application for that equipment contained a false statement or representation that the equipment was not covered communications equipment, they will provide written notice to the grantee that a revocation proceeding is being initiated and the grounds under consideration for such revocation.

(2) The grantee will have 10 days in which to respond in writing to the reasons cited for initiating the revocation proceeding. The Office of Engineering and Technology and the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau will then review the submissions, request additional information as may be appropriate, and make their determination as to whether to revoke the authorization, providing the reasons for such decision.
