
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Equipment Authorization Procedures
###### Conditions Attendant to an Equipment Authorization
####### § 2.950 Transition periods.

(a) As of July 13, 2015 the Commission will no longer accept applications for Commission issued grants of equipment certification.

(b) Prior to September 15, 2015 a TCB shall be accredited to either ISO/IEC Guide 65 or ISO/IEC 17065 (incorporated by reference, see § 2.910). On or after September 15, 2015 a TCB shall be accredited to ISO/IEC 17065.

(c) Prior to September 15, 2015 an organization accrediting the prospective telecommunication certification body shall be capable of meeting the requirements and conditions of ISO/IEC Guide 61 or ISO/IEC 17011 (incorporated by reference, see § 2.910). On or after September 15, 2015 an organization accrediting the prospective telecommunication certification body shall be capable of meeting the requirements and conditions of ISO/IEC 17011.

(d) Prior to September 15, 2015 an organization accrediting the prospective accredited testing laboratory shall be capable of meeting the requirements and conditions of ISO/IEC Guide 58 or ISO/IEC 17011. On or after September 15, 2015 an organization accrediting the prospective accredited testing laboratory shall be capable of meeting the requirements and conditions of ISO/IEC 17011.

(e) The Commission will no longer accept applications for § 2.948 test site listing as of July 13, 2015. Laboratories that are listed by the Commission under the § 2.948 process will remain listed until the sooner of their expiration date or through July 12, 2017 and may continue to submit test data in support of certification applications through October 12, 2017. Laboratories with an expiration date before July 13, 2017 may request the Commission to extend their expiration date through July 12, 2017.

(f) Measurement facilities used to make radiated emission measurements from 1 GHz to 40 GHz shall comply with the site validation option of ANSI C63.4-2014, (clause 5.5.1a)1)) which references CISPR 16-1-4:2010-04 (incorporated by reference, see § 2.910) by July 13, 2018.

(g) Measurements for intentional radiators subject to part 15 of this chapter are to be made using the procedures in ANSI C63.10-2013 (incorporated by reference, see § 2.910) by July 13, 2016.

(h) Measurements for unintentional radiators are to be made using the procedures in ANSI C63.4, except clauses 4.5.3, 4.6, 6.2.13, 8.2.2, 9, and 13 (incorporated by reference, see § 2.910), by July 13, 2016.

(i) Radio frequency devices that would have been considered eligible for authorization under either the verification or Declaration of Conformity procedures that were in effect prior to November 2, 2017 may continue to be authorized until November 2, 2018 under the appropriate procedure in accordance with the requirements that were in effect immediately prior to November 2, 2017.

(j) All radio frequency devices that were authorized under the verification or Declaration of Conformity procedures prior to November 2, 2017 must continue to meet all requirements associated with the applicable procedure that were in effect immediately prior to November 2, 2017. If any changes are made to such devices after November 2, 2018, the requirements associated with the Supplier's Declaration of Conformity will apply.
