
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Equipment Authorization Procedures
###### Supplier's Declaration of Conformity
####### ยง 2.1077 Compliance information.
######## e.g.,

(1) Identification of the assembled product,name and model number.

(2) Identification of the modular components used in the assembly. A modular component authorized under Supplier's Declaration of Conformity shall be identified as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A modular component authorized under a grant of certification shall be identified by name and model number (if applicable) along with the FCC Identifier number.

(3) A statement that the product complies with part 15 of this chapter.

(4) The identification, by name, address and telephone number or Internet contact information, of the responsible party who assembled the product from modular components, as defined in ยง 2.909. The responsible party for Supplier's Declaration of Conformity must be located within the United States.

(5) Copies of the compliance information statements for each modular component used in the system that is authorized under Supplier's Declaration of Conformity.

(c) The compliance information statement shall be included in the user's manual or as a separate sheet. In cases where the manual is provided only in a form other than paper, such as on a computer disk or over the Internet, the information required by this section may be included in the manual in that alternative form, provided the user can reasonably be expected to have the capability to access information in that form. The information may be provided electronically as permitted in ยง 2.935.
