
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - FREQUENCY ALLOCATIONS AND RADIO TREATY MATTERS; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Importation of Devices Capable of Causing Harmful Interference
###### § 2.1204 Import conditions.

(a) Radio frequency devices may be imported only if one or more of these conditions are met:

(1) The radio frequency device has been issued an equipment authorization by the FCC.

(2) The radio frequency device is not required to have an equipment authorization and the device complies with FCC technical administrative regulations.

(3) The radio frequency device is being imported in quantities of 4,000 or fewer units for testing and evaluation to determine compliance with the FCC Rules and Regulations, product development, or suitability for marketing. The devices will not be offered for sale or marketed.

(i) Prior to importation of a greater number of units than shown in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, written approval must be obtained from the Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology, FCC; and

(ii) Distinctly different models of a device and separate generations of a particular model under development are considered to be separate devices.

(4) The radio frequency device is being imported in limited quantities for demonstration at industry trade shows and the device will not be offered for sale or marketed. The phrase "limited quantities," in this context means:

(i) 400 or fewer devices.

(ii) Prior to importation of a greater number of units than shown above, written approval must be obtained from the Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology, FCC.

(iii) Distinctly different models of a product and separate generations of a particular model under development are considered to be separate devices.

(iv) Distinctly different models of a product and separate generations of a particular model under development are considered to be separate devices.

(5) The radio frequency device is being imported solely for export. The device will not be marketed or offered for sale in the U.S., except:

(i) If the device is a foreign standard cellular phone solely capable of functioning outside the U.S.

(ii) If the device is a multi-mode wireless handset that has been certified under the Commission's rules and a component (or components) of the handset is a foreign standard cellular phone solely capable of functioning outside the U.S.

(6) The radio frequency device is being imported for use exclusively by the U.S. Government.

(7) Three or fewer radio frequency devices are being imported for the individual's personal use and are not intended for sale. Unless exempted otherwise in this chapter, the permitted devices must be from one or more of the following categories:

(i) Unintentional radiator as defined in part 15 of this chapter which may include radio receivers, computers or other Class B digital devices in part 15 of this chapter.

(ii) Consumer ISM equipment as defined in part 18 of this chapter.

(iii) Intentional radiators subject to part 15 rules only if they can be used in client modes as specified in § 15.202 of this chapter.

(iv) Transmitters operating under rules which require a station license as subscribers permitted under § 1.903 of this chapter and operated under the authority of an operator license issued by the Commission.

(8) The radio frequency device is being imported for repair and will not be offered for sale or marketed.

(9) The radio frequency device is a medical implant transmitter inserted in a person or a medical body-worn transmitter as defined in part 95, granted entry into the United States or is a control transmitter associated with such an implanted or body-worn transmitter, provided, however that the transmitters covered by this provision otherwise comply with the technical requirements applicable to transmitters authorized to operate in the Medical Device Radiocommunication Service (MedRadio) under part 95 of this chapter. Such transmitters are permitted to be imported without the issuance of a grant of equipment authorization only for the personal use of the person in whom the medical implant transmitter has been inserted or on whom the medical body-worn transmitter is applied.

(10) Three or fewer portable earth-station transceivers, as defined in § 25.129 of this chapter, are being imported by a traveler as personal effects and will not be offered for sale or lease in the United States.

(11) The radio frequency device is subject to Certification under § 2.907 and is being imported in quantities of 12,000 or fewer units for pre-sale activity. For purposes of this paragraph, quantities are determined by the number of devices with the same FCC ID.

(i) The Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology, may approve importation of a greater number of units in a manner otherwise consistent with paragraph (a)(11) of this section in response to a specific request.

(ii) Pre-sale activity includes packaging and transferring physical possession of devices to distribution centers and retailers. Pre-sale activity does not include display or demonstration of devices. Except as provided in § 2.803(c)(2)(i), the devices must not be delivered to end users, displayed, operated, or sold until equipment Certification under § 2.907 has been obtained.

(iii) Radiofrequency devices can only be imported under the exception of paragraph (a)(11) of this section after compliance testing by an FCC-recognized accredited testing laboratory is completed and an application for certification is submitted to an FCC-recognized Telecommunication Certification Body pursuant to § 2.911 of this part;

(iv) Each device, or its packaging, imported under this exception must prominently display a visible temporary removable label stating: "This device cannot be delivered to end users, displayed, or operated until the device receives certification from the FCC. Under penalty of law, this label must not be removed prior to receiving an FCC certification grant."

(v) Notwithstanding § 2.926, radiofrequency devices imported pursuant to paragraph (a)(11) of this section may include the expected FCC ID if obscured by the temporary label described in paragraph (a)(11)(iv) this section or, in the case of electronic labeling, if it cannot be viewed prior to authorization.

(vi) The radiofrequency devices must remain under legal ownership of the device manufacturer, developer, importer or ultimate consignee, or their designated customs broker, and only transferring physical possession of the devices for pre-sale activity as defined in paragraph (a)(11) of this section is permitted prior to Grant of Certification under § 2.907. The device manufacturer, developer, importer or ultimate consignee, or their designated customs broker must have processes in place to retrieve the equipment in the event that the equipment is not successfully certified and must complete such retrieval immediately after a determination is made that certification cannot be successfully completed.

(vii) The device manufacturer, developer, importer or ultimate consignee, or their designated customs broker must maintain, for a period of sixty (60) months, records identifying the recipient of devices imported for pre-sale activities. Such records must identify the device name and product identifier, the quantity shipped, the date on which the device authorization was sought, the expected FCC ID number, and the identity of the recipient, including contact information. The device manufacturer, developer, importer or ultimate consignee, or their designated customs broker must provide records maintained under this provision upon the request of Commission personnel.

(b) The ultimate consignee must be able to document compliance with the selected import condition and the basis for determining the import condition applied.
