
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 5 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### § 5.63 Supplemental statements required.

Applicants must provide the information set forth on the applicable form as specified in § 5.59. In addition, applicants must provide supplemental information as described below:

(a) If installation and/or operation of the equipment may significantly impact the environment (see § 1.1307 of this chapter) an environmental assessment as defined in § 1.1311 of this chapter must be submitted with the application.

(b) If an applicant requests non-disclosure of proprietary information, requests shall follow the procedures for submission set forth in § 0.459 of this chapter.

(c) For conventional and broadcast experimental radio licenses, each application must include:

(1) A narrative statement describing in detail the program of research and experimentation proposed, the specific objectives sought to be accomplished; and how the program of experimentation has a reasonable promise of contribution to the development, extension, or expansion, or use of the radio art, or is along lines not already investigated.

(2) If the authorization is to be used for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of a contract with an agency of the United States Government, a narrative statement describing the project, the name of the contracting agency, and the contract number.

(3) If the authorization is to be used for the sole purpose of developing equipment for exportation to be employed by stations under the jurisdiction of a foreign government, a narrative statement describing the project, any associated contract number, and the name of the foreign government concerned.

(4) If the authorization is to be used with a satellite system, a narrative statement containing the information required in § 5.64.

(d) For program experimental radio licenses, each application must include:

(1) A narrative statement describing how the applicant meets the eligibility criteria set forth in subpart E of this part.

(2) If the authorization is to be used for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of a contract with an agency of the United States Government, a narrative statement describing the project, the name of the contracting agency, and the contract number.

(3) If the authorization is to be used for the sole purpose of developing equipment for exportation to be employed by stations under the jurisdiction of a foreign government, a narrative statement describing the project, any associated contract number, and the name of the foreign government concerned.

(e) For medical testing and compliance testing experimental radio licenses, each application must include a narrative statement describing how the applicant meets the eligibility criteria set forth in §§ 5.402(a) and 5.502 respectively.
