
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 5 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO SERVICE
##### Subpart H - Product Development and Market Trials
###### ยง 5.602 Market trials.

Unless otherwise stated in the instrument of authorization, experimental radio licenses granted for the purpose of market trials pursuant to ยง 5.3(k) are subject to the following conditions:

(a) Marketing of devices (as defined in ยง 2.803 of this chapter) and provision of services for hire is permitted before the radio frequency device has been authorized by the Commission, subject to the ownership provisions in paragraph (d) of this section and provided that the device will be operated in compliance with existing Commission rules, waivers of such rules that are in effect at the time of operation, or rules that have been adopted by the Commission but that have not yet become effective.

(b) The operation of all radio frequency devices that are included in a market trial must be authorized under this rule section, including those devices that are designed to operate under parts 15, 18, or 95 of this chapter.

(c) If more than one entity will be responsible for conducting the same market trial e.g., manufacturer and service provider, each entity will be authorized under a separate license. If more than one licensee is authorized, the licensees or the Commission shall designate one as the responsible party for the trial.

(d) All transmitting and/or receiving equipment used in the study shall be owned by the experimental licensees. Marketing of devices is only permitted as follows:

(1) The licensees may sell equipment to each other, e.g., manufacturer to service provider,

(2) The licensees may lease equipment to trial participants for purposes of the study, and

(3) The number of devices to be marketed shall be the minimum quantity of devices necessary to conduct the market trial as approved by the Commission.

(e) Licensees are required to ensure that trial devices are either rendered inoperable or retrieved by them from trial participants at the conclusion of the trial. Licensees are required to notify trial participants in advance that operation of the trial device is subject to this condition.

(f) The size and scope of the experiment are subject to limitations as the Commission shall establish on a case-by-case basis. If the Commission subsequently determines that a market trial is not so limited, the trial shall be immediately terminated.

(g) Broadcast experimental station applicants and licensees must also meet the requirements of ยง 5.205.
