
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### Part 8 - INTERNET FREEDOM
##### ยง 8.1 Transparency.

(a) Any person providing broadband internet access service shall publicly disclose accurate information regarding the network management practices, performance characteristics, and commercial terms of its broadband internet access services sufficient to enable consumers to make informed choices regarding the purchase and use of such services and entrepreneurs and other small businesses to develop, market, and maintain internet offerings. Such disclosure shall be made via a publicly available, easily accessible website or through transmittal to the Commission.

(1) Any person providing broadband internet access service shall create and display an accurate broadband consumer label for each stand-alone broadband internet access service it currently offers for purchase. The label must be prominently displayed, publicly available, and easily accessible to consumers, including consumers with disabilities, at the point of sale with the content and in the format prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission (Commission) in figure 1 to this paragraph (a)(1).

(2) Broadband internet access service providers shall display the label required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section at each point of sale. "Point of sale" is defined to mean a provider's website and any alternate sales channels through which the provider's broadband internet access service is sold, including a provider-owned retail location, third-party retail location, and over the phone. For labels displayed on provider websites, the label must be displayed in close proximity to the associated advertised service plan. "Point of sale" also means the time a consumer begins investigating and comparing broadband service offerings available to them at their location. "Point of sale" for purposes of the E-Rate and Rural Health Care programs is defined as the time a service provider submits its bid to a program participant. Providers participating in the E-Rate and Rural Health Care programs must provide their labels to program participants when they submit their bids to participants. Broadband internet access service providers that offer online account portals to their customers shall also make each customer's label easily accessible to the customer in such portals.

(3) The content of the label required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be displayed on the broadband internet access service provider's website in a machine-readable format. Broadband internet access service providers must provide the information in any label separately in a spreadsheet file format on their websites via a dedicated uniform resource locator (URL) that contains all of their labels. Providers must publicize the URL with the label data in the transparency disclosures required under this paragraph (a).

(4) The label required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be provided in English and in any other languages in which the broadband internet access service provider markets its services in the United States.

(5) Broadband internet access service providers shall maintain an archive of all labels required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a period of no less than two years from the time the service plan reflected in the label is no longer available for purchase by a new subscriber and the provider has removed the label from its website or alternate sales channels. Providers must provide any archived label to the Commission, upon request, within thirty days. Providers must provide an archived label, upon request and within thirty days, to an existing customer whose service plan is associated with the particular label. A provider is not required to display a label once the associated service plan is no longer offered to new subscribers.

(6) Broadband consumer label requirements and the transparency rule in paragraph (a) of this section are subject to enforcement using the same processes and procedures. The label required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not a safe harbor from the transparency rule or any other requirements established by the Commission.

(7) Paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section may contain an information-collection and/or recordkeeping requirement. Compliance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section will not be required until this paragraph (a)(7) is removed or contains a compliance date, which will not occur until after the Office of Management and Budget completes review of such requirements pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act or until after the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau determines that such review is not required. The compliance date will be one year after the removal or amendment of this paragraph (a)(7) for providers with 100,000 or fewer subscriber lines and six months after the removal or amendment of this paragraph (a)(7) for all other providers, except that the compliance date for paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be one year after the removal or amendment of this paragraph (a)(7) for all providers. The compliance date for the requirement in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to make labels accessible in online account portals will be one year after the removal or amendment of this paragraph (a)(7) for all providers. The Commission directs the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau to announce compliance dates for paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section by subsequent Public Notice and notification in theand to cause this section to be revised accordingly.

(b) Broadband internet access service is a mass-market retail service by wire or radio that provides the capability to transmit data to and receive data from all or substantially all internet endpoints, including any capabilities that are incidental to and enable the operation of the communications service, but excluding dial-up internet access service. This term also encompasses any service that the Commission finds to be providing a functional equivalent of the service described in the previous sentence or that is used to evade the protections set forth in this part.

(c) A network management practice is reasonable if it is appropriate and tailored to achieving a legitimate network management purpose, taking into account the particular network architecture and technology of the broadband internet access service.
