
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Rules of Practice and Procedure
###### General
####### § 1.4 Computation of time.
######## filing date

(4) The termmeans the date upon which a document must be filed after all computations of time authorized by this section have been made.

(f) Except as provided in § 0.401(b) of this chapter, all petitions, pleadings, tariffs or other documents not required to be accompanied by a fee and which are hand-carried must be tendered for filing in complete form, as directed by the Commission's rules, with the Office of the Secretary before 4 p.m., at the address indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a). The Secretary will determine whether a tendered document meets the pre-7:00 p.m. deadline. Documents filed electronically pursuant to § 1.49(f) must be received by the Commission's electronic filing system before midnight. Applications, attachments and pleadings filed electronically in the Universal Licensing System (ULS) pursuant to § 1.939(b) must be received before midnight on the filing date. Media Bureau applications and reports filed electronically pursuant to § 73.3500 of this chapter must be received by the electronic filing system before midnight on the filing date.

(g) Unless otherwise provided (e.g., §§ 1.773 and 76.1502(e)(1) of this chapter), if the filing period is less than 7 days, intermediate holidays shall not be counted in determining the filing date.

(h) If a document is required to be served upon other parties by statute or Commission regulation and the document is in fact served by mail (see § 1.47(f)), and the filing period for a response is 10 days or less, an additional 3 days (excluding holidays) will be allowed to all parties in the proceeding for filing a response. This paragraph (h) shall not apply to documents filed pursuant to § 1.89, § 1.315(b) or § 1.316. For purposes of this paragraph (h) service by facsimile or by electronic means shall be deemed equivalent to hand delivery.

(i) If both paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section are applicable, make the paragraph (g) computation before the paragraph (h) computation.
