
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 11 - EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM (EAS)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 11.18 EAS Designations.

(a) A Primary Entry Point (PEP) is a private or commercial radio broadcast station that cooperatively participates with FEMA to provide EAS alerts to the public. PEPs are the primary source of initial broadcast for a Presidential Alert. A PEP is equipped with back-up communications equipment and power generators designed to enable it to continue broadcasting information to the public during and after disasters of national significance. The National Public Warning System (formerly called the Primary Entry Point System) is a nationwide network of broadcast stations and satellite operators used to distribute EAS alerts formatted in the EAS Protocol. FEMA is responsible for designating broadcast stations as PEPs.

(b) A National Primary (NP) is an entity tasked with the primary responsibility of receiving the National Emergency Message from a PEP and delivering it to an individual state or portion of a state. In states without a PEP, the NP is responsible for receiving the National Emergency Message from an out-of-state PEP and transmitting it to the public and other EAS Participants in the state. Multiple entities may be charged with primary responsibility for delivering the National Emergency Message.

(c) A State Primary (SP) is an entity tasked with initiating the delivery of EAS alerts other than the National Emergency Message.

(d) A State Relay (SR) is an entity not otherwise designated that is charged with retransmitting EAS alerts for the purpose of being monitored by a Local Primary or Participating National. SRs must monitor or deliver EAS alerts as required by the State EAS Plan.

(e) A State Relay Network (SRN) is a network composed of State Relay (SR) sources, leased common carrier communications facilities, or any other available communication facilities. The network distributes State EAS messages originated by the Governor or designated official. In addition to EAS monitoring, satellites, microwave, FM subcarrier, or any other communications technology may be used to distribute State emergency messages.

(f) A Local Primary (LP) is an entity that serves as a monitoring assignment for other EAS Participants within the state. LP sources may be assigned numbers (e.g., LP-1, 2, 3) and are relied on as monitoring sources by other EAS Participants in the Local Area. An LP may monitor any other station, including another LP, as set forth in the State EAS Plan, so long as doing so avoids creating a single point of failure in the alert distribution hierarchy.

(g) A Participating National (PN) is an EAS Participant that transmits national, state, or Local Area EAS messages, and is not otherwise designated within the State EAS Plan. PNs monitor LPs or other sources as set forth in the State EAS Plan.
