
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 11 - EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM (EAS)
##### Subpart B - Equipment Requirements
###### § 11.33 EAS Decoder.
####### Display and logging.

(4)For received alert messages formatted in both the EAS Protocol and Common Alerting Protocol, a visual message shall be developed from any valid header codes for tests and national activations and any preselected header codes received. The message shall at a minimum include the Originator, Event, Location, the valid time period of the message and the local time the message was transmitted. The message shall be in the primary language of the EAS Participant and be fully displayed on the decoder and readable in normal light and darkness. The visual message developed from received alert messages formatted in the Common Alerting Protocol must conform to the requirements in §§ 11.51(d), (g)(3), (h)(3), and (j)(2) of this part. All existing and new models of EAS decoders manufactured after August 1, 2003 must provide a means to permit the selective display and logging of EAS messages containing header codes for state and local EAS events. Effective May 16, 2002, analog radio and television broadcast stations, analog cable systems and wireless cable systems may upgrade their decoders on an optional basis to include a selective display and logging capability for EAS messages containing header codes for state and local events. EAS Participants that install or replace their decoders after February 1, 2004 must install decoders that provide a means to permit the selective display and logging of EAS messages containing header codes for state and local EAS events.
