
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 11 - EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM (EAS)
##### Subpart D - Emergency Operations
###### ยง 11.51 EAS code and Attention Signal Transmission requirements.

(a) Analog and digital broadcast stations must transmit, either automatically or manually, national level EAS messages and required tests by sending the EAS header codes, Attention Signal, emergency message and End of Message (EOM) codes using the EAS Protocol. The Attention Signal must precede any emergency audio message.

(b) When relaying EAS messages, EAS Participants may transmit only the EAS header codes and the EOM code without the Attention Signal and emergency message for State and local emergencies. Pauses in video programming before EAS message transmission should not cause television receivers to mute EAS audio messages. No Attention Signal is required for EAS messages that do not contain audio programming, such as a Required Weekly Test.

(c) All analog and digital radio and television stations shall transmit EAS messages in the main audio channel. All DAB stations shall also transmit EAS messages on all audio streams. All DTV broadcast stations shall also transmit EAS messages on all program streams.

(d) Analog and digital television broadcast stations, analog cable systems, digital cable systems, wireless cable systems, wireline video systems, and DBS providers shall transmit a visual message containing the Originator, Event, and Location and the valid time period of an EAS message. Visual messages derived from CAP-formatted EAS messages shall contain the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the message and shall be constructed in accordance with ยง 3.6 of the "ECIG Recommendations for a CAP EAS Implementation Guide, Version 1.0" (May 17, 2010).

(1) The visual message portion of an EAS alert, whether video crawl or block text, must be displayed:

(i) At the top of the television screen or where it will not interfere with other visual messages
