
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Rules of Practice and Procedure
###### Pleadings, Briefs, and Other Papers
####### ยง 1.49 Specifications as to pleadings and documents.

(a) All pleadings and documents filed in paper form in any Commission proceeding shall be typewritten or prepared by mechanical processing methods, and shall be filed electronically or on paper with dimensions of A4 (21 cm. x 29.7 cm.) or on 8x 11 inch (21.6 cm. x 27.9 cm.) with the margins set so that the printed material does not exceed 6x 9inches (16.5 cm. x 24.1 cm.). The printed material may be in any typeface of at least 12-point (0.42333 cm. or&#x2033;) in height. The body of the text must be double spaced with a minimum distance ofof an inch (0.5556 cm.) between each line of text. Footnotes and long, indented quotations may be single spaced, but must be in type that is 12-point or larger in height, with at leastof an inch (0.158 cm.) between each line of text. Counsel are cautioned against employing extended single spaced passages or excessive footnotes to evade prescribed pleading lengths. If single-spaced passages or footnotes are used in this manner the pleading will, at the discretion of the Commission, either be rejected as unacceptable for filing or dismissed with leave to be refiled in proper form. Pleadings may be printed on both sides of the paper. Pleadings that use only one side of the paper shall be stapled, or otherwise bound, in the upper left-hand corner; those using both sides of the paper shall be stapled twice, or otherwise bound, along the left-hand margin so that it opens like a book. The foregoing shall not apply to printed briefs specifically requested by the Commission, official publications, charted or maps, original documents (or admissible copies thereof) offered as exhibits, specially prepared exhibits, or if otherwise specifically provided. All copies shall be clearly legible.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, all pleadings and documents filed with the Commission, the length of which as computed under this chapter exceeds ten pages, shall include, as part of the pleading or document, a table of contents with page references.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, all pleadings and documents filed with the Commission, the length of which filings as computed under this chapter exceeds ten pages, shall include, as part of the pleading or document, a summary of the filing, suitably paragraphed, which should be a succinct, but accurate and clear condensation of the substance of the filing. It should not be a mere repetition of the headings under which the filing is arranged. For pleadings and documents exceeding ten but not twenty-five pages in length, the summary should seldom exceed one and never two pages; for pleadings and documents exceeding twenty-five pages in length, the summary should seldom exceed two and never five pages.

(d) The requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to:

(1) Interrogatories or answers to interrogatories, and depositions;

(2) FCC forms or applications;

(3) Transcripts;

(4) Contracts and reports;

(5) Letters; or

(6) Hearing exhibits, and exhibits or appendicies accompanying any document or pleading submitted to the Commission.
