
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 11 - EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM (EAS)
##### Subpart E - Tests
###### ยง 11.61 Tests of EAS procedures.
####### Nationwide Tests of the Emergency Alert System (NPT) (national tests).

(3)(i) All EAS Participants shall participate in national tests as scheduled by the Commission in consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Such tests will consist of the delivery by FEMA to PEP/NP stations of a coded EAS message, including EAS header codes, Attention Signal, Test Script, and EOM code. All other EAS Participants will then be required to relay that EAS message. The coded message shall utilize EAS test codes as designated by the Commission's rules.

(ii) A national test shall replace the required weekly and monthly tests for all EAS Participants, as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, in the week and month in which it occurs.

(iii) Notice shall be provided to EAS Participants by the Commission at least two months prior to the conduct of any such national test.

(iv) Test results as required by the Commission shall be logged by all EAS Participants into the EAS Test Reporting System (ETRS) as determined by the Commission's Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, subject to the following requirements.

(A) EAS Participants shall provide the identifying information required by the ETRS initially no later than sixty days after the publication in theof a notice announcing the approval by the Office of Management and Budget of the modified information collection requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and an effective date of the rule amendment, or within sixty days of the launch of the ETRS, whichever is later, and shall renew this identifying information on a yearly basis or as required by any revision of the EAS Participant's State EAS Plan filed pursuant to ยง 11.21.

(B) "Day of test" data shall be filed in the ETRS within 24 hours of any nationwide test or as otherwise required by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau.

(C) Detailed post-test data shall be filed in the ETRS within forty five (45) days following any nationwide test.
