
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 13 - COMMERCIAL RADIO OPERATORS
##### General
###### ยง 13.8 Authority conveyed.

Licenses, certificates and permits issued under this part convey authority for the operating privileges of other licenses, certificates, and permits issued under this part as specified below:

(a) A First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate conveys all of the operating authority of the Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, the Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, the Radiotelegraph Operator License, the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit, and the Marine Radio Operator Permit.

(b) A Radiotelegraph Operator License conveys all of the operating authority of the Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, which conveys all of the operating authority of the Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit, and the Marine Radio Operator Permit.

(c) A Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate conveys all of the operating authority of the Restricted Radiotelophone Operator Permit and the Marine Radio Operator Permit.

(d) A General Radiotelephone Operator License conveys all of the operating authority of the Marine Radio Operator Permit and the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit.

(e) A GMDSS Radio Operator's License conveys all of the operating authority of the Marine Radio Operator Permit and the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit.

(f) A GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License conveys all of the operating authority of the General Radiotelephone Operator License, the Marine Radio Operator Permit, and the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit.

(g) A Marine Radio Operator Permit conveys all of the authority of the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit.
