
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 13 - COMMERCIAL RADIO OPERATORS
##### General
###### ยง 13.9 Eligibility and application for new license or endorsement.

(a) If found qualified, the following persons are eligible to apply for commercial radio operator licenses:

(1) Any person legally eligible for employment in the United States.

(2) Any person, for the purpose of operating aircraft radio stations, who holds:

(i) United States pilot certificates; or

(ii) Foreign aircraft pilot certificates which are valid in the United States, if the foreign government involved has entered into a reciprocal agreement under which such foreign government does not impose any similar requirement relating to eligibility for employment upon United States citizens.

(3) Any person who holds a FCC radio station license, for the purpose of operating that station.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the FCC's rules, no person shall be eligible to be issued a commercial radio operator license when

(i) The person's commercial radio operator license is suspended, or

(ii) The person's commercial radio operator license is the subject of an ongoing suspension proceeding, or

(iii) The person is afflicted with complete deafness or complete muteness or complete inability for any other reason to transmit correctly and to receive correctly by telephone spoken messages in English.

(b) Each application for a new General Radiotelephone Operator License, Marine Radio Operator Permit, Radiotelegraph Operator License, Ship Radar Endorsement, Six Months Service Endorsement, GMDSS Radio Operator's License, Restricted GMDSS Radio Operator's License, GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License, GMDSS Radio Operator/Maintainer License, Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit, or Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit-Limited Use must be filed on FCC Form 605 in accordance with ยง 1.913 of this chapter.

(c) Each application for a new General Radiotelephone Operator License, Marine Radio Operator Permit, Radiotelegraph Operator License, Ship Radar Endorsement, GMDSS Radio Operator's License, Restricted GMDSS Radio Operator's License, GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License, or GMDSS Radio Operator/Maintainer License must be accompanied by the required fee, if any, and submitted in accordance with ยง 1.913 of this chapter. The application must include an electronic copy of the official PPC(s) from a COLEM(s) showing that the applicant has passed the necessary examination Element(s) within the previous 365 days when the applicant files the application. If a COLEM files the application on behalf of the applicant, an official copy of the PPC(s) is not required. However, the COLEM must keep the PPC(s) on file for a period of 1 year. When acting on behalf of qualified examinees, the COLEM must forward all required data to the FCC electronically.

(d) An applicant will be given credit for an examination element as specified below:

(1) An unexpired (or within the grace period) FCC-issued commercial radio operator license: Except as noted in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the written examination and telegraphy Element(s) required to obtain the license held;

(2) An expired or unexpired FCC-issued Amateur Extra Class operator license grant granted before April 15, 2000: Telegraphy Elements 1 and 2; and
