
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 13 - COMMERCIAL RADIO OPERATORS
##### General
###### ยง 13.9 Eligibility and application for new license or endorsement.
####### see

(3) An FCC-issued Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate that was renewed as a Marine Radio Operator Permit (ยง 13.13(b) of this chapter) that is unexpired (or within the grace period): Telegraphy Elements 1 and 2.

(e) Provided that a person's commercial radio operator license was not revoked, or suspended, and is not the subject of an ongoing suspension proceeding, a person whose application for a commercial radio operator license has been received by the FCC but which has not yet been acted upon and who holds a PPC(s) indicating that he or she passed the necessary examination(s) within the previous 365 days, is authorized to exercise the rights and privileges of the operator license for which the application was received. This authority is valid for a period of 90 days from the date the application was received. The FCC, in its discretion, may cancel this temporary conditional operating authority without a hearing.

(f) Each application for a new six months service endorsement must be submitted in accordance with ยง 1.913 of this chapter. The application must include documentation showing that:

(1) The applicant was employed as a radio operator on board a ship or ships of the United States for a period totaling at least six months;

(2) The ships were equipped with a radio station complying with the provisions of part II of title III of the Communications Act, or the ships were owned and operated by the U.S. Government and equipped with radio stations;

(3) The ships were in service during the applicable six month period and no portion of any single in-port period included in the qualifying six months period exceeded seven days;

(4) The applicant held a FCC-issued First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, or Radiotelegraph Operator License during this entire six month qualifying period; and

(5) The applicant holds a radio officer's license issued by the U.S. Coast Guard at the time the six month endorsement is requested.

(g) No person shall alter, duplicate for fraudulent purposes, or fraudulently obtain or attempt to obtain an operator license. No person shall use a license issued to another or a license that he or she knows to be altered, duplicated for fraudulent purposes, or fraudulently obtained. No person shall obtain or attempt to obtain, or assist another person to obtain or attempt to obtain, an operator license by fraudulent means.
