
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - ACCESS TO ADVANCED COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT BY PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart D - Recordkeeping, Consumer Dispute Assistance, and Enforcement
###### ยง 14.32 Consumer Dispute Assistance.
####### etc.;

(7) Description of any contacts with the manufacturer or service provider to resolve the dispute, including, but not limited to, dates or approximate dates, any offers to settle,and

(8) What the Requester is seeking to resolve the dispute.

(c) CGB shall forward the Request for Dispute Assistance to the manufacturer or service provider named in the Request. CGB shall serve the manufacturer or service provider using the contact details of the certification to be filed pursuant to ยง 14.31(b). Service using contact details provided pursuant to ยง 14.31(b) is deemed served. Failure by a manufacturer or service provider to file or keep the contact information current will not be a defense of lack of service.

(d) CGB will assist the Requester and the manufacturer or service provider in reaching a settlement of the dispute.

(e) Thirty days after the Request for Dispute Assistance was filed, if a settlement has not been reached between the Requester and the manufacturer or service provider, the Requester may file an informal complaint with the Commission;

(f) When a Requester files an informal complaint with the Enforcement Bureau, as provided in ยง 14.34, the Commission will deem the CGB dispute assistance process closed and the requester and manufacturer or service provider shall be barred from further use of the Commission's dispute assistance process so long as a complaint is pending.
