
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 15.37 Transition provisions for compliance with this part.

(a) The manufacture or importation of scanning receivers, and frequency converters designed or marketed for use with scanning receivers, that do not comply with the provisions of § 15.121 shall cease on or before October 25, 1999. Effective July 26, 1999, the Commission will not grant equipment authorization for receivers that do not comply with the provisions of § 15.121. This paragraph does not prohibit the sale or use of authorized receivers manufactured in the United States, or imported into the United States, prior to October 25, 1999.

(b) Effective October 16, 2002, an equipment approval may no longer be obtained for medical telemetry equipment operating under the provisions of § 15.241 or § 15.242. The requirements for obtaining an approval for medical telemetry equipment after this date are found in subpart H of part 95 of this chapter.

(c) All radio frequency devices that are authorized on or after July 12, 2004 under the certification, or Supplier's Declaration of Conformity procedures (or the prior verification or declaration of conformity procedures, as applicable) shall comply with the conducted limits specified in § 15.107 or § 15.207 as appropriate. All radio frequency devices that are manufactured or imported on or after July 11, 2005 shall comply with the conducted limits specified in § 15.107 or § 15.207, as appropriate. Equipment authorized, imported or manufactured prior to these dates shall comply with the conducted limits specified in § 15.107 or § 15.207, as appropriate, or with the conducted limits that were in effect immediately prior to September 9, 2002.

(d) Radar detectors manufactured or imported after August 28, 2002 and marketed after September 27, 2002 shall comply with the regulations specified in this part. Radar detectors manufactured or imported prior to January 27, 2003 may be labeled with the information required by § 2.925 of this chapter and § 15.19(a) on the individual equipment carton rather than on the device, and are exempt from complying with the requirements of § 15.21.

(e) U-NII equipment operating in the 5.25-5.35 GHz band for which applications for certification are filed on or after July 20, 2006 shall comply with the DFS and TPC requirements specified in § 15.407. U-NII equipment operating in the 5.25-5.35 GHz band that are imported or marketed on or after July 20, 2007 shall comply with the DFS and TPC requirements in § 15.407.

(f) All Access BPL devices that are manufactured, imported, marketed or installed on or after July 7, 2006, shall comply with the requirements specified in subpart G of this part, including certification of the equipment.

(g) The manufacture or importation of auditory assistance devices that operate in the 72.0-73.0 MHz, 74.6-74.8 MHz, and 75.2-76.0 MHz bands that do not comply with the requirements of § 15.237(c) shall cease on or before July 11, 2016. Effective January 12, 2015, equipment approval will not be granted for auditory assistance devices that operate in the 72.0-73.0 MHz, 74.6-74.8 MHz, and 75.2-76.0 MHz bands that do not comply with the requirements of § 15.237(c). These rules do not prohibit the sale or use of authorized auditory assistance devices that operate in the 72.0-73.0 MHz, 74.6-74.8 MHz, and 75.2-76.0 MHz bands manufactured in the United States, or imported into the United States, prior to July 11, 2016.

(h) Effective June 2, 2015 devices using digital modulation techniques in the 5725-5850 MHz bands will no longer be certified under the provisions of § 15.247. The technical requirements for obtaining certification after this date for digitally modulated devices and the digitally modulated portion of hybrid devices are found in subpart E of this part. The provisions for the frequency hopping spread spectrum portion of hybrid devices will remain in § 15.247. Effective June 2, 2016 systems using digital modulation techniques in the 5725-5850 MHz band certified under the provisions of § 15.247 may no longer be imported or marketed within the United States.

(i) As of December 26, 2017, wireless microphones for which an application for certification is filed must comply with the requirements of § 15.236. Manufacturing and marketing of wireless microphones that would not comply with the rules for operation in § 15.236 must cease no later than September 24, 2018. Only wireless microphones certified for operation under this part may be operated under this part as of July 13, 2020.

(j) White space devices which are approved by Telecommunication Certification Bodies beginning [six months after the effective date of the rules] shall comply with the database re-check requirements in § 15.711(h) of this part. White space devices that are in operation, imported or marketed beginning [six months after the effective date of the rules] shall also comply with these requirements.
