
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Unintentional Radiators
###### ยง 15.109 Radiated emission limits.

(a) Except for Class A digital devices, the field strength of radiated emissions from unintentional radiators at a distance of 3 meters shall not exceed the following values:

(b) The field strength of radiated emissions from a Class A digital device, as determined at a distance of 10 meters, shall not exceed the following:

(c) In the emission tables above, the tighter limit applies at the band edges. Sections 15.33 and 15.35 which specify the frequency range over which radiated emissions are to be measured and the detector functions and other measurement standards apply.

(d) For CB receivers, the field strength of radiated emissions within the frequency range of 25-30 MHz shall not exceed 40 microvolts/meter at a distance of 3 meters. The field strength of radiated emissions above 30 MHz from such devices shall comply with the limits in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) Carrier current systems used as unintentional radiators or other unintentional radiators that are designed to conduct their radio frequency emissions via connecting wires or cables and that operate in the frequency range of 9 kHz to 30 MHz, including devices that deliver the radio frequency energy to transducers, such as ultrasonic devices not covered under part 18 of this chapter, shall comply with the radiated emission limits for intentional radiators provided in ยง 15.209 for the frequency range of 9 kHz to 30 MHz. As an alternative, carrier current systems used as unintentional radiators and operating in the frequency range of 525 kHz to 1705 kHz may comply with the radiated emission limits provided in ยง 15.221(a). At frequencies above 30 MHz, the limits in paragraph (a), (b), or (g) of this section, as appropriate, apply.

(f) For a receiver which employs terminals for the connection of an external receiving antenna, the receiver shall be tested to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section with an antenna connected to the antenna terminals unless the antenna conducted power is measured as specified in ยง 15.111(a). If a permanently attached receiving antenna is used, the receiver shall be tested to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section.
