
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Unintentional Radiators
###### ยง 15.109 Radiated emission limits.
####### see

(g) As an alternative to the radiated emission limits shown in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, digital devices may be shown to comply with the standards contained in Third Edition of the International Special Committee on Radio Interference (CISPR), Pub. 22, "Information Technology Equipment-Radio Disturbance Characteristics-Limits and Methods of Measurement" (incorporated by reference,ยง 15.38). In addition:

(1) The test procedure and other requirements specified in this part shall continue to apply to digital devices.

(2) If, in accordance with ยง 15.33 of this part, measurements must be performed above 1000 MHz, compliance above 1000 MHz shall be demonstrated with the emission limit in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate. Measurements above 1000 MHz may be performed at the distance specified in the CISPR 22 publications for measurements below 1000 MHz provided the limits in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are extrapolated to the new measurement distance using an inverse linear distance extrapolation factor (20 dB/decade), e.g., the radiated limit above 1000 MHz for a Class B digital device is 150 uV/m, as measured at a distance of 10 meters.

(3) The measurement distances shown in CISPR Pub. 22, including measurements made in accordance with this paragraph above 1000 MHz, are considered, for the purpose of ยง 15.31(f)(4) of this part, to be the measurement distances specified in this part.

(h) Radar detectors shall comply with the emission limits in paragraph (a) of this section over the frequency range of 11.7-12.2 GHz.
