
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Unintentional Radiators
###### ยง 15.115 TV interface devices, including cable system terminal devices.

(a) Measurements of the radiated emissions of a TV interface device shall be conducted with the output terminal(s) of the device terminated by a resistance equal to the rated output impedance. The emanations of a TV interface device incorporating an intentional radiator shall not exceed the limits in ยง 15.109 or subpart C of this part, whichever is higher for each frequency. Where it is possible to determine which portion of the device is contributing a particular radio frequency emission, the emissions from the TV interface device portion shall comply with the emission limits in ยง 15.109, and the emissions from the intentional radiator shall comply with subpart C of this part.

(b) Output signal limits:

(1) At any RF output terminal, the maximum measured RMS voltage, in microvolts, corresponding to the peak envelope power of the modulated signal during maximum amplitude peaks across a resistance (R in ohms) matching the rated output impedance of the TV interface device, shall not exceed the following:

(i) For a cable system terminal device or a TV interface device used with a master antenna, 692.8 times the square root of (R) for the video signal and 155 times the square root of (R) for the audio signal.

(ii) For all other TV interface devices, 346.4 times the square root of (R) for the video signal and 77.5 times the square root of (R) for the audio signal.

(2) At any RF output terminal, the maximum measured RMS voltage, in microvolts, corresponding to the peak envelope power of the modulated signal during maximum amplitude peaks across a resistance (R in ohms) matching the rated output impedance of the TV interface device, of any emission appearing on frequencies removed by more than 4.6 MHz below or 7.4 MHz above the video carrier frequency on which the TV interface device is operated shall not exceed the following:

(i) For a cable system terminal device or a TV interface device used with a master antenna, 692.8 times the square root of (R).

(ii) For all other TV interface devices, 10.95 times the square root of (R).
