
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Unintentional Radiators
###### ยง 15.117 TV broadcast receivers.
####### Tuning controls and channel readout.

(2)UHF tuning controls and channel readout on a given receiver shall be comparable in size, location, accessibility and legibility to VHF controls and readout on that receiver.

(d) If equipment and controls that tend to simplify, expedite or perfect the reception of television signals (e.g., AFC, visual aids, remote control, or signal seeking capability referred to generally as tuning aids) are incorporated into the VHF portion of a TV broadcast receiver, tuning aids of the same type and comparable capability and quality shall be provided for the UHF portion of that receiver.

(e) If a television receiver has an antenna affixed to the VHF antenna terminals, it must have an antenna designed for and capable of receiving all UHF television channels affixed to the UHF antenna terminals. If a VHF antenna is provided with but not affixed to a receiver, a UHF antenna shall be provided with the receiver.

(f) The picture sensitivity of a TV broadcast receiver averaged for all channels between 14 and 69 inclusive shall not be more than 8dB larger than the peak picture sensitivity of that receiver averaged for all channels between 2 and 13 inclusive.

(g) The noise figure for any television channel 14 to 69 inclusive shall not exceed 14 dB. A TV receiver model is considered to comply with this noise figure if the maximum noise figure for channels 14-69 inclusive of 97.5% of all receivers within that model does not exceed 14 dB.

(1) The responsible party shall measure the noise figure of a number of UHF channels of the test sample to give reasonable assurance that the UHF noise figure for each channel complies with the above limit.

(2) The responsible party shall insert in his files a statement explaining the basis on which it will rely to ensure that at least 97.5% of all production units of the test sample that are manufactured have a noise figure of no greater than 14 dB.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) In the case of a TV tuner built-in as part of a video tape recorder that uses a power splitter between the antenna terminals of the video tape recorder and the input terminals of the TV tuner or a TV broadcast receiver that uses a power splitter between the antenna terminals of two or more UHF tuners contained within that receiver, 4 dB may be subtracted from the noise figure measured at the antenna terminals of the video tape recorder or TV broadcast receiver for determining compliance of the UHF tuner(s) with the 14 dB noise figure limit.
