
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Unintentional Radiators
###### § 15.118 Cable ready consumer electronics equipment.
####### Cable input conducted emissions.

(5)(i) Conducted spurious emissions that appear at the cable input to the device must meet the following criteria. The input shall be an NTSC video carrier modulated with a 10 IRE flat field with color burst at a level of 0 dBmV and with a visual to aural ratio of 10 dB. The aural carrier shall be unmodulated. The peak level of the spurious signals will be measured using a spectrum analyzer connected by a directional coupler to the cable input of the equipment under test. Spurious signal levels must not exceed the limits in the following table:

(ii) The average of the measurements on multiple channels from 450 MHz up to and including 804 MHz shall be no greater than -20 dBmV. Measurements shall be made with the receiver tuned to at least four EIA IS-132 channels in each of the above bands. The test channels are to be evenly distributed across each of the bands. Measurements for conducted emissions caused by sources internal to the device are to be made in a shielded room. Measurements for conducted emissions caused by external signal sources shall be made in an ambient RF field whose field strength is 100 mV/m, following the same test conditions as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(d) The field strength of radiated emissions from cable ready consumer electronics equipment shall not exceed the limits in § 15.109(a) when measured in accordance with the applicable procedures specified in §§ 15.31 and 15.35 for unintentional radiators, with the following modifications. During testing the NTSC input signal level is to be + 15 dBmV, with a visual to aural ratio of 10 dB. The visual carrier is to be modulated by a 10 IRE flat field with color burst; the aural carrier is to be unmodulated. Measurements are to be taken on six EIA IS-132 channels evenly spaced across the required RF input range of the equipment under test.
