
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Intentional Radiators
###### Radiated Emission Limits, Additional Provisions
####### ยง 15.242 Operation in the bands 174-216 MHz and 470-668 MHz.
######## i.e.,

(f) Biomedical telemetry devices must not cause harmful interference to licensed TV broadcast stations or to other authorized radio services, such as operations on the broadcast frequencies under subparts G and H of part 74 of this chapter, land mobile stations operating under part 90 of this chapter in the 470-512 MHz band, and radio astronomy operation in the 608-614 MHz band. (See ยง 15.5.) If harmful interference occurs, the interference must either be corrected or the device must immediately cease operation on the occupied frequency. Further, the operator of the biomedical telemetry device must accept whatever level of interference is received from other radio operations. The operator,the health care facility, is responsible for resolving any interference that occurs subsequent to the installation of these devices.

(g) The manufacturers, installers, and users of biomedical telemetry devices are reminded that they must ensure that biomedical telemetry transmitters operating under the provisions of this section avoid operating in close proximity to authorized services using this spectrum. Sufficient separation distance, necessary to avoid causing or receiving harmful interference, must be maintained from co-channel operations. These parties are reminded that the frequencies of the authorized services are subject to change, especially during the implementation of the digital television services. The operating frequencies of the part 15 devices may need to be changed, as necessary and in accordance with the permissive change requirements of this chapter, to accommodate changes in the operating frequencies of the authorized services.

(h) The manufacturers, installers and users of biomedical telemetry devices are cautioned that the operation of this equipment could result in harmful interference to other nearby medical devices.
