
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Intentional Radiators
###### Radiated Emission Limits, Additional Provisions
####### ยง 15.256 Operation of level probing radars within the bands 5.925-7.250 GHz, 24.05-29.00 GHz, and 75-85 GHz.

(a) Operation under this section is limited to level probing radar (LPR) devices.

(b) LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section shall utilize a dedicated or integrated transmit antenna, and the system shall be installed and maintained to ensure a vertically downward orientation of the transmit antenna's main beam.

(c) LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section shall be installed only at fixed locations. The LPR device shall not operate while being moved, or while inside a moving container.

(d) Hand-held applications are prohibited.

(e) Marketing to residential consumers is prohibited.

(f) The fundamental bandwidth of an LPR emission is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below and one above the center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated by at least 10 dB relative to the maximum transmitter output power when measured in an equivalent resolution bandwidth.

(1) The minimum fundamental emission bandwidth shall be 50 MHz for LPR operation under the provisions of this section.

(2) LPR devices operating under this section must confine their fundamental emission bandwidth within the 5.925-7.250 GHz, 24.05-29.00 GHz, and 75-85 GHz bands under all conditions of operation.
