
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Intentional Radiators
###### Radiated Emission Limits, Additional Provisions
####### ยง 15.256 Operation of level probing radars within the bands 5.925-7.250 GHz, 24.05-29.00 GHz, and 75-85 GHz.
######## Fundamental emissions limits.

(g)(1) All emission limits provided in this section are expressed in terms of Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP).

(2) The EIRP level is to be determined from the maximum measured power within a specified bandwidth.

(i) The EIRP in 1 MHz is computed from the maximum power level measured within any 1-MHz bandwidth using a power averaging detector;

(ii) The EIRP in 50 MHz is computed from the maximum power level measured with a peak detector in a 50-MHz bandwidth centered on the frequency at which the maximum average power level is realized and this 50 MHz bandwidth must be contained within the authorized operating bandwidth. For a RBW less than 50 MHz, the peak EIRP limit (in dBm) is reduced by 20 log(RBW/50) dB where RBW is the resolution bandwidth in megahertz. The RBW shall not be lower than 1 MHz or greater than 50 MHz. The video bandwidth of the measurement instrument shall not be less than the RBW. If the RBW is greater than 3 MHz, the application for certification filed shall contain a detailed description of the test procedure, calibration of the test setup, and the instrumentation employed in the testing.
