
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Intentional Radiators
###### Radiated Emission Limits, Additional Provisions
####### ยง 15.256 Operation of level probing radars within the bands 5.925-7.250 GHz, 24.05-29.00 GHz, and 75-85 GHz.
######## Measurement procedures.

(l)(1) Radiated measurements of the fundamental emission bandwidth and power shall be made with maximum main-beam coupling between the LPR and test antennas (boresight).

(2) Measurements of the unwanted emissions radiating from an LPR shall be made utilizing elevation and azimuth scans to determine the location at which the emissions are maximized.

(3) All emissions at and below 1,000 MHz except 9-90 kHz and 110-490 kHz bands are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector.

(4) The fundamental emission bandwidth measurement shall be made using a peak detector with a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz and a video bandwidth of at least 3 MHz.

(5) The provisions in ยง 15.35(b) and (c) of this part that require emissions to be averaged over a 100 millisecond period and that limits the peak power to 20 dB above the average limit do not apply to devices operating under paragraphs (a) through (l) of this section.

(6) Compliance measurements for minimum emission bandwidth of frequency-agile LPR devices shall be performed with any related frequency sweep, step, or hop function activated.

(7) Compliance measurements shall be made in accordance with the specific procedures published or otherwise authorized by the Commission.
