
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Unlicensed National Information Infrastructure Devices
###### § 15.407 General technical requirements.
####### Undesirable emission limits.

(b)Except as shown in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the maximum emissions outside of the frequency bands of operation shall be attenuated in accordance with the following limits:

(1) For transmitters operating in the 5.15-5.25 GHz band: All emissions outside of the 5.15-5.35 GHz band shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. of -27 dBm/MHz.

(2) For transmitters operating in the 5.25-5.35 GHz band: All emissions outside of the 5.15-5.35 GHz band shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. of -27 dBm/MHz.

(3) For transmitters operating in the 5.47-5.725 GHz band: All emissions outside of the 5.47-5.725 GHz band shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. of -27 dBm/MHz.

(4) For transmitters operating solely in the 5.725-5.850 GHz band:

(i) All emissions shall be limited to a level of -27 dBm/MHz at 75 MHz or more above or below the band edge increasing linearly to 10 dBm/MHz at 25 MHz above or below the band edge, and from 25 MHz above or below the band edge increasing linearly to a level of 15.6 dBm/MHz at 5 MHz above or below the band edge, and from 5 MHz above or below the band edge increasing linearly to a level of 27 dBm/MHz at the band edge.

(ii) Devices certified before March 2, 2017 with antenna gain greater than 10 dBi may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in § 15.247(d), but manufacturing, marketing and importing of devices certified under this alternative must cease by March 2, 2018. Devices certified before March 2, 2018 with antenna gain of 10 dBi or less may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in § 15.247(d), but manufacturing, marketing and importing of devices certified under this alternative must cease before March 2, 2020.

(5) For transmitters operating solely in the 5.850-5.895 GHz band or operating on a channel that spans across 5.725-5.895 GHz:

(i) For an indoor access point or subordinate device, all emissions at or above 5.895 GHz shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. of 15 dBm/MHz and shall decrease linearly to an e.i.r.p. of -7 dBm/MHz at or above 5.925 GHz.

(ii) For a client device, all emissions at or above 5.895 GHz shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. of -5 dBm/MHz and shall decrease linearly to an e.i.r.p. of -27 dBm/MHz at or above 5.925 GHz.

(iii) For a client device or indoor access point or subordinate device, all emissions below 5.725 GHz shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. of -27 dBm/MHz at 5.65 GHz increasing linearly to 10 dBm/MHz at 5.7 GHz, and from 5.7 GHz increasing linearly to a level of 15.6 dBm/MHz at 5.72 GHz, and from 5.72 GHz increasing linearly to a level of 27 dBm/MHz at 5.725 GHz.

(6) For transmitters operating within the 5.925-7.125 GHz band: Any emissions outside of the 5.925-7.125 GHz band must not exceed an e.i.r.p. of -27 dBm/MHz.

(7) For transmitters operating within the 5.925-7.125 GHz bands: Power spectral density must be suppressed by 20 dB at 1 MHz outside of channel edge, by 28 dB at one channel bandwidth from the channel center, and by 40 dB at one- and one-half times the channel bandwidth away from channel center. At frequencies between one megahertz outside an unlicensed device's channel edge and one channel bandwidth from the center of the channel, the limits must be linearly interpolated between 20 dB and 28 dB suppression, and at frequencies between one and one- and one-half times an unlicensed device's channel bandwidth, the limits must be linearly interpolated between 28 dB and 40 dB suppression. Emissions removed from the channel center by more than one- and one-half times the channel bandwidth must be suppressed by at least 40 dB.

(8) The emission measurements shall be performed using a minimum resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz. A lower resolution bandwidth may be employed near the band edge, when necessary, provided the measured energy is integrated to show the total power over 1 MHz.

(9) Unwanted emissions below 1 GHz must comply with the general field strength limits set forth in § 15.209. Further, any U-NII devices using an AC power line are required to comply also with the conducted limits set forth in § 15.207.

(10) The provisions of § 15.205 apply to intentional radiators operating under this section.

(11) When measuring the emission limits, the nominal carrier frequency shall be adjusted as close to the upper and lower frequency band edges as the design of the equipment permits.

(c) The device shall automatically discontinue transmission in case of either absence of information to transmit or operational failure. These provisions are not intended to preclude the transmission of control or signalling information or the use of repetitive codes used by certain digital technologies to complete frame or burst intervals. Applicants shall include in their application for equipment authorization a description of how this requirement is met.
