
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Unlicensed National Information Infrastructure Devices
###### ยง 15.407 General technical requirements.
####### Automated frequency coordination (AFC) system.

(k)(1) Standard power access points and fixed client devices operating under paragraph (a)(4) of this section must access an AFC system to determine the available frequencies and the maximum permissible power in each frequency range at their geographic coordinates prior to transmitting. Standard power access points and fixed client devices may transmit only on frequencies and at power levels that an AFC system indicates as available.

(2) An AFC system must be capable of determining the available frequencies in steps of no greater than 3 dB below the maximum permissible e.i.r.p of 36 dBm, and down to at least a minimum level of 21 dBm.

(3) An AFC system must obtain information on protected services within the 5.925-6.425 GHz and 6.525-6.875 GHz bands from Commission databases and use that information to determine frequency availability for standard power access points and fixed client devices based on protection criteria specified in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.

(4) An AFC system must use the information supplied by standard power access points and fixed client devices during registration, as set forth in this section, to determine available frequencies and the maximum permissible power in each frequency range for a standard power access point at any given location. All such determinations and assignments must be made in a non-discriminatory manner, consistent with this part.

(5) An AFC system must store registered information in a secure database until a standard power access point or fixed client device ceases operation at a location. For the purpose of this paragraph, a standard power access point or fixed client device is considered to have ceased operation when that device has not contacted the AFC system for more than three months to verify frequency availability information.

(6) An AFC system must verify the validity of the FCC identifier (FCC ID) of any standard power access point and fixed client device seeking access to its services prior to authorizing the access point to begin operation. A list of standard power access points with valid FCC IDs and the FCC IDs of those devices must be obtained from the Commission's Equipment Authorization System.

(7) The general purposes of AFC system include:

(i) Enacting all policies and procedures developed by the AFC system operators pursuant to this section.

(ii) Registering, authenticating, and authorizing standard power access point and fixed client device operations, individually or through a network element device representing multiple standard power access points from the same operating network.

(iii) Providing standard power access points and fixed client devices with the permissible frequencies and the maximum permissible power in each frequency range at their locations using propagation models and interference protection criteria defined in paragraph (l) of this section.

(iv) Obtaining updated protected sites information from Commission databases.

(8) Standard power access points and fixed client devices:

(i) Must register with and be authorized by an AFC system prior to the standard power access point and fixed client device's initial service transmission, or after a standard power access point or fixed client device changes location, and must obtain a list of available frequencies and the maximum permissible power in each frequency range at the standard power access point and fixed client device's location.

(ii) Must register with the AFC system by providing the following parameters: Geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD 83)), antenna height above ground level, FCC identification number, and unique manufacturer's serial number. If any of these parameters change, the standard power access point or fixed client device must provide updated parameters to the AFC system. All information provided by the standard power access point and the fixed client device to the AFC system must be true, complete, correct, and made in good faith.

(iii) Must provide the registration information to the AFC system either directly and individually or by a network element representing multiple standard power access points or fixed client devices from the same operating network. The standard power access point, fixed client device or its network element must register with the AFC system via any communication link, wired or wireless, outside 5.925-6.425 GHz and 6.525-6.875 GHz bands.

(iv) Must contact an AFC system at least once per day to obtain the latest list of available frequencies and the maximum permissible power the standard power access point or fixed client device may operate with on each frequency at the standard power access point and fixed client device's location. If the standard power access point or fixed client device fails to successfully contact the AFC system during any given day, the standard power access point or fixed client device may continue to operate until 11:59 p.m. of the following day at which time it must cease operations until it re-establishes contact with the AFC system and re-verifies its list of available frequencies and associated power levels.

(v) Must incorporate adequate security measures to prevent it from accessing AFC systems not approved by the FCC and to ensure that unauthorized parties cannot modify the device to operate in a manner inconsistent with the rules and protection criteria set forth in this section and to ensure that communications between standard power access points, fixed client devices and AFC systems are secure to prevent corruption or unauthorized interception of data. Additionally, the AFC system must incorporate security measures to protect against unauthorized data input or alteration of stored data, including establishing communications authentication procedures between client devices and standard power access points.

(9) Standard power access point and fixed client device geo-location capability:

(i) A standard power access point and a fixed client device must include either an internal geo-location capability or an integrated capability to securely connect to an external geolocation devices or service, to automatically determine the standard power access point's geographic coordinates and location uncertainty (in meters), with a confidence level of 95%. The standard power access point and fixed client device must report such coordinates and location uncertainty to an AFC system at the time of activation from a power-off condition.

(ii) An external geo-location source may be connected to a standard power access point or fixed client device through either a wired or a wireless connection. A single geo-location source may provide location information to multiple standard power access points or fixed client devices.

(iii) An external geo-location source must be connected to a standard power access point or fixed client device using a secure connection that ensures that only an external geo-location source approved for use with a standard power access point or fixed client device provides geographic coordinates to that standard power access point or fixed client device. Alternatively, an extender cable may be used to connect a remote receive antenna to a geo-location receiver within a standard power access point or fixed client device.

(iv) The applicant for certification of a standard power access point or fixed client device must demonstrate the accuracy of the geo-location method used and the location uncertainty. For standard power access points and fixed client devices that may not use an internal geo-location capability, this uncertainty must account for the accuracy of the geo-location source and the separation distance between such source and the standard power access point or fixed client device.

(10) An AFC system operator will be designated for a five-year term which can be renewed by the Commission based on the operator's performance during the term. If an AFC system ceases operation, it must provide at least 30-days' notice to the Commission and transfer any registration data to another AFC system operator.

(11) The Commission will designate one or more AFC system operators to provide service in the 5.925-6.425 GHz and 6.525-6.875 GHz bands.

(12) The Commission may permit the functions of an AFC system, such as a data repository, registration, and query services, to be divided among multiple entities; however, entities designated as AFC system operators will be held accountable for the overall functioning and system administration of the AFC system.

(13) The AFC system must ensure that all communications and interactions between the AFC system and standard power access points and fixed client devices are accurate and secure and that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the database, or the list of available frequencies and associated powers sent to a standard power access point.

(14) An AFC system must implement the terms of international agreements with Mexico and Canada.

(15) Each AFC system operator designated by the Commission must:

(i) Maintain a regularly updated AFC system database that contains the information described in this section, including incumbent's information and standard power access points and fixed client devices registration parameters.

(ii) Establish and follow protocols and procedures to ensure compliance with the rules set forth in this part.

(iii) Establish and follow protocols and procedures sufficient to ensure that all communications and interactions between the AFC system and standard power access points and fixed client devices are accurate and secure and that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the AFC system, or the information transmitted from the AFC system to standard power access points or fixed client devices.

(iv) Provide service for a five-year term. This term may be renewed at the Commission's discretion.

(v) Respond in a timely manner to verify, correct, or remove, as appropriate, data in the event that the Commission or a party presents to the AFC system Operator a claim of inaccuracies in the AFC system. This requirement applies only to information that the Commission requires to be stored in the AFC system.

(vi) Establish and follow protocols to comply with enforcement instructions from the Commission, including discontinuance of standard power access point operations in designated geographic areas.

(16) An AFC system operator may charge fees for providing service in registration and channel availability functions. The Commission may, upon request, review the fees and can require changes to those fees if the Commission finds them unreasonable.
