
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Unlicensed National Information Infrastructure Devices
###### ยง 15.407 General technical requirements.
####### Incumbent Protection by AFC system: Fixed Microwave Services.

(l)A standard power access point or fixed client device must not cause harmful interference to fixed microwave services authorized to operate in the 5.925-6.425 GHz and 6.525-6.875 GHz bands. Based on the criteria set forth below, an AFC system must establish location and frequency-based exclusion zones (both co-channel and adjacent channel) around fixed microwave receivers operating in the 5.925-6.425 GHz and 6.525-6.875 GHz bands. Individual standard power access points and fixed client devices must not operate co-channel to fixed microwave system frequencies within co-channel exclusion zones, or on adjacent channel frequencies within adjacent channel exclusion zones.

(1) Propagation Models: Propagation models to determine the appropriate separation distance between a standard power access point or a fixed client device and an incumbent fixed microwave service receiver. For a separation distance:

(i) Up to 30 meters, the AFC system must use the free space path-loss model.

(ii) More than 30 meters and up to and including one kilometer, the AFC system must use the Wireless World Initiative New Radio phase II (WINNER II) model. The AFC system must use site-specific information, including buildings and terrain data, for determining the line-of-sight/non-line-of-sight path component in the WINNER II model, where such data is available. For evaluating paths where such data is not available, the AFC system must use a probabilistic model combining the line-of-sight path and non-line-of-sight path into a single path-loss as follows:

(iii) More than one kilometer, the AFC system must use Irregular Terrain Model (ITM) combined with the appropriate clutter model. To account for the effects of clutter, such as buildings and foliage, that the AFC system must combine the ITM with the ITU-R P.2108-0 (06/2017) clutter model for urban and suburban environments and the ITU-R P.452-16 (07/2015) clutter model for rural environments. The AFC system should use the most appropriate clutter category for the local morphology when using ITU-R P.452-16. However, if detailed local information is not available, the "Village Centre" clutter category should be used. The AFC system must use 1 arc-second digital elevation terrain data and, for locations where such data is not available, the most granular available digital elevation terrain data.

(2) Interference Protection Criteria:

(i) The AFC system must use -6 dB I/N as the interference protection criteria in determining the size of the co-channel exclusion zone where I (interference) is the co-channel signal from the standard power access point or fixed client device at the fixed microwave service receiver, and N (noise) is background noise level at the fixed microwave service receiver.

(ii) The AFC system must use -6 dB I/N as the interference protection criteria in determining the size of the adjacent channel exclusion zone, where I (interference) is the signal from the standard power access point or fixed client device's out of channel emissions at the fixed microwave service receiver and N (noise) is background noise level at the fixed microwave service receiver. The adjacent channel exclusion zone must be calculated based on the emissions requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
