
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart G - Access Broadband Over Power Line (Access BPL)
###### ยง 15.615 General administrative requirements.
####### Access BPL Database.

(a)Entities operating Access BPL systems shall supply to an industry-recognized entity, information on all existing Access BPL systems and all proposed Access BPL systems for inclusion into a publicly available data base, within 30 days prior to initiation of service. Such information shall include the following:

(1) The name of the Access BPL provider.

(2) The frequencies of the Access BPL operation.

(3) The postal zip codes served by the specific Access BPL operation.

(4) The manufacturer and type of Access BPL equipment and its associated FCC ID number, or, in the case of Access BPL equipment that has not been subject to certification in the past, the Trade Name and Model Number, as specified on the equipment label.

(5) The contact information, including both phone number and e-mail address of a person at, or associated with, the BPL operator's company, to facilitate the resolution of any interference complaint.

(6) The proposed/or actual date of Access BPL operation.

(b) The Access BPL database manager shall enter this information into the publicly accessible database within three (3) business days of receipt.

(c) No notification to the Commission is required.

(d) A licensed spectrum user experiencing harmful interference that is suspected to be caused by an Access BPL system shall inform the local BPL operator's contact person designated in the Access BPL database. The investigation of the reported interference and the resolution of confirmed harmful interference from the Access BPL system shall be successfully completed by the BPL operator within a reasonable time period according to a mutually acceptable schedule, after the receipt of an interference complaint, in order to avoid protracted disruptions to licensed services. The Access BPL operator shall respond to complaints of harmful interference from public safety users within 24 hours. With regard to public safety complaints, the BPL provider shall be required to immediately cease the operations causing such complaint if it fails to respond within 24 hours.
