
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.709 General technical requirements.
####### Narrowband white space devices.

(4)(i) A narrowband white space device that operates as a client must communicate with a master device (fixed, Mode II, mobile or narrowband) that contacts the white space database to obtain a list of available channels and operating powers at its location. A narrowband white space device that acts as a master must incorporate a geo-location mechanism and be capable of obtaining lists of available channels and operating powers from the white space database.

(ii) Narrowband white space devices shall operate on channel sizes that are no more than 100 kilohertz. The edge of a narrowband channel shall be offset from the upper and lower edge of the 6 megahertz channel in which it operates by at least 250 kilohertz, except in the case where bonded 6 megahertz channels share a common band edge. Narrowband operating channels shall be at integral multiples of 100 kilohertz beginning at a 250 kilohertz offset from a 6 megahertz channel's edge, or with no offset at the common band edge of two bonded 6 megahertz channels.

(iii) The conducted power limit is 12.6 dBm in a 100 kilohertz segment. The EIRP limit is 18.6 dBm in a 100 kilohertz segment. The conducted power spectral density limit is 12.6 dBm in any 100 kilohertz band during any time interval of continuous transmission.

(iv) Conducted adjacent channel emissions shall be limited to -42.8 dBm in 100 kilohertz in a first adjacent 6 megahertz channel, starting at the edge of the 6 megahertz channel within which the narrowband device is operating. This limit shall not apply between the edge of the narrowband channel and the edge of the 6 megahertz channel that contains it.

(v) If transmitting antennas of directional gain greater than 6 dBi are used, the maximum conducted power output shall be reduced by the amount in dB that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 6 dBi.

(vi) Total occupancy for each narrowband channel shall be limited to 36 seconds per hour.
