
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.709 General technical requirements.
####### Conducted power limits.

(c)(1) The conducted power, PSD and adjacent channel limits for fixed white space devices operating at up to 36 dBm (4000 milliwatts) EIRP shown in the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are based on a maximum transmitting antenna gain of 6 dBi. If transmitting antennas of directional gain greater than 6 dBi are used, the maximum conducted output power shall be reduced by the amount in dB that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 6 dBi.

(2) The conducted power, PSD, and adjacent channel limits for fixed and mobile white space devices operating at greater than 36 dBm (4,000 milliwatts) EIRP shown in the table in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section are based on a maximum transmitting antenna gain of 12 dBi. If transmitting antennas of directional gain greater than 12 dBi are used, the maximum conducted output power shall be reduced by the amount in dB that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 12 dBi.

(3) Maximum conducted output power is the total transmit power over the occupied bandwidth delivered to all antennas and antenna elements averaged across all symbols in the signaling alphabet when the transmitter is operating at its maximum power level. Power must be summed across all antennas and antenna elements. The average must not include any time intervals during which the transmitter is off or is transmitting at a reduced power level. If multiple modes of operation are possible (e.g., alternative modulation methods), the maximum conducted output power is the highest total transmit power occurring in any mode.

(4) White space devices connected to the AC power line are required to comply with the conducted limits set forth in ยง 15.207.
