
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.711 Interference avoidance methods.
####### Requirements for fixed white space devices.

(c)(1) The geographic coordinates of a fixed white space device shall be determined at the time of installation and first activation from a power off condition by an incorporated geo-location capability. The antenna height above ground shall be determined by the installer or operator of the device, or by an automatic means. This information shall be stored internally in the white space device and transmitted automatically by the device to the white space database. The operator of a fixed white space device shall be responsible for assuring the accuracy of the information registered in the white space database. If a fixed white space device is moved to another location or if its stored coordinates become altered, the operator shall reestablish the device's:

(i) Geographic location through the incorporated geo-location capability and the antenna height above ground level and store this information in the white space device; and

(ii) Registration with the database based on the device's new coordinates and antenna height above ground level.

(iii) A fixed white space device may obtain its geographic coordinates through an external geo-location source when it is used at a location where its internal geo-location capability does not function. An external geo-location source may be connected to a fixed device through either a wired or a wireless connection, and a single geo-location source may provide location information to multiple fixed devices. An external geo-location source must be connected to a fixed device using a secure connection that ensures that only an external geo-location source that has been approved with a particular fixed device can provide geographic coordinates to that device. The geographic coordinates must be provided automatically by the external geo-location source to the fixed device; users may not manually enter them. Alternatively, an extender cable may be used to connect a remote receive antenna to a geo-location receiver within a fixed device.

(iv) The applicant for certification of a fixed device must demonstrate the accuracy of the geo-location method used and the location uncertainty as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. For fixed devices that are not using an internal geo-location capability, this uncertainty must account for the accuracy of the geo-location source and the separation distance between such source and the white space device.

(2)(i) Each fixed white space device must access a white space database over the Internet to determine the available channels and the corresponding maximum permitted power for each available channel that is available at its geographic coordinates, taking into consideration the fixed device's antenna height above ground level and geo-location uncertainty, prior to its initial service transmission at a given location.

(ii) Operation is permitted only on channels and at power levels that are indicated in the database as being available for each white space device. Operation on a channel must cease immediately or power must be reduced to a permissible level if the database indicates that the channel is no longer available at the current operating level.

(iii) A fixed white space device shall access the database at least as frequently as specified in paragraph (h) of this section to verify that the operating channel(s) and corresponding power levels continue to remain available. The fixed device's registration information shall be updated if the geographic coordinates reported to the database differ by more than +/-50 meters from the previously registered coordinates.

(iv) Fixed devices without a direct connection to the Internet: A fixed white space device may not operate on channels provided by a white space database for another fixed device. A fixed white space device that has not yet been initialized and registered with a white space database consistent with ยง 15.713 of this part, but can receive the transmissions of another fixed white space device, may transmit to that other fixed white space device on either a channel that the other white space device has transmitted on or on a channel which the other white space device indicates is available for use to access the database to register its location and receive a list of channels that are available for it to use. Subsequently, the newly registered fixed white space device must only use the channels that the database indicates are available for it to use.
