
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.711 Interference avoidance methods.
####### Database re-check requirement.

(h)(1) Fixed and Mode II personal/portable devices, except for narrowband devices, operating in the television bands.

(i) A device that has been in a powered-on state shall access the white space database at least once every 60 minutes to verify that the operating channel(s) and associated maximum power levels continue to be available at its location. Devices shall adjust their channel usage in accordance with the most recent channel availability schedule information provided by the white space database for the two-hour period beginning at the time of the device last accessed the database for a list of available channels.

(ii) If a device fails to successfully contact the white space database, it may continue to operate until no longer than 120 minutes after the last successful contact, at which time it must cease operations until it reestablishes contact with the white space database and re-verifies its list of available channels and associated maximum power levels.

(2) Narrowband devices operating in the television bands and fixed and Mode II personal/portable devices operating outside of the television bands.

(i) A device that has been in a powered-on state shall access the database at least once a day to verify that the operating channel(s) and associated maximum power levels continue to be available at its location.

(ii) If a device fails to successfully contact the white space database during any given day, it may continue to operate until 11:59 p.m. of the following day at which time it must cease operations until it re-establishes contact with the white space database and re-verifies its list of available channels and corresponding power levels.
