
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.711 Interference avoidance methods.
####### Requirements for mobile white space devices.

(k)(1) Mobile white space devices shall operate within geo-fenced areas over which the white space database has determined channel availability. A mobile white space device shall have the capability to internally store the boundaries of a geo-fenced area and determine its location with respect to those boundaries. The area boundaries stored within a mobile white space device must be the same as those used by the white space database to determine channel availability.

(2) A mobile white space device shall incorporate a geo-location capability to determine its geographic coordinates. A mobile white space device may obtain its geographic coordinates through an external geo-location source, provided that source is on the same vehicle or other mobile platform as the mobile device. An external geo-location source may be connected to a mobile device through either a wired or a wireless connection, and a single geo-location source may provide location information to multiple mobile devices on the same mobile platform. An external geo-location source must be connected to a mobile device using a secure connection that ensures that only an external geo-location source that has been approved with a particular mobile device can provide geographic coordinates to that device. The geographic coordinates must be provided automatically by the external geo-location source to the mobile device; users may not manually enter them. Alternatively, an extender cable may be used to connect a remote receive antenna to a geo-location receiver within a mobile device.

(3) The applicant for certification of a mobile device must demonstrate the accuracy of the geo-location method used and the location uncertainty as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. For mobile devices that are not using an internal geo-location capability, this uncertainty must account for the accuracy of the geo-location source and the separation distance between such source and the white space device.

(4) The antenna height above ground shall be determined by the operator of the device, or by an automatic means. The mobile device shall provide this information to the white space database when it requests a list of available channels for the geo-fenced area in which it will operate.

(5) Each mobile device must access a white space database over the internet to determine the available channels and the maximum permitted power for each available channel within the geo-fenced area in which it will operate. The white space database must take into consideration the mobile device's antenna height above ground level and geo-location uncertainty in determining the list of available channels. It must also take into consideration any variation in mobile device HAAT throughout the geo-fenced area and must use the highest HAAT within the geo-fenced area in determining channel availability. Operation is permitted only on channels that are indicated by the database as being available at the same power level throughout the entire geo-fenced area in which the mobile device will operate.

(6) Mobile devices must comply with the same separation distances from protected services in ยง 15.712 as fixed devices.

(7) Mobile devices may use electrically steerable directional antennas, but a device's maximum EIRP in any direction must be used by the white space database in determining channel availability.
