
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.713 White space database.
####### Purpose.

(a)The white space database serves the following functions:

(1) To determine and provide to a white space device, upon request, the available channels at the white space device's location in the TV bands, the 600 MHz duplex gap, the 600 MHz service band, and 608-614 MHz (channel 37). Available channels are determined based on the interference protection requirements in ยง 15.712. A database must provide fixed, mobile, and Mode II personal portable white space devices with channel availability information that includes scheduled changes in channel availability over the course of the 48-hour period beginning at the time the white space devices make a recheck contact. In making lists of available channels available to a white space device, the white space database shall ensure that all communications and interactions between the white space database and the white space device include adequate security measures such that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the white space database or the list of available channels sent to white space devices or otherwise affect the database system or white space devices in performing their intended functions or in providing adequate interference protections to authorized services operating in the TV bands, the 600 MHz duplex gap, the 600 MHz service band, and 608-614 MHz (channel 37). In addition, a white space database must also verify that the FCC identifier (FCC ID) of a device seeking access to its services is valid; under the requirement in this paragraph (a)(1) the white space database must also verify that the FCC ID of a Mode I device provided by a fixed or Mode II device is valid. A list of devices with valid FCC IDs and the FCC IDs of those devices is to be obtained from the Commission's Equipment Authorization System.

(2) To determine and provide to an unlicensed wireless microphone user, upon request, the available channels at the microphone user's location in the 600 MHz guard bands, the 600 MHz duplex gap, and the 600 MHz service band. Available channels are determined based on the interference protection requirements in ยง 15.236.

(3) To register the identification information and location of fixed white space devices and unlicensed wireless microphone users.

(4) To register protected locations and channels as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that are not otherwise recorded in Commission licensing databases.
