
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.713 White space database.
####### White space device initialization.

(e)(1) Fixed, mobile, and Mode II white space devices must provide their location and required identifying information to the white space database in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.

(2) Fixed, mobile, and Mode II white space devices shall not transmit unless they receive, from the white space database, a list of available channels and may only transmit on the available channels on the list provided by the database.

(3) Fixed and mobile white space devices register and receive a list of available channels from the database by connecting to the internet, either directly or through another fixed white space device that has a direct connection to the internet. Fixed devices must also register with the database in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) Mode II white space devices receive a list of available channels from the database by connecting to the Internet, either directly or through a fixed or Mode II white space device that has a direct connection to the Internet.

(5) A fixed or Mode II white space device that provides a list of available channels to a Mode I device shall notify the database of the FCC identifier of such Mode I device and receive verification that that FCC identifier is valid before providing the list of available channels to the Mode I device.

(6) A fixed device with an antenna height above ground that exceeds 30 meters or an antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) that exceeds 250 meters generally, or 500 meters in less congested areas shall not be provided a list of available channels. The HAAT is to be calculated using computational software employing the methodology in ยง 73.684(d) of this chapter.
