
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### § 15.713 White space database.
####### White space database information.

(j)The white space database shall contain the listed information for each of the following:

(1) Digital television stations, digital and analog Class A, low power, translator and booster stations, including stations in Canada and Mexico that are within the border coordination areas as specified in § 73.1650 of this chapter (a white space database is to include only TV station information from station license or license application records. In cases where a station has records for both a license application and a license, a white space database should include the information from the license application rather than the license. In cases where there are multiple license application records or license records for the same station, the database is to include the most recent records, and again with license applications taking precedence over licenses.):

(i) Transmitter coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83);

(ii) radiated power (ERP);

(iii) Height above average terrain of the transmitting antenna (HAAT);

(iv) Horizontal transmit antenna pattern (if the antenna is directional);

(v) Amount of electrical and mechanical beam tilt (degrees depression below horizontal) and orientation of mechanical beam tilt (degrees azimuth clockwise from true north);

(vi) Channel number; and

(vii) Station call sign.

(2) Broadcast Auxiliary Service.

(i) Transmitter coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83).

(ii) Receiver coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83).

(iii) Channel number.

(iv) Call sign.

(3) Metropolitan areas listed in § 90.303(a) of this chapter.

(i) Region name.

(ii) Channel(s) reserved for use in the region.

(iii) Geographic center of the region (latitude and longitude in NAD 83).

(iv) Call sign.

(4) PLMRS/CMRS base station operations located more than 80 km from the geographic centers of the 13 metropolitan areas defined in § 90.303(a) of this chapter (e.g., in accordance with a waiver).

(i) Transmitter location (latitude and longitude in NAD 83) or geographic area of operations.

(ii) TV channel of operation.

(iii) Call sign.

(5) Offshore Radiotelephone Service: For each of the four regions where the Offshore Radiotelephone Service operates.

(i) Geographic boundaries of the region (latitude and longitude in NAD 83 for each point defining the boundary of the region.

(ii) Channel(s) used by the service in that region.

(6) MVPD receive sites: Registration for receive sites is limited to channels that are received over-the-air and are used as part of the MVPD service.

(i) Name and address of MVPD company;

(ii) Location of the MVPD receive site (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to +/-50 m);

(iii) Channel number of each television channel received, subject to the following condition: channels for which the MVPD receive site is located within the protected contour of that channel's transmitting station are not eligible for registration in the database;

(iv) Call sign of each television channel received and eligible for registration;

(v) Location (latitude and longitude) of the transmitter of each television channel received;

(7) Television translator, low power TV and Class A TV station receive sites: Registration for television translator, low power TV and Class A receive sites is limited to channels that are received over-the-air and are used as part of the station's service.

(i) Call sign of the TV translator station;

(ii) Location of the TV translator receive site (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to +/-/- 50 m);

(iii) Channel number of the re-transmitted television station, subject to the following condition: a channel for which the television translator receive site is located within the protected contour of that channel's transmitting station is not eligible for registration in the database;

(iv) Call sign of the retransmitted television station; and

(v) Location (latitude and longitude) of the transmitter of the retransmitted television station.

(8) Licensed low power auxiliary stations, including wireless microphones and wireless assist video devices: Use of licensed low power auxiliary stations at well-defined times and locations may be registered in the database. Multiple registrations that specify more than one point in the facility may be entered for very large sites. Registrations will be valid for no more than one year, after which they may be renewed. Registrations must include the following information:

(i) Name of the individual or business responsible for the low power auxiliary device(s);

(ii) An address for the contact person;

(iii) An email address for the contact person (optional);

(iv) A phone number for the contact person;

(v) Coordinates where the device(s) are used (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to +/-50 m);

(vi) Channels used by the low power auxiliary devices operated at the site;

(vii) Specific months, weeks, days of the week and times when the device(s) are used (on dates when microphones are not used the site will not be protected); and

(viii) The stations call sign.

(9) [Reserved]

(10) 600 MHz service in areas where the part 27 600 MHz band licensee has commenced operations, as defined in § 27.4 of this chapter:

(i) Name of 600 MHz band licensee;

(ii) Name and address of the contact person;

(iii) An email address for the contact person (optional);

(iv) A phone number for the contact person;

(v) Area within a part 27 600 MHz band licensee's Partial Economic Areas (PEA), as defined in § 27.6 of this chapter, where it has commenced operation. This area must be delineated by at minimum of eight and a maximum of 120 geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, accurate to +/-50 m);

(vi) Date of commencement of operations;

(vii) Identification of the frequencies on which the part 27 600 MHz band licensee has commenced operations;

(viii) Call sign.

(11) Location of health care facilities operating WMTS networks on channel 37 (608-614 MHz):

(i) Name and address of the health care facility;

(ii) Name and address of a contact person;

(iii) Phone number of a contact person;

(iv) Email address of a contact person;

(v) Latitude and longitude coordinates referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD 83) that define the perimeter of each facility. If several health care facilities using 608-614 MHz wireless medical telemetry equipment are located in close proximity, it is permissible to register a perimeter to protect all facilities in that cluster.
