
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### ยง 15.713 White space database.
####### Security.

(l)The white space database shall employ protocols and procedures to ensure that all communications and interactions between the white space database and white space devices are accurate and secure and that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the database or the list of available channels sent to a white space device.

(1) Communications between white space devices and white space databases, and between different white space databases, shall be secure to prevent corruption or unauthorized interception of data. A white space database shall be protected from unauthorized data input or alteration of stored data.

(2) A white space database shall verify that the FCC identification number supplied by a fixed, mobile, or personal/portable white space device is for a certified device and may not provide service to an uncertified device.

(3) A white space database must not provide lists of available channels to uncertified white space devices for purposes of operation (it is acceptable for a white space database to distribute lists of available channels by means other than contact with white space devices to provide list of channels for operation). To implement this provision, a white space database administrator shall obtain a list of certified white space devices from the FCC Equipment Authorization System.
