
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - White Space Devices
###### § 15.715 White space database administrator.

The Commission will designate one or more entities to administer the white space database(s). The Commission may, at its discretion, permit the functions of a white space database, such as a data repository, registration, and query services, to be divided among multiple entities; however, it will designate specific entities to be a database administrator responsible for coordination of the overall functioning of a database and providing services to white space devices. Each database administrator designated by the Commission shall:

(a) Maintain a database that contains the information described in § 15.713.

(b) Establish a process for acquiring and storing in the database necessary and appropriate information from the Commission's databases and synchronizing the database with the current Commission databases at least once a week to include newly licensed facilities or any changes to licensed facilities.

(c) Establish a process for registering fixed white space devices and registering and including in the database facilities entitled to protection but not contained in a Commission database, including MVPD receive sites.

(d) Establish a process for registering facilities where part 74 low power auxiliary stations are used on a regular basis.

(e) Provide accurate lists of available channels and the corresponding maximum permitted power for each available channel to fixed, mobile, and personal/portable white space devices that submit to it the information required under § 15.713(e), (g), and (h) based on their geographic location and provide accurate lists of available channels and the corresponding maximum permitted power for each available channel to fixed, mobile, and Mode II devices requesting lists of available channels for Mode I devices. Database administrators may allow prospective operators of white space devices to query the database and determine whether there are vacant channels at a particular location.

(f) Establish protocols and procedures to ensure that all communications and interactions between the white space database and white space devices are accurate and secure and that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the database or the list of available channels sent to a white space device consistent with the provisions of § 15.713(l).

(g) Make its services available to all unlicensed white space device users on a non-discriminatory basis.

(h) Provide service for a five-year term. This term can be renewed at the Commission's discretion.

(i) Respond in a timely manner to verify, correct and/or remove, as appropriate, data in the event that the Commission or a party brings claim of inaccuracies in the database to its attention. This requirement applies only to information that the Commission requires to be stored in the database.

(j) Transfer its database along with the IP addresses and URLs used to access the database and list of registered fixed white space devices, to another designated entity in the event it does not continue as the database administrator at the end of its term. It may charge a reasonable price for such conveyance.

(k) The database must have functionality such that upon request from the Commission it can indicate that no channels are available when queried by a specific white space device or model of white space devices.

(l) If more than one database is developed, the database administrators shall cooperate to develop a standardized process for providing on a daily basis or more often, as appropriate, the data collected for the facilities listed in § 15.713(b)(2) to all other white space databases to ensure consistency in the records of protected facilities. In response to a request for immediate access to a channel by a licensed wireless microphone user, white space database administrators are required to share the licensed microphone channel registration information to all other white space database administrators within 10 minutes of receiving each wireless microphone registration.

(m) Provide a means to make publicly available all information the rules require the database to contain, including fixed white space device registrations and voluntarily submitted protected entity information, except the information provided by 600 MHz band licensees pursuant to § 15.713(j)(10)(v) and (vi) of this part shall not be made publicly available.

(n) Establish procedures to allow part 27 600 MHz service licensees to upload the registration information listed in § 15.713(j)(10) for areas where they have commenced operations, as defined in § 27.4 of this chapter, and to allow the removal and replacement of registration information in the database when corrections or updates are necessary.

(o) Remove from the database the registrations of fixed white space devices that have not checked the database for at least three months to update their channel lists. A database administrator may charge a new registration fee for a fixed white space device that is removed from the database under this provision but is later re-registered.

(p) Establish procedures to allow health care facilities to register the locations of facilities where they operate WMTS networks on channel 37.

(q) Establish procedures to allow unlicensed wireless microphone users in the 600 MHz band to register with the database and to provide lists of channels available for wireless microphones at a given location.
