
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CONSTRUCTION, MARKING, AND LIGHTING OF ANTENNA STRUCTURES
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 17.4 Antenna structure registration.

(a) The owner of any proposed or existing antenna structure that requires notice of proposed construction to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) due to physical obstruction must register the structure with the Commission. (See ยง 17.7 for FAA notification requirements.) This includes those structures used as part of stations licensed by the Commission for the transmission of radio energy, or to be used as part of a cable television head end system. If a Federal Government antenna structure is to be used by a Commission licensee, the structure must be registered with the Commission. If the FAA exempts an antenna structure from notification, it is exempt from the requirement that it register with the Commission. (See ยง 17.7(e) for exemptions to FAA notification requirements.)

(1) For a proposed antenna structure or alteration of an existing antenna structure, the owner must register the structure prior to construction or alteration.

(2) For a structure that did not originally fall under the definition of "antenna structure," the owner must register the structure prior to hosting a Commission licensee.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each owner of an antenna structure described in paragraph (a) of this section must electronically file FCC Form 854 with the Commission. Additionally, each owner of a proposed structure referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must submit a valid FAA determination of "no hazard." In order to be considered valid by the Commission, the FAA determination of "no hazard" must not have expired prior to the date on which FCC Form 854 is received by the Commission. The height of the structure will be the highest point of the structure including any obstruction lighting or lightning arrester. If an antenna structure is not required to be registered under paragraph (a) of this section and it is voluntarily registered with the Commission after October 24, 2014, the registrant must note on FCC Form 854 that the registration is voluntary. Voluntarily registered antenna structures are not subject to the lighting and marking requirements contained in this part.

(c) Each prospective applicant must complete the environmental notification process described in this paragraph, except as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
