
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CONSTRUCTION, MARKING, AND LIGHTING OF ANTENNA STRUCTURES
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 17.4 Antenna structure registration.
####### Transition rule.

(9)An antenna structure registration application that is pending with the Commission as of the effective date of this paragraph (c) shall not be required to complete the environmental notification process set forth in this paragraph. The Commission will publish a document in theannouncing the effective date. However, if such an application is amended in a manner that would require additional notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section, then such notice shall be required.

(d) If a final FAA determination of "no hazard" is not submitted along with FCC Form 854, processing of the registration may be delayed or disapproved.

(e) If the owner of the antenna structure cannot file FCC Form 854 because it is subject to a denial of Federal benefits under the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, 21 U.S.C. 862, the first tenant licensee authorized to locate on the structure (excluding tenants that no longer occupy the structure) must register the structure electronically using FCC Form 854, and provide a copy of the Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) to the owner. The owner remains responsible for providing to all tenant licensees and permittees notification that the structure has been registered, consistent with paragraph (f) of this section, and for posting the registration number as required by paragraph (g) of this section.
