
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CONSTRUCTION, MARKING, AND LIGHTING OF ANTENNA STRUCTURES
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 17.4 Antenna structure registration.
####### http://wireless.fcc.gov/antenna/.

(f) The Commission shall issue to the registrant FCC Form 854R, Antenna Structure Registration, which assigns a unique Antenna Structure Registration Number. The antenna structure owner shall immediately provide to all tenant licensees and permittees notification that the structure has been registered, along with either a copy of Form 854R or the Antenna Structure Registration Number and a link to the FCC antenna structure website:This notification must be done electronically.

(g) Except as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the Antenna Structure Registration Number must be displayed so that it is conspicuously visible and legible from the publicly accessible area nearest the base of the antenna structure along the publicly accessible roadway or path. Where an antenna structure is surrounded by a perimeter fence, or where the point of access includes an access gate, the Antenna Structure Registration Number should be posted on the perimeter fence or access gate. Where multiple antenna structures having separate Antenna Structure Registration Numbers are located within a single fenced area, the Antenna Structure Registration Numbers must be posted both on the perimeter fence or access gate and near the base of each antenna structure. If the base of the antenna structure has more than one point of access, the Antenna Structure Registration Number must be posted so that it is visible at the publicly accessible area nearest each such point of access. Materials used to display the Antenna Structure Registration Number must be weather-resistant and of sufficient size to be easily seen where posted.

(h) The owner is not required to post the Antenna Structure Registration Number in cases where a federal, state, or local government entity provides written notice to the owner that such a posting would detract from the appearance of a historic landmark. In this case, the owner must make the Antenna Structure Registration Number available to representatives of the Commission, the FAA, and the general public upon reasonable demand.

(i) Absent Commission specification, the painting and lighting specifications recommended by the FAA are mandatory (see ยง 17.23). However, the Commission may specify painting and/or lighting requirements for each antenna structure registration in addition to or different from those specified by the FAA.

(j) Any change or correction in the overall height of one foot or greater or coordinates of one second or greater in longitude or latitude of a registered antenna structure requires prior approval from the FAA and modification of the existing registration with the Commission.

(k) Any change in the marking and lighting that varies from the specifications described on any antenna structure registration requires prior approval from the FAA and the Commission.
