
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Rules of Practice and Procedure
###### Miscellaneous Proceedings
####### ยง 1.80 Forfeiture proceedings.
######## Notice of opportunity for hearing.

(h)The procedures set out in this paragraph apply only when a formal hearing under section 503(b)(3)(A) of the Communications Act is being held to determine whether to assess a forfeiture penalty.

(1) Before imposing a forfeiture penalty, the Commission may, in its discretion, issue a notice of opportunity for hearing. The formal hearing proceeding shall be conducted by an administrative law judge under procedures set out in subpart B of this part, including procedures for appeal and review of initial decisions. A final Commission order assessing a forfeiture under the provisions of this paragraph is subject to judicial review under section 402(a) of the Communications Act.

(2) If, after a forfeiture penalty is imposed and not appealed or after a court enters final judgment in favor of the Commission, the forfeiture is not paid, the Commission will refer the matter to the Department of Justice for collection. In an action to recover the forfeiture, the validity and appropriateness of the order imposing the forfeiture are not subject to review.

(3) Where the possible assessment of a forfeiture is an issue in a hearing proceeding to determine whether a pending application should be granted, and the application is dismissed pursuant to a settlement agreement or otherwise, and the presiding judge has not made a determination on the forfeiture issue, the presiding judge shall forward the order of dismissal to the attention of the full Commission. Within the time provided by ยง 1.117, the Commission may, on its own motion, proceed with a determination of whether a forfeiture against the applicant is warranted. If the Commission so proceeds, it will provide the applicant with a reasonable opportunity to respond to the forfeiture issue (see paragraph (f)(3) of this section) and make a determination under the procedures outlined in paragraph (f) of this section.
