
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 20 - COMMERCIAL MOBILE SERVICES
##### ยง 20.20 Conditions applicable to provision of CMRS service by incumbent Local Exchange Carriers.
###### Separate affiliate.

(a)An incumbent LEC providing in-region broadband CMRS shall provide such services through an affiliate that satisfies the following requirements:

(1) The affiliate shall maintain separate books of account from its affiliated incumbent LEC. Nothing in this section requires the affiliate to maintain separate books of account that comply with part 32 of this chapter;

(2) The affiliate shall not jointly own transmission or switching facilities with its affiliated incumbent LEC that the affiliated incumbent LEC uses for the provision of local exchange service in the same in-region market. Nothing in this section prohibits the affiliate from sharing personnel or other resources or assets with its affiliated incumbent LEC; and

(3) The affiliate shall acquire any services from its affiliated incumbent LEC for which the affiliated incumbent LEC is required to file a tariff at tariffed rates, terms, and conditions. Other transactions between the affiliate and the incumbent LEC for services that are not acquired pursuant to tariff must be reduced to writing and must be made on a compensatory, arm's length basis. All transactions between the incumbent LEC and the affiliate are subject to part 32 of this chapter, including the affiliate transaction rules. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the affiliate from acquiring any unbundled network elements or exchange services for the provision of a telecommunications service from its affiliated incumbent LEC, subject to the same terms and conditions as provided in an agreement approved under section 252 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
