
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Rules of Practice and Procedure
###### Reconsideration and Review of Actions Taken by the Commission and Pursuant to Delegated Authority; Effective Dates and Finality Dates of Actions
####### ยง 1.115 Application for review of action taken pursuant to delegated authority.

(a) Any person aggrieved by any action taken pursuant to delegated authority may file an application requesting review of that action by the Commission. Any person filing an application for review who has not previously participated in the proceeding shall include with his application a statement describing with particularity the manner in which he is aggrieved by the action taken and showing good reason why it was not possible for him to participate in the earlier stages of the proceeding. Any application for review which fails to make an adequate showing in this respect will be dismissed.

(b)(1) The application for review shall concisely and plainly state the questions presented for review with reference, where appropriate, to the findings of fact or conclusions of law.

(2) The application for review shall specify with particularity, from among the following, the factor(s) which warrant Commission consideration of the questions presented:

(i) The action taken pursuant to delegated authority is in conflict with statute, regulation, case precedent, or established Commission policy.

(ii) The action involves a question of law or policy which has not previously been resolved by the Commission.

(iii) The action involves application of a precedent or policy which should be overturned or revised.

(iv) An erroneous finding as to an important or material question of fact.

(v) Prejudicial procedural error.

(3) The application for review shall state with particularity the respects in which the action taken by the designated authority should be changed.

(4) The application for review shall state the form of relief sought and, subject to this requirement, may contain alternative requests.

(c) No application for review will be granted if it relies on questions of fact or law upon which the designated authority has been afforded no opportunity to pass.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section and in ยง 0.461(j) of this chapter, the application for review and any supplemental thereto shall be filed within 30 days of public notice of such action, as that date is defined in ยง 1.4(b). Opposition to the application shall be filed within 15 days after the application for review is filed. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, replies to oppositions shall be filed within 10 days after the opposition is filed and shall be limited to matters raised in the opposition.

(e)(1) Applications for review of an order designating a matter for hearing that was issued under delegated authority shall be deferred until exceptions to the initial decision in the case are filed, unless the presiding officer certifies such an application for review to the Commission. A matter shall be certified to the Commission if the presiding officer determines that the matter involves a controlling question of law as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion and that immediate consideration of the question would materially expedite the ultimate resolution of the litigation. A request to certify a matter to the Commission shall be filed with the presiding officer within 5 days after the designation order is released. A ruling refusing to certify a matter to the Commission is not appealable. Any application for review authorized by the presiding officer shall be filed within 5 days after the order certifying the matter to the Commission is released or such a ruling is made. Oppositions shall be filed within 5 days after the application for review is filed. Replies to oppositions shall be filed only if they are requested by the Commission. Replies (if allowed) shall be filed within 5 days after they are requested. The Commission may dismiss, without stating reasons, an application for review that has been certified, and direct that the objections to the order designating the matter for hearing be deferred and raised when exceptions in the initial decision in the case are filed.
