
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Rules of Practice and Procedure
###### Reconsideration and Review of Actions Taken by the Commission and Pursuant to Delegated Authority; Effective Dates and Finality Dates of Actions
####### § 1.115 Application for review of action taken pursuant to delegated authority.
######## e.g.,

(2) Applications for review of final staff decisions issued on delegated authority in formal complaint proceedings on the Enforcement Bureau's Accelerated Docket (see,§ 1.730) shall be filed within 15 days of public notice of the decision, as that date is defined in § 1.4(b). These applications for review oppositions and replies in Accelerated Docket proceedings shall be served on parties to the proceeding by hand or facsimile transmission.

(f) Applications for review, oppositions, and replies shall conform to the requirements of §§ 1.49, 1.51, and 1.52, and shall be submitted to the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. Except as provided below, applications for review and oppositions thereto shall not exceed 25 double-space typewritten pages. Applications for review of interlocutory actions in hearing proceedings (including designation orders) and oppositions thereto shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages. When permitted (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section), reply pleadings shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages. The application for review shall be served upon the parties to the proceeding. Oppositions to the application for review shall be served on the person seeking review and on parties to the proceeding. When permitted (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section), replies to the opposition(s) to the application for review shall be served on the person(s) opposing the application for review and on parties to the proceeding.

(g) The Commission may grant the application for review in whole or in part, or it may deny the application with or without specifying reasons therefor. A petition requesting reconsideration of a ruling which denies an application for review will be entertained only if one or more of the following circumstances is present:

(1) The petition relies on facts which related to events which have occurred or circumstances which have changed since the last opportunity to present such matters; or

(2) The petition relies on facts unknown to petitioner until after his last opportunity to present such matters which could not, through the exercise of ordinary diligence, have been learned prior to such opportunity.

(h)(1) If the Commission grants the application for review in whole or in part, it may, in its decision:

(i) Simultaneously reverse or modify the order from which review is sought;

(ii) Remand the matter to the designated authority for reconsideration in accordance with its instructions, and, if an evidentiary hearing has been held, the remand may be to the person(s) who conducted the hearing; or

(iii) Order such other proceedings, including briefs and oral argument, as may be necessary or appropriate.

(2) In the event the Commission orders further proceedings, it may stay the effect of the order from which review is sought. (See § 1.102.) Following the completion of such further proceedings the Commission may affirm, reverse or modify the order from which review is sought, or it may set aside the order and remand the matter to the designated authority for reconsideration in accordance with its instructions. If an evidentiary hearing has been held, the Commission may remand the matter to the person(s) who conducted the hearing for rehearing on such issues and in accordance with such instructions as may be appropriate.

(i) An order of the Commission which reverses or modifies the action taken pursuant to delegated authority is subject to the same provisions with respect to reconsideration as an original order of the Commission. In no event, however, shall a ruling which denies an application for review be considered a modification of the action taken pursuant to delegated authority.

(j) No evidence other than newly discovered evidence, evidence which has become available only since the original taking of evidence, or evidence which the Commission believes should have been taken in the original proceeding shall be taken on any rehearing ordered pursuant to the provisions of this section.

(k) The filing of an application for review shall be a condition precedent to judicial review of any action taken pursuant to delegated authority.
