
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### Participants and Issues
####### ยง 1.221 Notice of hearing; appearances.

(a) Upon designation of an application for hearing, the Commission issues an order containing the following:

(1) A statement as to the reasons for the Commission's action.

(2) A statement as to the matters of fact and law involved, and the issues upon which the application will be heard.

(3) A statement as to the time, place, and nature of the hearing. (If the time and place are not specified, the order will indicate that the time and place will be specified at a later date.)

(4) A statement as to the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held.

(b) The order designating an application for hearing shall be mailed to the applicant and the order, or a summary thereof, shall be published in theReasonable notice of hearing will be given to the parties in all proceedings.

(c) In order to avail themselves of the opportunity to be heard, applicants or their attorney shall file, within 20 days of the mailing of the order designating a matter for hearing, a written appearance stating that the applicant will present evidence on the matters specified in the order and, if required by the order, appear before the presiding officer at a date and time to be determined. Where an applicant fails to file such a written appearance within the time specified, or has not filed prior to the expiration of that time a petition to dismiss without prejudice, or a petition to accept, for good cause shown, such written appearance beyond expiration of said 20 days, the application will be dismissed with prejudice for failure to prosecute.

(d) The Commission will on its own motion name as parties to the hearing proceeding any person found to be a party in interest.

(e) In order to avail themselves of the opportunity to be heard, any persons named as parties pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall, within 20 days of the mailing of the order designating them as parties to a hearing proceeding, file personally or by attorney a written appearance that they will present evidence on the matters specified in the order and, if required by the order, appear before the presiding officer at a date and time to be determined. Any persons so named who fail to file this written appearance within the time specified, shall, unless good cause for such failure is shown, forfeit their hearing rights.

(f)(1) For program carriage complaints filed pursuant to ยง 76.1302 of this chapter that the Chief, Media Bureau refers to a presiding officer, each party, in person or by attorney, shall file a written appearance within five calendar days after the party informs the presiding officer that it elects not to pursue alternative dispute resolution pursuant to ยง 76.7(g)(2) of this chapter or, if the parties have mutually elected to pursue alternative dispute resolution pursuant to ยง 76.7(g)(2) of this chapter, within five calendar days after the parties inform the presiding officer that they have failed to resolve their dispute through alternative dispute resolution. The written appearance shall state that the party will appear for hearing and present evidence on the issues specified in the hearing designation order.

(2) If the complainant fails to file a written appearance by this deadline, or fails to file prior to the deadline either a petition to dismiss the proceeding without prejudice or a petition to accept, for good cause shown, a written appearance beyond such deadline, the presiding officer shall dismiss the complaint with prejudice for failure to prosecute.

(3) If the defendant fails to file a written appearance by this deadline, or fails to file prior to this deadline a petition to accept, for good cause shown, a written appearance beyond such deadline, its opportunity to present evidence at hearing will be deemed to have been waived. If the hearing is so waived, the presiding officer shall expeditiously terminate the proceeding and certify to the Commission the complaint for resolution based on the existing record. When the Commission has designated itself as the presiding officer, it shall expeditiously terminate the proceeding and resolve the complaint based on the existing record.
