
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 22 - PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Operational and Technical Requirements
###### Technical Requirements
####### § 22.353 Blanketing interference.

Licensees of Public Mobile Services stations are responsible for resolving cases of blanketing interference in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, licensees must resolve any cases of blanketing interference in their area of responsibility caused by operation of their transmitter(s) during a one-year period following commencement of service from new or modified transmitter(s). Interference must be resolved promptly at no cost to the complainant.

(b) The area of responsibility is that area in the immediate vicinity of the transmitting antenna of stations where the field strength of the electromagnetic radiation from such stations equals or exceeds 115 dBµV/m. To determine the radial distance to the boundary of this area, the following formula must be used:

(c) Licensees are not required to resolve blanketing interference to mobile receivers or non-RF devices or blanketing interference occurring as a result of malfunctioning or mistuned receivers, improperly installed consumer antenna systems, or the use of high gain antennas or antenna booster amplifiers by consumers.

(d) Licensees that install transmitting antennas at a location where there are already one or more transmitting antennas are responsible for resolving any new cases of blanketing interference in accordance with this section.

(e) Two or more licensees that concurrently install transmitting antennas at the same location are jointly responsible for resolving blanketing interference cases, unless the FCC can readily determine which station is causing the interference, in which case the licensee of that station is held fully responsible.

(f) After the one year period of responsibility to resolve blanketing interference, licensees must provide upon request technical information to complainants on remedies for blanketing interference.
