
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 22 - PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Paging and Radiotelephone Service
###### Point-to-Point Operation
####### ยง 22.602 Transition of the 2110-2130 and 2160-2180 MHz channels to emerging technologies.

The 2110-2130 and 2160-2180 MHz microwave channels formerly listed in ยง 22.591 have been re-allocated for use by emerging technologies (ET) services. No new systems will be authorized under this part. The rules in this section provide for a transition period during which existing Paging and Radiotelephone Service (PARS) licensees using these channels may relocate operations to other media or to other fixed channels, including those in other microwave bands. For PARS licensees relocating operations to other microwave bands, authorization must be obtained under part 101 of this chapter.

(a) Licensees proposing to implement ET services may negotiate with PARS licensees authorized to use these channels, for the purpose of agreeing to terms under which the PARS licensees would-

(1) Relocate their operations to other fixed microwave bands or other media, or alternatively,

(2) Accept a sharing arrangement with the ET licensee that may result in an otherwise impermissible level of interference to the PARS operations.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Relocation of fixed microwave licensees in the 2110-2130 MHz and 2160-2180 MHz bands will be subject to mandatory negotiations only. A separate mandatory negotiation period will commence for each fixed microwave licensee when an ET licensee informs that fixed microwave licensee in writing of its desire to negotiate. Mandatory negotiation periods are defined as follows:

(1) Non-public safety incumbents will have a two-year mandatory negotiation period; and

(2) Public safety incumbents will have a three-year mandatory negotiation period.
