
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 22 - PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Paging and Radiotelephone Service
###### Point-to-Point Operation
####### ยง 22.602 Transition of the 2110-2130 and 2160-2180 MHz channels to emerging technologies.
######## Involuntary period.

(e)After the end of the mandatory negotiation period, ET licensees may initiate involuntary relocation procedures under the Commission's rules. ET licensees are obligated to pay to relocate only the specific microwave links to which their systems pose an interference problem. Under involuntary relocation, a PARS licensee is required to relocate, provided that:

(1) The ET applicant, provider, licensee or representative guarantees payment of relocation costs, including all engineering, equipment, site and FCC fees, as well as any legitimate and prudent transaction expenses incurred by the PARS licensee that are directly attributable to an involuntary relocation, subject to a cap of two percent of the hard costs involved. Hard costs are defined as the actual costs associated with providing a replacement system, such as equipment and engineering expenses. ET licensees are not required to pay PARS licensees for internal resources devoted to the relocation process. ET licensees are not required to pay for transaction costs incurred by PARS licensees during the voluntary or mandatory periods once the involuntary period is initiated or for fees that cannot be legitimately tied to the provision of comparable facilities;

(2) The ET applicant, provider, licensee or representative completes all activities necessary for implementing the replacement facilities, including engineering and cost analysis of the relocation procedure and, if radio facilities are involved, identifying and obtaining, on the incumbents behalf, new channels and frequency coordination; and,

(3) The ET applicant, provider, licensee or representative builds the replacement system and tests it for comparability with the existing 2 GHz system.
