
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 22 - PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Paging and Radiotelephone Service
###### Point-to-Point Operation
####### ยง 22.602 Transition of the 2110-2130 and 2160-2180 MHz channels to emerging technologies.
######## Operating Costs.

(3)Operating costs are the cost to operate and maintain the PARS system. ET licensees must compensate PARS licensees for any increased recurring costs associated with the replacement facilities (e.g. additional rental payments, increased utility fees) for five years after relocation. ET licensees may satisfy this obligation by making a lump-sum payment based on present value using current interest rates. Additionally, the maintenance costs to the PARS licensee must be equivalent to the 2 GHz system in order for the replacement system to be considered comparable.

(g) The PARS licensee is not required to relocate until the alternative facilities are available to it for a reasonable time to make adjustments, determine comparability, and ensure a seamless handoff.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) After April 25, 1996, all major modifications and extensions to existing PARS systems operating on channels in the 2110-2130 and 2160-2180 MHz bands will be authorized on a secondary basis to future ET operations. All other modifications will render the modified PARS license secondary to future ET operations unless the incumbent affirmatively justifies primary status and the incumbent PARS licensee establishes that the modification would not add to the relocation costs of ET licensees. Incumbent PARS licensees will maintain primary status for the following technical changes:

(1) Decreases in power;

(2) Minor changes (increases or decreases) in antenna height;

(3) Minor location changes (up to two seconds);

(4) Any data correction which does not involve a change in the location of an existing facility;

(5) Reductions in authorized bandwidth;

(6) Minor changes (increases or decreases) in structure height;

(7) Changes (increases or decreases) in ground elevation that do not affect centerline height;

(8) Minor equipment changes.
