
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### Hearing and Intermediate Decision
####### § 1.251 Summary decision.

(a)(1) Any party to an adjudicatory proceeding may move for summary decision of all or any of the issues designated for hearing. The motion shall be filed at least 20 days prior to the date set for commencement of the hearing or, in hearing proceedings conducted pursuant to §§ 1.370 through 1.377, at least 20 days before the date that the presiding officer sets as the deadline for filing the affirmative case. See § 1.372. The party filing the motion may not rest upon mere allegations or denials but must show, by affidavit or by other materials subject to consideration by the presiding officer, that there is no genuine issue of material fact for determination in the hearing proceeding.

(2) A party may file a motion for summary decision after the deadlines in paragraph (a)(1) of this section only with the presiding officer's permission, or upon the presiding officer's invitation. No appeal from an order granting or denying a request for permission to file a motion for summary decision shall be allowed. If the presiding officer authorizes a motion for summary decision after the deadlines in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law on those issues which the moving party believes can be resolved shall be attached to the motion, and any other party may file findings of fact and conclusions of law as an attachment to pleadings filed by the party pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Motions for summary decision should be addressed to the Commission in any hearing proceeding in which the Commission is the presiding officer and it has appointed a case manager pursuant to § 1.242. The Commission, in its discretion, may defer ruling on any such motion until after the case manager has certified the record for decision by the Commission pursuant to § 1.377.

(b) Within 14 days after a motion for summary decision is filed, any other party to the proceeding may file an opposition or a countermotion for summary decision. A party opposing the motion may not rest upon mere allegations or denials but must show, by affidavit or by other materials subject to consideration by the presiding officer, that there is a genuine issue of material fact for determination at the hearing, that he cannot, for good cause, present by affidavit or otherwise facts essential to justify his opposition, or that summary decision is otherwise inappropriate.

(c) Affidavits shall be made on personal knowledge, shall set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein.

(d) The presiding officer may, in his or her discretion, set the matter for argument and may call for the submission of proposed findings, conclusions, briefs or memoranda of law. The presiding officer, giving appropriate weight to the nature of the proceeding, the issue or issues, the proof, and the need for cross-examination, if any, may grant a motion for summary decision to the extent that the pleadings, affidavits, materials obtained by discovery or otherwise, admissions, or matters officially noticed, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that a party is otherwise entitled to summary decision. If it appears from the affidavits of a party opposing the motion that the party cannot, for good cause shown, present by affidavit or otherwise facts essential to justify the party's opposition, the presiding officer may deny the motion, may order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make such other order as is just.

(e) If all of the issues (or a dispositive issue) are determined on a motion for summary decision, the hearing proceeding shall be terminated. When a presiding officer (other than the Commission) issues a Summary Decision, it is subject to appeal or review in the same manner as an Initial Decision. See §§ 1.271 through 1.282. If some of the issues only (including no dispositive issue) are decided on a motion for summary decision, or if the motion is denied, the presiding officer will issue a memorandum opinion and order, interlocutory in character, and the hearing proceeding will continue on the remaining issues. Appeal from interlocutory rulings is governed by § 1.301.

(f) The presiding officer may take any action deemed necessary to assure that summary decision procedures are not abused. The presiding officer may rule in advance of a motion that the proceeding is not appropriate for summary decision, and may take such other measures as are necessary to prevent any unwarranted delay.

(1) Should it appear to the satisfaction of the presiding officer that a motion for summary decision has been presented in bad faith or solely for the purpose of delay, or that such a motion is patently frivolous, the presiding officer will enter a determination to that effect upon the record.

(2) If, on making such determination, the presiding officer concludes that the facts warrant disciplinary action against an attorney, the matter, together with any findings and recommendations, will be referred to the Commission for consideration under § 1.24.

(3) If, on making such determination, the presiding officer concludes that the facts warrant a finding of bad faith on the part of a party to the proceeding, the presiding officer will certify the matter to the Commission, with findings and recommendations, for a determination as to whether the facts warrant the addition of an issue to the hearing proceeding as to the character qualifications of that party.
