
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 22 - PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Cellular Radiotelephone Service
###### ยง 22.911 Cellular geographic service area.
####### CGSA determination (non-PSD).

(a)For the purpose of calculating the SABs for cell sites and determining CGSA expansion areas for Cellular base stations that do not operate using PSD (as permitted under ยง 22.913), the distance to the SAB is calculated as a function of effective radiated power (ERP) and antenna center of radiation height above average terrain (HAAT), height above sea level (HASL), or height above mean sea level (HAMSL).

(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, the distance from a cell transmitting antenna to its SAB along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:

(2) The distance from a cell transmitting antenna located in the Gulf of Mexico Service Area (GMSA) to its SAB along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:

(3) The value used for h in the formula in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must not be less than 8 meters (26 feet) HASL (or HAMSL, as appropriate for the support structure). The value used for h in the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must not be less than 30 meters (98 feet) HAAT, except that for unserved area applications proposing a cell with an ERP not exceeding 10 Watts, the value for h used in the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to determine the service area boundary for that cell may be less than 30 meters (98 feet) HAAT, but not less than 3 meters (10 feet) HAAT.

(4) The value used for p in the formulas in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section must not be less than 0.1 Watt or 27 dB less than (1/500 of) the maximum ERP in any direction, whichever is more.

(5) Whenever use of the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section pursuant to the exception contained in paragraph (a)(3) of this section results in a calculated distance that is less than 5.4 kilometers (3.4 miles), the radial distance to the service area boundary is deemed to be 5.4 kilometers (3.4 miles).

(6) The distance from a cell transmitting antenna to the SAB along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle.
