
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### Interlocutory Actions in Hearing Proceedings
####### § 1.291 General provisions.

(a)(1) The Commission acts on petitions to amend, modify, enlarge or delete the issues in hearing proceedings which involve rule making matters exclusively.

(2) All other interlocutory matters in hearing proceedings are acted on by the presiding officer.

(3) Each interlocutory pleading shall identify the presiding officer in its caption. Unless the pleading is to be acted upon by the Commission, the presiding officer shall be identified by name.

(b) All interlocutory pleadings shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1.4, 1.44, 1.47, 1.48, 1.49, 1.50, 1.51, and 1.52.

(c)(1) Procedural rules governing interlocutory pleadings are set forth in §§ 1.294 through 1.298.

(2) Rules governing appeal from, and reconsideration of, interlocutory rulings made by the presiding officer are set forth in § 1.301.

(3) Petitions requesting reconsideration of an interlocutory ruling will not be entertained.

(d) No initial decision shall become effective under § 1.276(e) until all interlocutory matters pending before the Commission in the proceeding at the time the initial decision is issued have been disposed of and the time allowed for appeal from interlocutory rulings of the presiding officer has expired.
