
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 22 - PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Cellular Radiotelephone Service
###### ยง 22.972 Interference resolution procedures.
####### Mitigation steps.

(c)(1) All Cellular Radiotelephone and part 90 of this chapter-800 MHz cellular system licensees who are responsible for causing unacceptable interference shall take all affirmative measures to resolve such interference. Cellular Radiotelephone licensees found to contribute to unacceptable interference, as defined in ยง 22.970, shall resolve such interference in the shortest time practicable. Cellular Radiotelephone licensees and part 90 of this chapter-800 MHz cellular system licensees must provide all necessary test apparatus and technical personnel skilled in the operation of such equipment as may be necessary to determine the most appropriate means of timely eliminating the interference. However, the means whereby interference is abated or the cell parameters that may need to be adjusted is left to the discretion of the Cellular Radiotelephone and/or part 90 of this chapter-800 MHz cellular system licensees, whose affirmative measures may include, but not be limited to, the following techniques:

(i) Increasing the desired power of the public safety/CII signal;

(ii) Decreasing the power of the part 90 ESMR and/or Cellular Radiotelephone system signal;

(iii) Modifying the part 90 ESMR and/or Cellular Radiotelephone system antenna height;

(iv) Modifying the part 90 ESMR and/or Cellular Radiotelephone system antenna characteristics;

(v) Incorporating filters into part 90 ESMR and/or Cellular Radiotelephone transmission equipment;

(vi) Permanently changing part 90 ESMR and/or Cellular Radiotelephone frequencies; and

(vii) Supplying interference-resistant receivers to the affected public safety/CII licensee(s). If this technique is used, in all circumstances, Cellular Radiotelephone and/or part 90 of this chapter ESMR licensees shall be responsible for all costs thereof.

(2) Whenever short-term interference abatement measures prove inadequate, the affected part 90 of this chapter non-cellular licensee shall, consistent with but not compromising safety, make all necessary concessions to accepting interference until a longer-term remedy can be implemented.
