
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### Appeal and Reconsideration of Presiding Officer's Ruling
####### ยง 1.301 Appeal from interlocutory rulings by a presiding officer, other than the Commission, or a case manager; effective date of ruling.
######## Other interlocutory rulings.,Provided, however,

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, appeals from interlocutory rulings shall be filed only if allowed by the presiding officer. Any party desiring to file an appeal shall first file a request for permission to file appeal. The request shall be filed within 5 days after the order is released or (if no written order) after the ruling is made. Pleadings responsive to the request shall be filed only if they are requested by the presiding officer. If the presiding officer made the ruling, the request shall contain a showing that the appeal presents a new or novel question of law or policy and that the ruling is such that error would be likely to require remand should the appeal be deferred and raised as an exception. If a case manager made the ruling, the request shall contain a showing that the appeal presents a question of law or policy that the case manager lacks authority to resolve. The presiding officer shall determine whether the showing is such as to justify an interlocutory appeal and, in accordance with his determination, will either allow or disallow the appeal or modify the ruling. Such ruling is final:That the Commission may, on its own motion, dismiss an appeal allowed under this section on the ground that objection to the ruling should be deferred and raised after the record is certified for decision by the Commission or as an exception to an initial decision.

(1) If an appeal is not allowed, or is dismissed by the Commission, or if permission to file an appeal is not requested, objection to the ruling may be raised after the record is certified for decision by the Commission or on review of the initial decision.

(2) If an appeal is allowed and is considered on its merits, the disposition on appeal is final. Objection to the ruling or to the action on appeal may not be raised after the record is certified for decision by the Commission or on review of the initial decision.

(3) If the presiding officer modifies their initial ruling, any party adversely affected by the modified ruling may file a request for permission to file appeal, pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph.
