
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### Appeal and Reconsideration of Presiding Officer's Ruling
####### § 1.301 Appeal from interlocutory rulings by a presiding officer, other than the Commission, or a case manager; effective date of ruling.
######## Procedures, effective date.

(c)(1) Unless the presiding officer orders otherwise, rulings made shall be effective when the order is released or (if no written order) when the ruling is made. The Commission may stay the effect of any ruling that comes before it for consideration on appeal.

(2) Appeals filed under paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed within 5 days after the order is released or (if no written order) after the ruling is made. Appeals filed under paragraph (b) of this section shall be filed within 5 days after the appeal is allowed.

(3) The appeal shall conform with the specifications set out in § 1.49 and shall be subscribed and verified as provided in § 1.52.

(4) The appeal shall be served on parties to the proceeding (see §§ 1.47 and 1.211), and shall be filed with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554.

(5) The appeal shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages.

(6) Appeals are acted on by the Commission.

(7) Oppositions and replies shall be served and filed in the same manner as appeals and shall be served on appellant if he is not a party to the proceeding. Oppositions shall be filed within 5 days after the appeal is filed. Replies shall not be permitted, unless the Commission specifically requests them. Oppositions shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages. Replies shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages.
