
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 24 - PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Broadband PCS
###### Policies Governing Microwave Relocation From the 1850-1990 MHz Band
####### ยง 24.245 Reimbursement under the Cost-Sharing Plan.
######## Documentation of expenses.,i.e.

(b)Once relocation occurs, the PCS relocator or the voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, must submit documentation itemizing the amount spent for items listed in ยง 24.243(b). The voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, must also submit an independent third party appraisal of its compensable relocation costs. The appraisal should be based on the actual cost of replacing the incumbent's system with comparable facilities and should exclude the cost of any equipment upgrades or items outside the scope of ยง 24.243(b). The PCS relocator or the voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, must identify the particular link associated with appropriate expenses (, costs may not be averaged over numerous links). If a PCS relocator pays a microwave incumbent a monetary sum to relocate its own facilities, the PCS relocator must estimate the costs associated with relocating the incumbent by itemizing the anticipated cost for items listed in ยง 24.243(b). If the sum paid to the incumbent cannot be accounted for, the remaining amount is not eligible for reimbursement. A PCS relocator may submit receipts or other documentation to the clearinghouse for all relocation expenses incurred since April 5, 1995.
