
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### The Discovery and Preservation of Evidence
####### § 1.314 Confidentiality of information produced or exchanged.

(a) Any information produced in the course of a hearing proceeding may be designated as confidential by any parties to the proceeding, or third parties, pursuant to § 0.457, § 0.459, or § 0.461 of these rules. Any parties or third-parties asserting confidentiality for such materials must:

(1) Clearly mark each page, or portion thereof, for which a confidential designation is claimed. The parties or third parties claiming confidentiality should restrict their designations to encompass only the specific information that they assert is confidential. If a confidential designation is challenged, the party or third party claiming confidentiality shall have the burden of demonstrating, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the materials designated as confidential fall under the standards for nondisclosure enunciated in the FOIA and that the designation is narrowly tailored to encompass only confidential information.

(2) File with the Commission, using the Commission's Electronic Comment Filing System, a public version of the materials that redacts any confidential information and clearly marks each page of the redacted public version with a header stating "Public Version." The Public Version shall be machine-readable whenever technically possible. Where the document to be filed electronically contains metadata that is confidential or protected from disclosure by a legal privilege (including, for example, the attorney-client privilege), the filer may remove such metadata from the Public Version before filing it electronically.

(3) File an unredacted version of the materials containing confidential information, as directed by the Commission. Each page of the unredacted version shall display a header stating "Confidential Version." The unredacted version must be filed on the same day as the Public Version.

(4) Serve one copy of the Public Version and one copy of the Confidential Version on the attorney of record for each party to the proceeding or on a party if not represented by an attorney, either by hand delivery, overnight delivery, or email, together with a proof of such service in accordance with the requirements of § 1.47(g). A copy of the Public Version and Confidential Version shall also be served on the presiding officer, as directed by the Commission.

(b) An attorney of record for any party or any party that receives unredacted materials marked as confidential may disclose such materials solely to the following persons, only for use in prosecuting or defending a party to the hearing proceeding, and only to the extent necessary to assist in the prosecution or defense of the case:

(1) Employees of counsel of record representing the parties in the hearing proceeding;

(2) Officers or employees of the receiving party who are directly involved in the prosecution or defense of the case;

(3) Consultants or expert witnesses retained by the parties; and

(4) Court reporters and stenographers in accordance with the terms and conditions of this section.

(c) The individuals identified above in paragraph (b) shall not disclose information designated as confidential to any person who is not authorized under this section to receive such information, and shall not use the information in any activity or function other than the prosecution or defense in the hearing proceeding. Each such individual who is provided access to the information shall sign a declaration or affidavit stating that the individual has personally reviewed the Commission's rules and understands the limitations they impose on the signing party.

(d) Parties may make copies of materials marked confidential solely for use by the Commission or persons designated in paragraph (b) of this section. Each party shall maintain a log recording the number of copies made of all confidential material and the persons to whom the copies have been provided.

(e) The presiding officer may adopt a protective order as appropriate.

(f) Upon final termination of a hearing proceeding, including all appeals and applications for review, the parties shall ensure that all originals and reproductions of any confidential materials, along with the log recording persons who received copies of such materials, shall be provided to the producing party. In addition, upon final termination of the proceeding, any notes or other work product derived in whole or in part from the confidential materials of an opposing or third party shall be destroyed.
