
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 24 - PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Broadband PCS
###### § 24.232 Power and antenna height limits.
####### see

(3) Base station antenna heights may exceed 300 meters HAAT with a corresponding reduction in power;Tables 3 and 4 of this section.

(4) The service area boundary limit and microwave protection criteria specified in §§ 24.236 and 24.237 apply.

(5) Operation under this paragraph (b) at power limits greater than permitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be coordinated in advance with all broadband PCS licensees authorized to operate on adjacent frequency blocks within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base station and is limited to base stations located more than 120 kilometers (75 miles) from the Canadian border and more than 75 kilometers (45 miles) from the Mexican border.

(c) Mobile and portable stations are limited to 2 watts EIRP and the equipment must employ a means for limiting power to the minimum necessary for successful communications.

(d) Power measurements for transmissions by stations authorized under this section may be made either in accordance with a Commission-approved average power technique or in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section. In both instances, equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 24.51. In measuring transmissions in this band using an average power technique, the peak-to-average ratio (PAR) of the transmission may not exceed 13 dB.
