
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 24 - PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Broadband PCS
###### Appendix I to Subpart E of Part 24 - A Procedure for Calculating PCS Signal Levels at Microwave Receivers (Appendix E of the Memorandum Opinion and Order)
####### Special Situations.

If a cell size is large compared to the distance between the cell and a microwave receiving site so that it subtends an angle greater than 5 degrees, the cell should be subdivided and calculations should be based on the expected distribution of mobiles and portables within each subdivision.

If terrain elevations within a cell differ by more than a factor of two-to-one, the cell should be subdivided and microwave interference calculations should be based on the average terrain elevation for each subdivision.

If a co-channel PCS base station lies within the main beam of a microwave antenna (+/-5 degrees), there is no intervening terrain obstructions, and the power at the microwave receiver from that base station, assuming free space propagation, would be 3 dB or less below the interference threshold, interference will be assumed to exist unless the PCS licensee can demonstrate otherwise by specific path loss calculations based on terrain and building losses.

If any part of a cell or cell subdivision lies within the main beam of a co-channel microwave antenna, there is no intervening terrain obstructions, and the accumulative power of 5 percent or less of the mobiles, assuming free space propagation would be 3 dB or less below the interference threshold, interference will be assumed to exist unless the PCS licensee can demonstrate otherwise by specific path loss calculations based on terrain and building losses.

If a building within a cell or cell subdivision lies within the main beam of a co-channel microwave antenna, there is no intervening terrain obstructions, and the cumulative power of 5 percent or fewer of the portables, assuming free space propagation, would be 3 dB or less below the interference threshold, interference will be assumed to exist unless the PCS licensee can demonstrate otherwise by specific path loss calculations based on terrain and building losses.

1. Longley, A.G. and Rice, P.L., "Prediction of Tropospheric Radio Transmission Loss Over Irregular Terrain, A Computer Method-1968", ESSA Technical Report ERL 79-ITS 67, Institute for Telecommunications Sciences, July 1968.

2. Rice, P.L. Longley, A.G., Norton, K.A., Barsis, A.P., "Transmission Loss Predictions for Tropospheric Communications Circuits," NBS Technical Note 101 (Revised), Volumes I and II, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1967.

3. Hufford, G.A., Longley, A.G. and Kissick, W.A., "A Guide to the use of the ITS Irregular Terrain Model in the Area Prediction Mode", NTIA Report 82-100, U.S. Department of Commerce, April 1982. Also, Circular letter, dated January 30, 1985, from G.A. Hufford, identifying modifications to the computer program.

4. Hufford, G.A., Memorandum to Users of the ITS Irregular Terrain Model, Institute for Telecommunications Sciences, U.S. Department of Commerce, January 30, 1985.
