
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 24 - PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Competitive Bidding Procedures for Broadband PCS
###### ยง 24.709 Eligibility for licenses for frequency Blocks C or F.
####### Tier 2:

(B)BTA service areas with population less than 2.5 million.

(ii) For Auction No. 35, the population of individual BTA service areas will be based on the 1990 census. For auctions beginning after the start of Auction No. 35, the population of individual BTA service areas will be based on the most recent available decennial census.

(4) Application of eligibility requirements. (i) The following categories of licenses will be subject to closed bidding pursuant to the eligibility requirements of this section in auctions that begin after the effective date of this paragraph.

(A) For Tier 1 BTAs, one of the 10 MHz C block licenses (1895-1900 MHz paired with 1975-1980 MHz);

(B) For Tier 2 BTAs, two of the 10 MHz C block licenses (1895-1900 MHz paired with 1975-1980 MHz; 1900-1905 MHz paired with 1980-1985 MHz) and all 15 MHz C block licenses.

(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, any C block license for operation on spectrum that has been offered, but not won by a bidder, in closed bidding in any auction beginning on or after March 23, 1999, will not be subject in a subsequent auction to closed bidding pursuant to the eligibility requirements of this section.

(5) Special rule for licensees disaggregating or returning certain spectrum in frequency block C.

(i) In addition to entities qualifying for closed bidding under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any entity that was eligible for and participated in the auction for frequency block C, which began on December 18, 1995, or the reauction for frequency block C, which began on July 3, 1996, will be eligible to bid for C block licenses offered in closed bidding in any reauction of frequency block C spectrum that begins within two years of March 23, 1999.

(ii) In cases of merger, acquisition, or other business combination of entities, where each of the entities is eligible to bid for C block licenses offered in closed bidding in any reauction of C block spectrum on the basis of the eligibility exception set forth in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, the resulting entity will also be eligible for the exception specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section.
