
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart B - Delegations of Authority
###### Commissioners
####### § 0.212 Board of Commissioners.

(a) Whenever the Chairperson or Acting Chairperson of the Commission determines that a quorum of the Commission is not present or able to act, he/she may convene a Board of Commissioners. The Board shall be composed of all Commissioners present and able to act.

(b) The Board of Commissioners is authorized to act upon all matters normally acted upon by the Commission en banc, except the following:

(1) The final determination on the merits of any adjudicatory or investigatory hearing proceeding or of any rule making proceeding, except upon a finding by the Board that the public interest would be disserved by waiting the convening of a quorum of the Commission.

(2) Petitions for reconsideration of Commission actions.

(3) Applications for review of actions taken pursuant to delegated authority, except that the Board may dismiss any such application that does not contain any statement required under § 1.115(a) or (b) of this chapter, or does not comply with the filing requirements of § 1.115(d) or (f) of this chapter.

(c) The Board of Commissioners is authorized to act upon all matters normally acted upon by an individual Commissioner (when he or his alternates are not present or able to act) or by a committee of Commissioners (in the absence of a quorum of the committee).

(d) Actions taken by the Board of Commissioners shall be recorded in the same manner as actions taken by the Commission en banc.

(e) This section has no application in circumstances in which the Commission is unable to function at its offices in Washington, D.C. See §§ 0.181-0.186 and §§ 0.381-0.387.
