
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 24 - PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Competitive Bidding Procedures for Broadband PCS
###### ยง 24.714 Partitioned licenses and disaggregated spectrum.
####### Parties not qualified for installment payment plans.

(2)(i) When a winning bidder elects to pay for its license through an installment payment plan, and partitions its license or disaggregates spectrum to another party that would not qualify for an installment payment plan or elects not to pay its share of the license through installment payments, the outstanding balance owed by the licensee (including accrued and unpaid interest shall be apportioned according to ยง 24.714(c)(1)).

(ii) The partitionee or disaggregatee shall, as a condition of the approval of the partial assignment application, pay its entire pro rata amount within 30 days of Public Notice conditionally granting the partial assignment application. Failure to meet this condition will result in a rescission of the grant of the partial assignment application.

(iii) The licensee shall be permitted to continue to pay its pro rata share of the outstanding balance and shall receive new financing documents (promissory note, security agreement) with a revised payment obligation, based on the remaining amount of time on the original installment payment schedule. These financing documents will replace the licensee's existing financing documents, which shall be marked "superseded" and returned to the licensee upon receipt of the new financing documents. The original interest rate, established pursuant to ยง 1.2110(g)(3)(i) of this chapter at the time of the grant of the initial license in the market, shall continue to be applied to the licensee's portion of the remaining government obligation. The Commission will require, as a further condition to approval of the partial assignment application, that the licensee execute and return to the U.S. Treasury the new financing documents within 30 days of the Public Notice conditionally granting the partial assignment application. Failure to meet this condition will result in the automatic cancellation of the grant of the partial assignment application.

(iv) A default on the licensee's payment obligation will only affect the licensee's portion of the market.
