
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### ยง 25.111 Additional information, ITU filings, and ITU cost recovery.

(a) The Commission may request from any party at any time additional information concerning any application, or any other submission or pleading regarding an application, filed under this part.

(b) Applicants and licensees of radio stations governed by this part must provide the Commission with the information required for Advance Publication, Coordination, and Notification of frequency assignment filings, including due diligence information, pursuant to the Radio Regulations of the International Telecommunication Union. No protection from interference caused by radio stations authorized by other Administrations is guaranteed unless ITU procedures are timely completed or, with respect to individual Administrations, coordination agreements are successfully completed. A license for which such procedures have not been completed may be subject to additional terms and conditions required for coordination of the frequency assignments with other Administrations.

(c) In the Direct Broadcast Satellite service, applicants and licensees shall also provide the Commission with all information it requires in order to modify the plans for the Broadcasting-Satellite Service (BSS) in Appendix 30 of the ITU Radio Regulations (RR) and associated feeder-link plans in Appendix 30A of the ITU RR, if the system has technical characteristics differing from those specified in the Appendix 30 BSS Plans, the Appendix 30A feederlink Plans, Annex 5 to Appendix 30, or Annex 3 to Appendix 30A. For such systems, no protection from interference caused by radio stations authorized by other Administrations is guaranteed until the agreement of all affected Administrations is obtained and the frequency assignment becomes a part of the appropriate Region 2 BSS and feeder-link Plans. Authorizations for which coordination is not completed and/or for which the necessary agreements under Appendices 30 and 30A have not been obtained may be subject to additional terms and conditions as required to effect coordination or obtain the agreement of other Administrations. Applicants and licensees shall also provide the Commission with the information required by Appendix 4 of the ITU RR for advance publication and notification or coordination of the frequencies to be used for tracking, telemetry and control functions of DBS systems.

(d) The Commission will submit filings to the ITU on behalf of an applicant, licensee, or other requesting party only after the party has filed a signed declaration of unconditional acceptance of all consequent ITU cost-recovery responsibility. Applicants and licensees must file the declaration electronically in the application file in the International Communications Filing System (ICFS). In addition, applicants and licensees must reference the call sign and name of the satellite network in the declaration. All cost-recovery declarations must include the name(s), address(es), email address(es), and telephone number(s) of a contact person, or persons, responsible for cost recovery inquiries and ITU correspondence and filings. Supplements must be filed as necessary to apprise the Commission of changes in the contact information until the ITU cost-recovery responsibility is discharged. The applicant, licensee, or other party must remit payment of any resultant cost-recovery fee to the ITU by the due date specified in the ITU invoice, unless an appeal is pending with the ITU that was filed prior to the due date. A license granted in reliance on such a commitment will be conditioned upon discharge of any such cost-recovery obligation. Where an applicant or licensee has an overdue ITU cost-recovery fee and does not have an appeal pending with the ITU, the Commission will dismiss any application associated with that satellite network.

(e) The Commission will process and forward to the ITU up to five Advance Publication filings by an entity that are not accompanied by a complete space station license application or by an application pursuant to ยง 25.110(b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii). Such Advance Publication filing requests not contained in an application must be accompanied by a letter request and a signed ITU cost-recovery declaration pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. A request for filing of Advance Publication information will be attributed to an entity in the same manner as a space station license application under the criteria set forth in ยง 25.159(c).
