
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### § 25.113 Station construction, deployment approval, and operation of spare satellites.
######## i.e.,

(g) Except as set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, approval for orbital deployment and a station license (operating authority) must be applied for and granted before a space station may be deployed and operated in orbit. Approval for orbital deployment may be requested in an application for a space station license. However, an application for authority to deploy and operate an on-ground spare satellite will be considered pursuant to the following procedures:

(1) Applications for deployment and operation of an on-ground spare NGSO-like satellite will be considered pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 25.157, except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(2) Applications for deployment and operation of an on-ground spare GSO-like satellite will be considered pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 25.158, except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(3) Neither paragraph (g)(1) nor (g)(2) of this section will apply in cases where the space station to be deployed is determined to be an emergency replacement for a previously authorized space station that has been lost as a result of a launch failure or a catastrophic in-orbit failure.

(h) An operator of NGSO space stations under a blanket license granted by the Commission, except for those granted pursuant to the application process in § 25.122 or § 25.123, need not apply for license modification to operate technically identical in-orbit spare satellites in an authorized orbit. However, the licensee must notify the Commission within 30 days of bringing an in-orbit spare into service and certify that its activation has not exceeded the number of space stations authorized to provide service and that the licensee has determined by measurement that the activated spare is operating within the terms of the license.

(i) An operator of NGSO space stations under a blanket license granted by the Commission, except for those granted pursuant to the application process in § 25.122 or § 25.123, need not apply for license modification to deploy and operate technically identical replacement satellites in an authorized orbit within the term of the system authorization. However, the licensee must notify the Commission of the intended launch at least 30 days in advance and certify that its operation of the additional space station(s) will not increase the number of space stations providing service above the maximum number specified in the license.
