
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### § 25.114 Applications for space station authorizations.
######## e.g.

(3) Type of authorization requested (, launch authority, station license, modification of authorization);

(4)(i) For each space station transmitting and receiving antenna beam (including telemetry and tracking beams but not command beams), specify channel center frequencies and bandwidths and polarization plan. For command beams, specify each of the center frequencies within a 5 MHz range or a range of 2 percent of the assigned bandwidth, whichever is smaller, and the polarization plan. If the space station can vary channel bandwidth in a particular frequency band with on-board processing, specify only the range of frequencies in that band over which the beam can operate and the polarization plan.

(ii) Specify maximum EIRP and maximum EIRP density for each space station transmitting antenna beam. If the satellite uses shapeable antenna beams, as defined in § 25.103, specify instead maximum possible EIRP and maximum possible EIRP density within each shapeable beam's proposed coverage area. Provide this information for each frequency band in which the transmitting antenna would operate. For bands below 15 GHz, specify EIRP density in dBW/4 kHz; for bands at and above 15 GHz, specify EIRP density in dBW/MHz. If the EIRP density varies over time, specify the maximum possible EIRP density.

(iii)-(iv) [Reserved]

(v) For each space station receiving beam other than command beams, specify the gain-to-temperature ratio at beam peak. For receiving beams fed into transponders, also specify the minimum and maximum saturation flux density at beam peak. If the satellite uses shapeable beams, specify the minimum and maximum gain-to-temperature ratio within each shapeable beam's proposed coverage area, and for shapeable receiving beams fed into transponders, specify the minimum and maximum saturation power flux density within the 0 dB relative antenna gain isoline. Provide this information for each frequency band in which the receiving beam can operate. For command beams, specify the beam peak flux density at the command threshold;

(vi)(A) For space stations in geostationary orbit, specify predicted space station antenna gain contour(s) for each transmit and receive antenna beam, except for beams where the contour at 8 dB below peak falls entirely beyond the edge of the visible Earth. These contour(s) should be plotted on an area map at 2 dB intervals down to 10 dB below the peak gain and at 5 dB intervals between 10 dB and 20 dB below the peak gain. Applicants must present this information in a GIMS-readable format.

(B) For space stations in non-geostationary orbits, specify for each unique orbital plane the predicted antenna gain contour(s) for each transmit and receive antenna beam for one space station if all space stations are identical in the constellation. If individual space stations in the constellation have different antenna beam configurations, specify the predicted antenna gain contours for each transmit and receive beam for each space station type and orbit or orbital plane requested. The contours should be plotted on an area map with the beam depicted on the surface of the earth with the space stations' peak antenna gain pointed at nadir to a latitude and longitude within the proposed service area. The contour(s) should be plotted at 2 dB intervals down to 10 dB below the peak gain and at 5 dB intervals between 10 dB and 20 dB below the peak gain. For intersatellite links, specify the peak antenna gain and 3 dB beamwidth.

(C) For space stations with shapeable antenna beams, specify the contours, as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(vi)(A) or (B) of this section, for the transmitting beam configuration that results in the highest EIRP density for the beams listed in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section and for the receiving beam configuration with the smallest gain-to-temperature ratio and the highest required saturation power flux density for the beams listed in paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this section. If the shapeable beams are also steerable, include the contours that would result from moving the beam peak around the limit of the effective beam peak area and the 0 dB relative antenna gain isoline. The proposed maximum coverage area must be clearly specified.

(D) For a space station with steerable beams that are not shapeable, specify the applicable contours, as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(vi)(A) or (c)(4)(vi)(B) of this section, with a description of a proposed coverage area for each steerable beam or provide the contour information described in paragraph (c)(4)(vi)(C) of this section for each steerable beam.

(vii) For geostationary satellites with large numbers of identical fixed spot beams, other than DBS satellites, applicants may, as an alternative to submitting the information described in paragraph (c)(4)(vi) of this section with respect to these beams, provide the predicted antenna gain contours for one transmit and receive antenna beam, together with one of the following:

(A) An area map showing all of the spot beams depicted on the surface of the Earth;

(B) A table identifying the maximum antenna gain point(s) in latitude and longitude to the nearest 0.1 degree; or

(C) A map of the isolines formed by combining all of the spot beams into one or more composite beams. For non-geostationary satellites with large numbers of identical fixed beams on each satellite, applicants may, as an alternative to submitting the information described in paragraph (c)(4)(vi) of this section with respect to those beams, specify the predicted antenna gain contours for one transmit and receive beam pointed to nadir, together with an area map showing all of the spot beams depicted on the surface of the earth with the satellites' peak antenna gain pointed to a selected latitude and longitude within the service area.

(5) For space stations in geostationary orbit:

(i) Orbital location requested,

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) East-west station-keeping range,

(iv) North-south station-keeping range, and

(v) Accuracy to which antenna axis attitude will be maintained;

(6) For space stations in non-geostationary orbits:

(i) The number of orbital planes and the number of space stations in each plane,

(ii) The inclination of the orbital plane(s),

(iii) The orbital period,

(iv) The apogee,

(v) The perigee,

(vi) The argument(s) of perigee,

(vii) Active service arc(s),

(viii) Right ascension of the ascending node(s), and

(ix) For each satellite in each orbital plane, the initial phase angle at the reference time;

(7) The frequency bands, types of service, and coverage areas;

(8) Calculated maximum power flux-density levels within each coverage area and energy dispersal bandwidths, if any, needed for compliance with § 25.208, for the angles of arrival specified in the applicable paragraph(s) of § 25.208, except for an NGSO FSS applicant certifying compliance with PFD limits under § 25.146(a)(1);

(9) [Reserved]

(10) Estimated operational lifetime;

(11) Whether the space station is to be operated on a common carrier basis;

(12) [Reserved]

(13) And the polarization information necessary to determine compliance with § 25.210(i).

(d) The following information in narrative form shall be contained in each application, except space station applications filed pursuant to § 25.122 or § 25.123:

(1) Overall description of system facilities, operations and services and explanation of how uplink frequency bands would be connected to downlink frequency bands;

(2)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) Public interest considerations in support of grant;

(7) Applicants for authorizations for space stations in the Fixed-Satellite Service, including applicants proposing feeder links for space stations operating in the 17/24 GHz Broadcasting-Satellite Service, must also include the information specified in § 25.140(a). Applicants for authorizations for space stations in the 17/24 GHz Broadcasting-Satellite Service must also include the information specified in § 25.140(b);

(8) Applications for authorizations in the Mobile-Satellite Service in the 1545-1559/1646.5-1660.5 MHz frequency bands shall also provide all information necessary to comply with the policies and procedures set forth in Rules and Policies Pertaining to the Use of Radio Frequencies in a Land Mobile Satellite Service, 2 FCC Rcd 485 (1987) (Available at address in § 0.445 of this chapter.);

(9) Applications to license multiple space station systems in the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service under blanket operating authority shall also provide all information specified in § 25.142; and

(10) An application for space station authorization in the 1.6/2.4 GHz or 2 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service must include information required by § 25.143(b);

(11) Applications for space stations in the Direct Broadcast Satellite Service must include a clear and detailed statement of whether the space station is to be operated on a broadcast or non-broadcast basis;

(12) The information required by § 25.146, if the application is for an NGSO FSS system authorization within the 10.7-30 GHz band.

(13) For satellite applications in the Direct Broadcast Satellite Service, if the proposed system's technical characteristics differ from those specified in the Appendix 30 BSS Plans, the Appendix 30A feeder link Plans, Annex 5 to Appendix 30 or Annex 3 to Appendix 30A of the ITU Radio Regulations, each applicant must provide:

(i) The information requested in Appendix 4 of the ITU Radio Regulations. Further, applicants must provide sufficient technical showing that the proposed system could operate satisfactorily if all assignments in the BSS and feeder link Plans were implemented.

(ii) Analyses of the proposed system with respect to the limits in Annex 1 to Appendices 30 and 30A of the ITU Radio Regulations.

(14) A description of the design and operational strategies that will be used to mitigate orbital debris, including the following information:

(i) A statement that the space station operator has assessed and limited the amount of debris released in a planned manner during normal operations, and has assessed and limited the probability of the space station becoming a source of debris by collisions with small debris or meteoroids that could cause loss of control and prevent post-mission disposal;

(ii) A statement that the space station operator has assessed and limited the probability of accidental explosions during and after completion of mission operations. This statement must include a demonstration that debris generation will not result from the conversion of energy sources on board the spacecraft into energy that fragments the spacecraft. Energy sources include chemical, pressure, and kinetic energy. This demonstration should address whether stored energy will be removed at the spacecraft's end of life, by depleting residual fuel and leaving all fuel line valves open, venting any pressurized system, leaving all batteries in a permanent discharge state, and removing any remaining source of stored energy, or through other equivalent procedures specifically disclosed in the application;
