
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### § 25.115 Applications for earth station authorizations.
######## Certification of compliance with space station authorization.

(ii)An earth station applicant certifying that it will comply with the applicable terms and conditions of the authorization of any space station with which it communicates need not provide technical demonstrations or other information that is duplicative or unnecessary due to the certification. This provision does not apply to FSS operation in bands below 10 GHz or in bands subject to § 25.136.

(2) Applicants for licenses for transmitting earth stations in the FSS may file on FCC Form 312EZ if all of the following criteria are met:

(i) The application is for a single station that will transmit to an FSS GSO space station, or stations, in the 5925-6425 MHz band, or for single or multiple stations that will transmit to an FSS GSO space station, or stations, in the 14.0-14.5 GHz, 28.35-28.6 GHz, and/or 29.5-30.0 GHz band;

(ii) The earth station(s) will not be installed or operated on ships, aircraft, or other moving vehicles;

(iii) The application meets all relevant criteria in § 25.211 or § 25.212 or includes information filed pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section indicating that off-axis EIRP density from the proposed earth stations will not exceed relevant levels specified in § 25.218; and

(iv) Operation of the proposed station has been successfully coordinated with terrestrial systems, if the station would transmit in the 5925-6425 MHz band;

(v) The application includes an environmental impact statement pursuant to § 1.1311 of this chapter, if required;

(vi) The applicant does not propose to communicate via non-U.S.-licensed space stations not on the Permitted Space Station List; and

(vii) If the proposed station(s) will receive in the 18.3-18.8 GHz and/or 19.7-20.2 GHz bands, the applicant proposes to communicate only via satellites for which coordination has been completed pursuant to Footnote US334 of the U.S. Table of Frequency Allocations with respect to Federal Government systems authorized on a primary basis, under an agreement previously approved by the Commission and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and the applicant certifies that it will operate consistently with the agreement.

(3) Unless the Commission orders otherwise, an application filed on FCC Form 312EZ in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be deemed granted 35 days after the date of the public notice that the application has been accepted for filing, provided no objection is filed during the 30-day public notice period.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Applicants that are not permitted to submit applications under paragraph (a)(2) of this section on Form 312EZ, must submit, as an attachment to their application, the following information to be used as an "informative" in the public notice issued under § 25.151:

(i) A detailed description of the service to be provided, including frequency bands and satellites to be used. The applicant must identify either the specific satellite(s) with which it plans to operate, or the eastern and western boundaries of the arc it plans to coordinate.

(ii) The diameter or equivalent diameter of the antenna.

(iii) Proposed power and power density levels.

(iv) Identification of any random access technique, if applicable.

(v) Identification of a specific rule or rules for which a waiver is requested.

(6)(i) Applicants for earth stations transmitting in frequency bands shared with equal rights between terrestrial and space services must provide a frequency coordination analysis in accordance with § 25.203(b) and must include any notification or demonstration required by any other relevant provision in § 25.203.

(ii) Applicants for user transceiver units associated with the NVNG MSS must provide the information required by § 25.135.

(iii) Applicants for 1.6/2.4 GHz MSS user transceivers must demonstrate that the transceivers will operate in compliance with relevant requirements in § 25.213.

(iv) Applicants for earth stations licensed in accordance with § 25.136 must demonstrate that the transmitting earth stations will meet the relevant criteria specified in that section, including any showings required under § 25.136(a)(4), (c), (d)(4), and/or (e)(4).

(7) In those cases where an applicant is filing a number of essentially similar applications, showings of a general nature applicable to all of the proposed stations may be submitted in the initial application and incorporated by reference in subsequent applications.

(8) Transmissions of signals or programming to non-U.S. licensed satellites, and to and/or from foreign points by means of U.S.-licensed fixed satellites may be subject to restrictions as a result of international agreements or treaties. The Commission will maintain public information on the status of any such agreements.

(9) Applicants seeking to operate in a shared government/non-government band must provide the half-power beam width of their proposed earth station antenna, as an attachment to their applications.

(10) With the exception of applications for blanket-licensed earth station networks filed pursuant to § 25.115(c) or § 25.218; applications for conventional Ka-band hub stations filed pursuant to § 25.115(e); applications for NGSO FSS gateway earth stations filed pursuant to § 25.115(f); applications for individually licensed earth stations filed pursuant to § 25.136; applications for ESIMs filed pursuant to § 25.115(l), § 25.115(m), or § 25.115(n); or applications for 29 GHz NGSO MSS feeder-link stations in a complex as defined in § 25.257, parties may apply, either in an initial application or an application for modification of license, for operating authority for multiple transmitting FSS earth stations that are not eligible for blanket or network licensing under another section of this part in the following circumstances:

(i) The antennas would transmit in frequency bands shared with terrestrial services on a co-primary basis and the antennas would be sited within an area bounded by 1 second of latitude and 1 second of longitude.

(ii) The antennas would transmit in frequency bands allocated to FSS on a primary basis and there is no co-primary allocation for terrestrial services, and the antennas would be sited within an area bounded by 10 seconds of latitude and 10 seconds of longitude.
