
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### § 25.115 Applications for earth station authorizations.
######## Networks of earth stations operating in the 3700-4200 MHz and 5925-6425 MHz bands.

(2)Applications to license networks of earth stations operating in the 3700-4200 MHz and 5925-6425 MHz bands must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B. Applications will be routinely processed provided that frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed and that the proposed earth stations comply with the applicable provisions in § 25.211(d) or § 25.212(d). Alternatively, applicants that have satisfactorily completed frequency coordination may be routinely processed if the proposed earth stations comply with the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(c) or (d).

(i) For earth station antennas operating with power levels not consistent with the applicable provisions in § 25.211(d) or § 25.212(d), or with EIRP density levels not consistent with those specified in § 25.218(c) or (d), the applicant must file an initial lead application providing a detailed overview of the complete network. Such lead applications must fully identify the scope and nature of the service to be provided, as well as the complete technical details of each representative type of antenna that will operate within the network. Such lead applications for a single system must identify:

(A) No more than three geostationary satellites to be accessed;

(B) The amount of frequency bandwidth sought, up to a maximum of 20 MHz of spectrum in each direction at each of the satellites (The same 20 MHz of uplink and 20 MHz of downlink spectrum at each satellite would be accessible by all earth stations in the system. The 20 MHz of uplink and 20 MHz of downlink spectrum need not be the same at each satellite location);

(C) The maximum number of earth station sites;

(ii) Following the issuance of a license for the lead application, the licensee shall notify the Commission of the complete technical parameters of each individual earth station site before that site is bought into operation under the lead authorization. Full frequency coordination of each individual site (e.g., for each satellite and the spectrum associated therewith) shall be completed prior to filing Commission notification. The coordination must be conducted in accordance with § 25.203. Such notification shall be done by electronic filing and shall be consistent with the technical parameters of Schedule B of FCC Form 312.

(iii) Following successful coordination of such an earth station, if the earth station operator does not file a lead application or a Schedule B within six months after it successfully completes coordination, it will be assumed that such frequency use is no longer desired, unless a second notification has been received within ten days prior to the end of the six month period. Such renewal notifications must be sent to all parties concerned. If the lead application or Schedule B, or renewal notification, is not timely received, the coordination will lapse and the licensee must re-coordinate the relevant earth stations if it still wishes to bring them into operation.

(iv) Operation of each individual site may commence immediately after the public notice is released that identifies the notification sent to the Commission and if the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section are met. Continuance of operation of each station for the duration of the lead license term shall be dependent upon successful completion of the normal public notice process. If any objections are received to the new station prior to the end of the 30 day comment period of the Public Notice, the licensee shall immediately cease operation of those particular stations until the coordination dispute is resolved and the licensee informs the Commission of the resolution. If the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section are not met, operation may not commence until the Commission issues the public notice acting on the terminal authorization.

(v) Each licensee shall annually provide the Commission an updated list of all operational earth stations in its system. The annual list shall also include a list of all earth stations deactivated during the year and identification of the satellites providing service to the network as of the date of the report.
