
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### § 25.115 Applications for earth station authorizations.
######## Period of construction.

(vii)Construction of each earth station must be completed and the station must be brought into regular operation within twelve months from the date that action is taken to authorize that station to operate under the lead authorization, except as may be otherwise determined by the Commission for any particular application.

(3) Networks of earth stations operating in the 18.3-18.8 GHz, 19.7-20.2 GHz, 28.35-28.6 GHz, and 29.25-30 GHz bands with U.S.-licensed or non-U.S.-licensed satellites for domestic or international services.

(i) Applications to license networks of earth stations that will transmit digitally modulated signals to GSO space stations in the 28.35-28.6 GHz and/or 29.25-30.0 GHz bands under blanket operating authority must be filed on FCC Form 312, or Form 312EZ if available, with a Schedule B for each large (5 meters or larger) hub station antenna and each representative type of small antenna (less than 5 meters) operating within the network and may be routinely processed if the criteria in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section are met:

(A) The applicant certifies pursuant to § 25.132(a)(1) that the off-axis gain of transmitting antennas in the network will not exceed the relevant levels specified in § 25.209(a) and (b) and the power spectral density of any digitally modulated carrier into any transmitting earth station antenna in the proposed network will not exceed 3.5 dBW/MHz as specified in § 25.212(e).

(B) The application includes information filed pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section indicating that off-axis EIRP density from the proposed earth stations will not exceed relevant routine levels specified in § 25.218(i).

(ii) Applications to license networks of earth stations operating in the 28.35-28.6 GHz and/or 29.25-30.0 GHz bands under blanket operating authority that do not meet the requirements of § 25.212(e) or § 25.218(i) must comply with the requirements in § 25.220 and must be filed on FCC Form 312 with a Schedule B for each large (5 meters or larger) hub station antenna and each representative type of small antenna (less than 5 meters) operating within the network.

(d) Mobile-Satellite Service user transceivers need not be individually licensed. Service vendors may file blanket applications for such transceivers using FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B, specifying the number of units to be covered by the blanket license. A blanket license application for 1.5/1.6 GHz MSS user transceivers must include an explanation of how the applicant will comply with the priority and preemptive access requirements in § 25.287.
