
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### § 25.115 Applications for earth station authorizations.
######## NGSO FSS earth stations in 10.7-30.0 GHz.

(f)(1) An application for an NGSO FSS earth station license in the 10.7-30.0 GHz band must include the certification described in § 25.146(a)(2).

(2) Individual or blanket license applications may be filed for operation in the 10.7-12.7 GHz, 14-14.5 GHz, 17.8-18.6 GHz, 18.8-19.4 GHz, 19.6-20.2 GHz, 28.35-29.1 GHz, or 29.5-30.0 GHz bands; however, ESIMs cannot operate in the 28.35-28.4 GHz band and blanket licensing in the 10.7-11.7 GHz, 17.8-18.3 GHz, 19.3-19.4 GHz, and 19.6-19.7 GHz bands is on an unprotected basis with respect to current and future systems operating in the fixed service.

(3) Individual license applications only may be filed for operation in the 12.75-13.15 GHz, 13.2125-13.25 GHz, 13.75-14 GHz, or 27.5-28.35 GHz bands.

(g) Applications for earth stations that will transmit to GSO space stations in any portion of the 5850-6725 MHz, 13.75-14.5 GHz, 24.75-25.25 GHz, 28.35-28.6 GHz, or 29.25-30.0 GHz bands must include, in addition to the particulars of operation identified on FCC Form 312 and associated Schedule B, the information specified in either paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section for each earth station antenna type.

(1) Specification of off-axis EIRP density calculated from measurements made consistent with the requirements in § 25.132(b)(1), in accordance with the following requirements. For purposes of this rule, the "off-axis angle" is the angle in degrees from a line between an earth station antenna and the target satellite.

(i) A plot of maximum co-polarized EIRP density in the plane tangent to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 180&#xB0; to plus 180&#xB0;;

(ii) A plot of maximum co-polarized EIRP density in the plane tangent to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 10&#xB0; to plus 10&#xB0;;

(iii) A plot of maximum co-polarized EIRP density in the plane perpendicular to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from 0&#xB0; to plus 30&#xB0;;

(iv) A plot of maximum cross-polarized EIRP density in the plane tangent to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 7&#xB0; to plus 7&#xB0;;

(v) A plot of maximum cross-polarized EIRP density in the plane perpendicular to the GSO arc at off-axis angles from minus 7&#xB0; to plus 7&#xB0;;

(vi) For antennas for which gain measurements are made pursuant to § 25.132(b)(1)(iv), the EIRP density plots specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (v) of this section must be provided over the specified angular ranges in two orthogonal planes, one of which is tangent to the GSO arc and with the antenna operating at its maximum skew angle, which the applicant must specify.

(vii) The relevant off-axis EIRP density envelopes in § 25.218 must be superimposed on plots submitted pursuant to paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(viii) The showing must include a supplemental table for each off-axis angular range in which the relevant EIRP density envelope will be exceeded, specifying angular coordinates in degrees off-axis and corresponding calculated off-axis EIRP density at 0.2&#xB0; increments over the angular range in which the routine envelope will be exceeded and one degree on each side of that range.

(2) An applicant that certifies pursuant to § 25.132(a)(1) that a proposed antenna's measured gain pattern conforms to relevant standards in § 25.209(a) and (b) and that input power density to the antenna will not exceed the relevant limit in § 25.211 or § 25.212 need not provide a showing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section for operation with that antenna.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) An earth station applicant filing an application for a blanket-licensed earth station network made up of FSS earth stations and planning to use a contention protocol must include in its application a certification that its contention protocol usage will be reasonable.

(j) An application for a new fixed earth station or modification involving alteration of the overall height of one or more existing earth station antenna structures must include the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) for the antenna structure(s), if assigned. If no such number has been assigned, the application must state whether prior FAA notification is required by part 17 of this chapter and, if so, whether the applicant or owner of the structure has notified the FAA of the proposed construction or alteration and applied for an Antenna Structure Registration Number in accordance with part 17 of this chapter. Applicants who maintain that prior FAA notification is not required for construction or alteration of a structure with overall height more than 6.1 meters above ground level must explain in the application why such prior notification is not required.

(k)(1) Applicants for FSS earth stations that qualify for routine processing in the conventional or extended C-bands, the conventional or extended Ku-bands, the conventional Ka-band, or the 24.75-25.25 GHz band, including ESV applications filed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) or (n)(1) of this section, VMES applications filed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) or (n)(1) of this section, and ESAA applications filed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) or (n)(1) of this section, may designate the Permitted Space Station List as a point of communication. Once such an application is granted, the earth station operator may communicate with any space station on the Permitted Space Station List, provided that the operation is consistent with the technical parameters and conditions in the earth station license and any limitations placed on the space station authorization or noted in the Permitted Space Station List.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, an earth station that would receive signals in the 17.8-20.2 GHz band may not communicate with a space station on the Permitted Space Station List in that band until the space station operator has completed coordination under Footnote US334 to § 2.106 of this chapter.

(l) The requirements of this paragraph apply to applications for ESV operation in the 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) band with GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (5), (6), and (i) of this section:

(1) Applications where any necessary frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed, and the proposed earth station transmissions comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(d) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(d) will be routinely processed. Such applications must include the relevant information specified by paragraph (g) of this section. Applicants for ESIMs operating in a network using variable power density control of earth stations transmitting simultaneously in shared frequencies to the same target satellite receiving beam must also provide the certification required by § 25.212(g) or § 25.218(d)(4), whichever is applicable.

(2) Applications where the proposed earth station transmissions do not comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(d) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(d) must include the information specified by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and are subject to the requirements of § 25.220.

(3) Applications must include the following information:

(i) ESIM applicants that meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must certify that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. ESIM applicants that do not meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must provide a detailed showing that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. Variable-power ESIM applicants must certify that one or more transmitters are capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds of receiving a command to do so from the system's network control and monitoring center, if the aggregate off axis EIRP densities of the transmitter or transmitters exceed the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits.

(ii) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESVs will operate.

(iii) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2).

(iv) Applicants for ESVs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.

(m) The requirements of this paragraph apply to applications for ESIM operation in the 14.0-14.5 GHz (Earth-to-space) band with GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (5) and (i) of this section:

(1) Applications where any necessary frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed, and the proposed earth station transmissions comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(c)(2) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(f) will be routinely processed. Such applications must include the relevant information specified by paragraph (g) of this section. Applicants for ESIMs operating in a network using variable power density control of earth stations transmitting simultaneously in shared frequencies to the same target satellite receiving beam must also provide the certification required by § 25.212(g) or § 25.218(f)(4), whichever is applicable.

(2) Applications where the proposed earth station transmissions do not comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(c)(2) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(f) must include the information specified by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and are subject to the requirements of § 25.220.

(3) Applications must include the following information:

(i) ESIM applicants that meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must certify that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. ESIM applicants that do not meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must provide a detailed showing that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. Variable-power ESIM applicants must certify that one or more transmitters are capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds of receiving a command to do so from the system's network control and monitoring center, if the aggregate off axis EIRP densities of the transmitter or transmitters exceed the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits.

(ii) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESIMs will operate.

(iii) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2), (f), or (g)(1) as appropriate.

(iv) Applicants for ESIMs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.

(n) The requirements of this paragraph apply to applications for ESIM operation in the 28.35-28.6 GHz or 29.25-30.0 GHz (Earth-to-space) band with GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (5) and (i) of this section:

(1) Applications where any necessary frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed, and the proposed earth station transmissions comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(e) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(i) will be routinely processed. Such applications must include the relevant information specified by paragraph (g) of this section. Applicants for ESIMs operating in a network using variable power density control of earth stations transmitting simultaneously in shared frequencies to the same target satellite receiving beam must also provide the certification required by § 25.212(g) or § 25.218(i)(5), whichever is applicable.

(2) Applications where the proposed earth station transmissions do not comport with the applicable provisions in § 25.212(e) or the applicable off-axis EIRP density limits in § 25.218(i) must include the information specified by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and are subject to the requirements of § 25.220.

(3) Applications must include the following information:

(i) ESIM applicants that meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must certify that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. ESIM applicants that do not meet the relevant off-axis EIRP density mask must provide a detailed showing that an ESIM system is self-monitoring and capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds if the ESIM transmitter exceeds the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits. Variable-power ESIM applicants must certify that one or more transmitters are capable of automatically ceasing or reducing emissions within 100 milliseconds of receiving a command to do so from the system's network control and monitoring center, if the aggregate off axis EIRP densities of the transmitter or transmitters exceed the relevant off-axis EIRP density limits.

(ii) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESIMs will operate.

(iii) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2), (f), or (g)(1) as appropriate.

(iv) Applicants for ESIMs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.

(o) The requirements in this paragraph apply to applications for ESIMs operation with NGSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(5), and (i) of this section:

(1) An exhibit describing the geographic area(s) in which the ESIMs will operate and the location of hub and/or gateway stations.

(2) The point of contact information referred to in § 25.228(e)(2), (f), or (g)(1) as appropriate.

(3) Applicants for ESIMs that will exceed the guidelines in § 1.1310 of this chapter for radio frequency radiation exposure must provide, with their environmental assessment, a plan for mitigation of radiation exposure to the extent required to meet those guidelines.
