
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### ยง 25.118 Modifications not requiring prior authorization.
######## Earth station modifications, notification required.

(a)Earth station licensees may make the following modifications without prior Commission authorization, provided they notify the Commission, using FCC Form 312 and Schedule B, within 30 days of the modification. The notification must be filed electronically through the International Communications Filing System (ICFS) in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter.

(1) Blanket-licensed earth station operators may add remote terminals operating on a primary basis without prior authorization, provided they have complied with all applicable frequency coordination procedures in accordance with ยง 25.251.

(2) A licensee providing service on a private carrier basis may change its operations to common carrier status without obtaining prior Commission authorization. The licensee must notify the Commission using FCC Form 312 within 30 days after the completed change to common carrier status.

(3) An earth station operator may change a point of communication without prior authorization, provided the operator does not repoint the earth station's antenna beyond any coordinated range; and

(i) The change results from a space station relocation described in paragraph (e) of this section, or

(ii) The new point of communication is a replacement GSO space station within +/-0.15&#xB0; of orbital longitude of the same location, with authority to serve the U.S., and the change does not entail any increase in the earth station's EIRP or EIRP density.

(4) An earth station licensee may additionally:

(i) Decrease antenna height; or

(ii) Increase or decrease the earth station's PFD contour, provided the modification does not involve a change listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
