
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### ยง 25.118 Modifications not requiring prior authorization.
######## Relocation of GSO space stations.

(e)A space station licensee may relocate a GSO space station without prior authorization, but upon 30 days prior notice to the Commission and any potentially affected licensed spectrum user, provided that the operator meets the following requirements. The notification must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312 through the International Communications Filing System (ICFS) in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter:

(1) The space station will be relocated to a position within +/-0.15&#xB0; of an orbital location assigned to the same licensee.

(2) The licensee certifies that the space station will operate after the relocation within the technical parameters authorized and coordinated for the space station previously assigned to that location.

(3) The licensee certifies that it will comply with all the conditions of its license for operation at the changed location.

(4) The licensee certifies that it will limit operations of the space station to tracking, telemetry, and command functions during the relocation and satellite drift transition period.

(5) The licensee certifies that:

(i) It has assessed and limited the probability of the satellite becoming a source of debris as a result of collisions with large debris or other operational satellites at the new orbital location; and

(ii) The proposed station-keeping volume of the satellite following relocation will not overlap a station-keeping volume reasonably expected to be occupied by any other satellite, including those authorized by the Commission, applied for and pending before the Commission, or otherwise the subject of an ITU filing and either in orbit or progressing towards launch.

(6) The licensee certifies that the relocation will not result in a lapse of service for any current customer.
