
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### General Application Filing Requirements
####### ยง 25.119 Assignment or transfer of control of station authorization.
######## Transfer of control of corporation holding license.,de jure,de facto,pro forma

(d)If you want to transfer control of a corporation, which holds one or more licenses voluntarily or involuntarily (or), you must submit an FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule A. You must file these forms electronically through ICFS. For involuntary transfers, you must file your application within 10 days of the event causing the transfer of control. You can also use FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule A for non-substantial () transfers of control.

(e) Whenever a group of station licenses in the same radio service for the same class of facility licensed to the same entity is to be assigned or transferred to a single assignee or transferee, a single application may be filed to cover the entire group, if the application identifies in an exhibit each station by call sign, station location and expiration date of license.

(f) Assignments and transfers of control shall be completed within 180 days from the date of authorization. Within 30 days of consummation, the Commission shall be notified by letter of the date of consummation and the file numbers of the applications involved in the transaction.

(g) The Commission retains discretion in reviewing assignments and transfers of control of space station licenses to determine whether the initial license was obtained in good faith with the intent to construct a satellite system.
