
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### Earth Stations
####### ยง 25.132 Verification of earth station antenna performance.
######## System cross-polarization discrimination on-axis.

(3)The FCC envelope specified in ยง 25.209 shall be superimposed on each pattern. The transmit patterns are to be measured with the aid of a co-operating earth station in coordination with the satellite system control center under the provisions of ยง 25.272.

(e) Certification that the tests required by paragraph (c) of this section have been satisfactorily performed shall be provided to the Commission in notification that construction of the facilities has been completed as required by ยง 25.133.

(f) Antennas less than 3 meters in diameter and antennas on simple (manual) drive mounts that are operated at a fixed site are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section provided that a detailed technical showing is made that confirms proper installation, pointing procedures, and polarization alignment and manufacturing quality control. These showing must also include a plan for periodic testing and field installation procedures and precautions.

(g) Records of the results of the tests required by this section must be maintained at the antenna site or the earth station operator's control center and be available for inspection.
