
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### Space Stations
####### ยง 25.142 Licensing provisions for the non-voice, non-geostationary Mobile-Satellite Service.
######## Space station application requirements.

(a)(1) Each application for a space station system authorization in the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service shall describe in detail the proposed non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite system, setting forth all pertinent technical and operational aspects of the system, and the technical and legal qualifications of the applicant. In particular, each application shall include the information specified in ยง 25.114. Applicants must also file information demonstrating compliance with all requirements of this section, and showing, based on existing system information publicly available at the Commission at the time of filing, that they will not cause unacceptable interference to any non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service system authorized to construct or operate.

(2) Applicants for a non-voice, non-geostationary Mobile-Satellite Service space station license must identify the power flux density produced at the Earth's surface by each space station of their system in the 137-138 MHz and 400.15-401 MHz bands, to allow determination of whether coordination with terrestrial services is required under any applicable footnote to the Table of Frequency Allocations in ยง 2.106 of this chapter. In addition, applicants must identify the measures they would employ to protect the radio astronomy service in the 150.05-153 MHz and 406.1-410 MHz bands from harmful interference from unwanted emissions.

(3) Emission limitations. (i) Applicants in the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service shall show that their space stations will not exceed the emission limitations of ยง 25.202(f) (1), (2) and (3), as calculated for a fixed point on the Earth's surface in the plane of the space station's orbit, considering the worst-case frequency tolerance of all frequency determining components, and maximum positive and negative Doppler shift of both the uplink and downlink signals, taking into account the system design.

(ii) Applicants in the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service shall show that no signal received by their satellites from sources outside of their system shall be retransmitted with a power flux density level, in the worst 4 kHz, higher than the level described by the applicants in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) [Reserved]
