
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### Processing of Applications
####### § 25.156 Consideration of applications.

(a) Applications for a radio station authorization, or for modification or renewal of an authorization, will be granted if, upon examination of the application, any pleadings or objections filed, and upon consideration of such other matters as it may officially notice, the Commission finds that the applicant is legally, technically, and otherwise qualified, that the proposed facilities and operations comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and policies, and that grant of the application will serve the public interest, convenience and necessity.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Reconsideration or review of any final action taken by the Commission will be in accordance with subpart A of part 1 of this chapter.

(d)(1) Applications for NGSO-like satellite operation will be considered pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 25.157, except as provided in § 25.157(b) or (i), as appropriate.

(2) Applications for GSO-like satellite operation will be considered pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 25.158, except as provided in § 25.158(a)(2).

(3) Applications for both NGSO-like satellite operation and GSO-like satellite operation in two or more service bands will be treated as separate applications for each service band, and each service band request will be considered pursuant to § 25.157 or § 25.158, as appropriate.

(4) Applications for feeder-link authority or inter-satellite link authority will be treated like an application separate from its associated service band. Each feeder-link request or inter-satellite link request will be considered pursuant to the procedure for applications for GSO-like operation or NGSO-like operation, as applicable.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) An application for DBS or DARS services will be entitled to comparative consideration with one or more conflicting applications only if:

(i) The application is mutually exclusive with another application; and

(ii) The application is received by the Commission in a condition acceptable for filing by the "cut-off" date specified in a public notice.
