
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### Forfeiture, Termination, and Reinstatement of Station Authorization
####### § 25.165 Surety bonds.
######## et seq.,See, e.g.

(b) The licensee must use a surety company deemed acceptable within the meaning of 31 U.S.C. 9304(, Department of Treasury Fiscal Service, Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and As Acceptable Reinsurance Companies, 57 FR 29356, July 1, 1992.) The bond must name the U.S. Treasury as beneficiary in the event of the licensee's default. The licensee must provide the Commission with a copy of the performance bond, including all details and conditions.

(c) A licensee will be considered to be in default with respect to a bond filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section if it surrenders the license before meeting an applicable milestone requirement in § 25.164(a) or (b)(1) or if it fails to satisfy any such milestone.

(d) A licensee will be relieved of its bond obligation under paragraph (a) of this section upon a Commission finding that the licensee has satisfied the applicable milestone requirement(s) in § 25.164(a) and (b)(1) for the authorization.

(e) A replacement space station is one that:

(1) Is authorized to operate at an orbital location within +/-0.15&#xB0; of the assigned location of a GSO space station to be replaced or is authorized for NGSO operation and will replace an existing NGSO space station in its authorized orbit, except for space stations authorized under § 25.122 or § 25.123;

(2) Is authorized to operate in the same frequency bands, and with the same coverage area as the space station to be replaced; and

(3) Is scheduled to be launched so that it will be brought into use at approximately the same time as, but no later than, the existing space station is retired.

(f) An applicant that has submitted a Coordination Request pursuant to § 25.110(b)(3)(i) or an Appendix 30B filing pursuant to § 25.110(b)(3)(ii) must obtain a surety bond in the amount of $500,000 in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section for licensees. The application will be returned as defective pursuant to § 25.112 if a copy of the required bond is not filed with the Commission within 30 days after release of a public notice announcing that the Commission has submitted the Coordination Request or Appendix 30B filing to the ITU.

(g) An applicant will be considered to be in default with respect to a bond filed pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section if the applicant fails to submit a complete, acceptable license application pursuant to § 25.110(b)(3)(iii) for the operation proposed in the initial application materials filed pursuant to § 25.110(b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) within two years of the date of submission of the initial application materials.
