
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### Reporting Requirements For Space Station Operators
####### ยง 25.172 Requirements for reporting space station control arrangements.

(a) The operator of any space station licensed by the Commission or granted U.S. market access must file the following information with the Commission prior to commencing operation with the space station, or, in the case of a non-U.S.-licensed space station, prior to commencing operation with U.S. earth stations.

(1) The information required by ยง 25.171(a).

(2) The call signs of any telemetry, tracking, and command earth station(s) communicating with the space station from any site in the United States.

(3) The location, by city and country, of any telemetry, tracking, and command earth station that communicates with the space station from any point outside the United States.

(4) Alternatively, instead of listing the call signs and/or locations of earth stations currently used for telemetry, tracking, and command, the space station operator may provide 24/7 contact information for a satellite control center and a list of the call signs of any U.S. earth stations, and the locations of any non-U.S. earth stations, that are used or may be used for telemetry, tracking, and command communication with the space station(s) in question.

(b) The information required by paragraph (a) of this section must be filed electronically in the Commission's International Communications Filing System (ICFS), in the "Other Filings" tab of the space station's current authorization file. If call sign or location information provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section becomes invalid due to a change of circumstances, the space station operator must file updated information in the same manner within 30 days, except with respect to changes less than 30 days in duration, for which no update is necessary.
