
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### § 25.202 Frequencies, frequency tolerance, and emission limits.

(a)(1) In addition to the frequency-use restrictions set forth in § 2.106 of this chapter, the following restrictions apply:

(i) In the 27.5-28.35 GHz band, the FSS (Earth-to-space) is secondary to the Upper Microwave Flexible Use Service authorized pursuant to part 30 of this chapter, except for FSS operations associated with earth stations authorized pursuant to § 25.136.

(ii) Use of the 37.5-40 GHz band by the FSS (space-to-Earth) is limited to individually licensed earth stations. Earth stations in this band must not be ubiquitously deployed and must not be used to serve individual consumers.

(iii) The U.S. non-Federal Table of Frequency Allocations, in § 2.106 of this chapter, is applicable between Commission space station licensees relying on a U.S. ITU filing and transmitting to or receiving from anywhere on Earth, including airborne earth stations, in the 17.7-20.2 GHz or 27.5-30 GHz bands.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The following frequencies are available for use by the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service:

(4)(i) The following frequencies are available for use by the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service:

(ii) The following frequencies are available for use by the 2 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service: 2000-2020 MHz: User-to-Satellite Link; 2180-2200 MHz: Satellite-to-User Link.

(iii)(A) The following frequencies are available for use by the 1.5/1.6 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service:

(B) The use of the frequencies 1544-1545 MHz and 1645.5-1646.5 MHz is limited to distress and safety communications.

(5) The following frequencies are available for use by the inter-satellite service:

(6) The following frequencies are available for use by the Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service (SDARS), and for any associated terrestrial repeaters: 2320-2345 MHz (space-to-Earth)

(7) The following frequencies are available for use by the Direct Broadcast Satellite service:

(8) The following frequencies are available for use by Earth Stations on Vessels (ESVs) communicating with GSO FSS space stations, subject to the provisions in § 2.106 of this chapter:

(9) The following frequencies are available for use by the Broadcasting-Satellite Service after 1 April 2007:

(10)(i) The following frequencies are available for use by Vehicle-Mounted Earth Stations (VMESs):

(ii) The following frequencies are available for use by Earth Stations in Motion (ESIMs) communicating with GSO FSS space stations, subject to the provisions in § 2.106 of this chapter:

(A) 10.7-11.7 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(B) 11.7-12.2 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(C) 14.0-14.5 GHz (Earth-to-space).

(D) 17.3-17.7 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(E) 17.7-17.8 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(F) 17.8-18.3 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(G) 18.3-18.8 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(H) 18.8-19.3 GHz (space-to-Earth)

(I) 19.3-19.4 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(J) 19.6-19.7 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(K) 19.7-20.2 GHz (space-to-Earth).

(L) 28.35-28.6 GHz (Earth-to-space).

(M) 28.6-29.1 GHz (Earth-to-space).

(N) 29.25-30.0 GHz (Earth-to-space).

(iii) The following frequencies are available for use by Earth Stations in Motion (ESIMs) communicating with NGSO FSS space stations, subject to the provisions in § 2.106 of this chapter:

(11) [Reserved]

(12) The following frequencies are available for use by the mobile-satellite service (Earth-to-space) for the reception of Automatic Identification Systems (AIS) broadcast messages from ships:

(b) Other frequencies and associated bandwidths of emission may be assigned on a case-by-case basis to space systems under this part in conformance with § 2.106 of this chapter and the Commission's rules and policies.

(c) [Reserved]
