
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 25.203 Choice of sites and frequencies.
####### Notification to the National Radio Astronomy Observatory:

(f)In order to minimize possible harmful interference at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory site at Green Bank, Pocahontas County, W. Va., and at the Naval Radio Research Observatory site at Sugar Grove, Pendleton County, W. Va., any applicant for operating authority under this part for a new transmit or transmit-receive earth station, other than a mobile or temporary fixed station, within the area bounded by 39&#xB0;15&#x2032; N. on the north, 78&#xB0;30&#x2032; W. on the east, 37&#xB0;30&#x2032; N. on the south and 80&#xB0;30&#x2032; W. on the west or for modification of an existing license for such station to change the station's frequency, power, antenna height or directivity, or location must, when filing the application with the Commission, simultaneously notify the Director, National Radio Astronomy Observatory, P.O. Box No. 2, Green Bank, W. Va. 24944, in writing, of the technical particulars of the proposed station. Such notification shall include the geographical coordinates of the antenna, antenna height, antenna directivity if any, proposed frequency, type of emission, and power. In addition, the applicant shall indicate in his application to the Commission the date notification was made to the observatory. After receipt of such applications, the Commission will allow a period of 20 days for comments or objections in response to the notifications indicated. If an objection to the proposed operation is received during the 20-day period from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory for itself or on behalf of the Naval Radio Research Observatory, the Commission will consider all aspects of the problem and take whatever action is deemed appropriate.

(g) Protection for Federal Communications Commission monitoring stations:

(1) Applicants for authority to operate a new transmitting earth station in the vicinity of an FCC monitoring station or to modify the operation of a transmitting earth station in a way that would increase the field strength produced at such a monitoring station above that previously authorized should consider the possible need to protect the FCC stations from harmful interference. Geographic coordinates of the facilities that require protection are listed in ยง 0.121(c) of this chapter. Applications for fixed stations that will produce field strength greater than 10 mV/m or power flux density greater than -65.8 dBW/min the authorized emission bandwidth at any of the referenced coordinates may be examined to determine the extent of possible interference. Depending on the theoretical field strength value and existing root-sum-square or other ambient radio field signal levels at the referenced coordinates, a condition to protect the monitoring station may be included in the station authorization.

(2) In the event that the calculated value of the expected field strength exceeds 10 mV/m (-65.8 dBW/m) at the reference coordinates, or if there is any question whether field strength levels might exceed the threshold value, advance consultation with the FCC to discuss any protection necessary should be considered. See ยง 0.401 of this chapter for contact information.

(3) Advance consultation is suggested particularly for those applicants who have no reliable data which indicates whether the field strength or power flux density figure indicated would be exceeded by their proposed radio facilities (except mobile stations). In such instances, the following is a suggested guide for determining whether an applicant should coordinate:

(i) All stations within 2.5 kilometers;

(ii) Stations within 5 kilometers with 50 watts or more average effective radiated power (ERP) in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station;

(iii) Stations within 15 kilometers with 1 kW or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station;

(iv) Stations within 80 kilometers with 25 kW or more average ERP in the primary plane of polarization in the azimuthal direction of the Monitoring Station.

(4) Advance coordination for stations operating above 1000 MHz is recommended only where the proposed station is in the vicinity of a monitoring station designated as a satellite monitoring facility in ยง 0.121(c) of this chapter and also meets the criteria outlined in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section.

(5) The Commission will not screen applications to determine whether advance consultation has taken place. However, applicants are advised that such consultation can avoid objections from the Federal Communications Commission or modification of any authorization which will cause harmful interference.

(h) Sites and frequencies for GSO and NGSO earth stations, operating in a frequency band where both have a co-primary allocation, shall be selected to avoid earth station antenna mainlobe-to-satellite antenna mainlobe coupling, between NGSO systems and between NGSO and GSO systems, in order to minimize the possibility of harmful interference between these services. Prior to filing an earth station application, in bands with co-primary allocations to NGSO and GSO earth stations, the applicant shall coordinate the proposed site and frequency usage with existing earth station licensees and with current earth station authorization applicants.
