
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### § 25.220 Non-routine transmit/receive earth station operations.

(a) The requirements in this section apply to applications for, and operation of, earth stations transmitting in the conventional or extended C-bands, the conventional or extended Ku-bands, or the conventional or extended Ka -bands that do not qualify for routine licensing under relevant criteria in § 25.211, § 25.212, or § 25.218.

(b) Applications filed pursuant to this section must include the information required by § 25.115(g)(1).

(c) [Reserved]

(d)(1) The applicant must submit the certifications listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section. The applicant will be authorized to transmit only to the satellite systems included in the coordination agreements referred to in the certification required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. The applicant will be granted protection from receiving interference only with respect to the satellite systems included in the coordination agreements referred to in the certification required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, and only to the extent that protection from receiving interference is afforded by those coordination agreements.

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) A statement from the satellite operator that it has coordinated the operation of the subject non-conforming earth station accessing its satellite(s), including its required downlink power density based on the information contained in the application, with all adjacent satellite networks within 6&#xB0; of orbital separation from its satellite(s), and the operations will operate in conformance with existing coordination agreement for its satellite(s) with other satellite systems, except as set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(iii) A statement from the satellite operator that it will include the subject non-conforming earth station operations in all future satellite network coordinations, and

(iv) A statement from the earth station applicant certifying that it will comply with all coordination agreements reached by the satellite operator(s).

(2) Unless the non-routine uplink transmission levels are permitted under a coordination agreement with the space station operator, or unless coordination with the operator is not required pursuant to § 25.140(d)(3) or (d)(4), the operator of an earth station licensed pursuant to this section must reduce its transmitted EIRP density to levels at or within relevant routine limits:

(i) Toward the part of the geostationary orbit arc within one degree of a subsequently launched, two-degree-compliant space station receiving in the same uplink band at an orbital location within six degrees of the earth station's target satellite, and

(ii) Toward a two-degree-compliant space station receiving in the same uplink band at an orbital location more than six degrees away from the target satellite if co-frequency reception by the space station is adversely affected by the non-routine earth station transmission levels.

(3) In the event that a coordination agreement discussed in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section is reached, but that coordination agreement does not address protection from interference for the earth station, that earth station will be protected from interference to the same extent that an earth station that meets the requirements of § 25.209 of this title would be protected from interference.

(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, a party applying for an earth station license pursuant to this section will not be required to certify that its target satellite operator has reached a coordination agreement with another satellite operator whose satellite is within 6&#xB0; of orbital separation from its satellite in cases where the off-axis EIRP density level of the proposed earth station operations will be less than or equal to the levels specified by the applicable off-axis EIRP envelope set forth in § 25.218 of this chapter in the direction of the part of the geostationary orbit arc within 1&#xB0; of the nominal orbit location of the adjacent satellite.

(e)-(f) [Reserved]

(g) Applicants filing applications for earth stations pursuant to this section must provide the following information for the Commission's public notice:

(1) Detailed description of the service to be provided, including frequency bands and satellites to be used. The applicant must identify either the specific satellites with which it plans to operate, or the eastern and western boundaries of the geostationary satellite orbit arc it plans to coordinate.

(2) The diameter or equivalent diameter of the antenna.

(3) Proposed power and power density levels.

(4) Identification of any rule or rules for which a waiver is requested.
