
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 25.228 Operating and coordination requirements for earth stations in motion (ESIMs).

(a) GSO FSS ESIM transmissions must comport with the applicable EIRP density limits in ยง 25.218, unless coordinated pursuant to the requirements in ยง 25.220.

(b) Each FSS ESIM must be self-monitoring and, should a condition occur that would cause the ESIMs to exceed its authorized off-axis EIRP density limits in the case of GSO FSS ESIMs or any emission limits included in the licensing conditions in the case of NGSO FSS ESIMs, the ESIM must automatically cease transmissions within 100 milliseconds, and not resume transmissions until the condition that caused the ESIM to exceed those limits is corrected.

(c) Each FSS ESIM must be monitored and controlled by a network control and monitoring center (NCMC) or equivalent facility. Each ESIM must comply with a "disable transmission" command from the NCMC within 100 milliseconds of receiving the command. In addition, the NCMC must monitor the operation of each ESIM in its network, and transmit a "disable transmission" command to any ESIM that operates in such a way as to exceed the authorized off-axis EIRP density limit for GSO FSS ESIMs or any emission limits included in the licensing conditions in the case of NGSO FSS ESIMs. The NCMC must not allow the ESIM(s) under its control to resume transmissions until the condition that caused the ESIM(s) to exceed the authorized EIRP density limits is corrected.

(d) ESIM licensees must ensure installation of ESIM terminals on vehicles by qualified installers who have an understanding of the antenna's radiation environment and the measures best suited to maximize protection of the general public and persons operating the vehicle and equipment. An ESIM terminal exhibiting radiation exposure levels exceeding 1.0 mW/cmin accessible areas, such as at the exterior surface of the radome, must have a label attached to the surface of the terminal warning about the radiation hazard and must include thereon a diagram showing the regions around the terminal where the radiation levels could exceed the maximum radiation exposure limit specified in 47 CFR 1.1310 Table 1.

(e) The following requirements govern all ESV operations:

(1) ESV operators must control all ESVs by a NCMC or equivalent facility located in the United States, except that an ESV on U.S.-registered vessels may operate under control of a NCMC location outside the United States provided the ESV operator maintains a point of contact within the United States that will have the capability and authority to cause an ESV on a U.S.-registered vessel to cease transmitting if necessary.

(2) There must be a point of contact in the United States, with phone number and address, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with authority and ability to cease all emissions from the ESVs, either directly or through the facilities of a U.S. NCMC or a NCMC located in another country with which the United States has a bilateral agreement that enables such cessation of emissions.

(3) ESV NCMC operators communicating with ESVs on vessels of foreign registry must maintain detailed information on each such vessel's country of registry and a point of contact for the relevant administration responsible for licensing those ESVs.

(f) For all VMES operations, there must be a point of contact in the United States, with phone number and address, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with authority and ability to cease all emissions from the VMESs.

(g) The following requirements govern all ESAA operations:

(1) There must be a point of contact in the United States, with phone number and address, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with authority and ability to cease all emissions from the ESAAs.

(2) All ESAA terminals operated in U.S. airspace, whether on U.S.-registered civil aircraft or non-U.S.-registered civil aircraft, must be licensed by the Commission. All ESAA terminals on U.S.-registered civil aircraft operating outside of U.S. airspace must be licensed by the Commission, except as provided by section 303(t) of the Communications Act.

(3) Prior to operations within a foreign nation's airspace, the ESAA operator must ascertain whether the relevant administration has operations that could be affected by ESAA terminals, and must determine whether that administration has adopted specific requirements concerning ESAA operations. When the aircraft enters foreign airspace, the ESAA terminal must operate under the Commission's rules, or those of the foreign administration, whichever is more constraining. To the extent that all relevant administrations have identified geographic areas from which ESAA operations would not affect their radio operations, ESAA operators may operate within those identified areas without further action. To the extent that the foreign administration has not adopted requirements regarding ESAA operations, ESAA operators must coordinate their operations with any potentially affected operations.

(h) The following requirements govern all operations in the 3700-4200 MHz (space-to-Earth) and 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) frequency bands of ESVs receiving from or transmitting to GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service:

(1) ESVs must not operate in the 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) and 3700-4200 MHz (space-to-Earth) frequency bands on vessels smaller than 300 gross tons.

(2) ESV operators transmitting in the 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) frequency band to GSO satellites in the Fixed-Satellite Service (FSS) must not seek to coordinate, in any geographic location, more than 36 megahertz of uplink bandwidth on each of no more than two GSO FSS satellites.

(3) ESVs, operating while docked, for which coordination with terrestrial stations in the 3700-4200 MHz band is completed in accordance with ยง 25.251, will receive protection from such terrestrial stations in accordance with the coordination agreements, for 180 days, renewable for 180 days.

(4) ESVs in motion must not claim protection from harmful interference from any authorized terrestrial stations to which frequencies are already assigned, or any authorized terrestrial station to which frequencies may be assigned in the future in the 3700-4200 MHz (space-to-Earth) frequency band.
