
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 25 - SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 25.228 Operating and coordination requirements for earth stations in motion (ESIMs).
####### esm@nsf.gov.

(3) Operations of ESIMs in the 14.47-14.5 GHz (Earth-to-space) frequency band in the vicinity (for ESVs and VMESs) or within radio line of sight (for ESAAs) of radio astronomy service (RAS) observatories observing in the 14.47-14.5 GHz band are subject to coordination with the National Science Foundation (NSF). The appropriate NSF contact point to initiate coordination is Electromagnetic Spectrum Management Unit, NSF, Division of Astronomical Sciences, 2415 Eisenhower Avenue, Arlington VA 22314; Email:Licensees must notify the Space Bureau once they have completed coordination. Upon receipt of the coordination agreement from a licensee, the Space Bureau will issue a public notice stating that the licensee may commence operations within the coordination zone in 30 days if no party has opposed the operations. Table 1 provides a list of each applicable RAS site, its location, and the applicable coordination zone.

(4) When NTIA seeks to provide similar protection to future RAS sites that have been coordinated through the IRAC Frequency Assignment Subcommittee process, NTIA will notify the Commission's Space Bureau that the site is nearing operational status. Upon public notice from the Space Bureau, all Ku-band ESIMs licensees must cease operations in the 14.47-14.5 GHz band within the relevant geographic zone (160 kms for single-dish radio observatories and Very Large Array antenna systems and 50 kms for Very Long Baseline Array antenna systems for ESVs and VMESs, radio line of sight for ESAAs) of the new RAS site until the licensees complete coordination for the new RAS facility. Licensees must notify the Space Bureau once they have completed coordination for the new RAS site and must submit the coordination agreement to the Commission. Upon receipt of such notification from a licensee, the Space Bureau will issue a public notice stating that the licensee may commence operations within the coordination zone in 30 days if no party opposed the operations. The ESIMs licensee then will be permitted to commence operations in the 14.47-14.5 GHz band within the relevant coordination distance around the new RAS site, subject to any operational constraints developed in the coordination process.

(5) ESIMs licensees must use Global Positioning Satellite-related or other similar position location technology to ensure compliance with the provisions of subparagraphs 1-3 of this paragraph.
