
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 27.5 Frequencies.
####### Post transition frequency assignments.

(2)The frequencies available in the Broadband Radio Service (BRS) and Educational Broadband Service (EBS) are listed in this section in accordance with the frequency allocations table of ยง 2.106 of this chapter.

(i) Lower Band Segment (LBS): The following channels shall constitute the Lower Band Segment:

(ii) Middle Band Segment (MBS): The following channels shall constitute the Middle Band Segment:

(iii) Upper Band Segment (UBS): The following channels shall constitute the Upper Band Segment:

(3) [Reserved]

(4) A temporary fixed broadband station may use any available broadband channel on a secondary basis, except that operation of temporary fixed broadband stations is not allowed within 56.3 km (35 miles) of Canada.

(5)(i) A point-to-point EBS station on the E and F-channel frequencies, may be involuntarily displaced by a BRS applicant or licensee, provided that suitable alternative spectrum is available and that the BRS entity bears the expenses of the migration. Suitability of spectrum will be determined on a case-by-base basis; at a minimum, the alternative spectrum must be licensable by broadband operators on a primary basis (although it need not be specifically allocated to the broadband service), and must provide a signal that is equivalent to the prior signal in picture quality and reliability, unless the broadband licensee will accept an inferior signal. Potential expansion of the BRS licensee may be considered in determining whether alternative available spectrum is suitable.

(ii) If suitable alternative spectrum is located pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section, the initiating party must prepare and file the appropriate application for the new spectrum, and must simultaneously serve a copy of the application on the EBS licensee to be moved. The initiating party will be responsible for all costs connected with the migration, including purchasing, testing and installing new equipment, labor costs, reconfiguration of existing equipment, administrative costs, legal and engineering expenses necessary to prepare and file the migration application, and other reasonable documented costs. The initiating party must secure a bond or establish an escrow account to cover reasonable incremental increase in ongoing expenses that may fall upon the migrated licensee. The bond or escrow account should also account for the possibility that the initiating party subsequently becomes bankrupt. If it becomes necessary for the Commission to assess the sufficiency of a bond or escrow amount, it will take into account such factors as projected incremental increase in electricity or maintenance expenses, or relocation expenses, as relevant in each case.

(iii) The EBS licensee to be moved will have a 60-day period in which to oppose the involuntary migration. The broadband party should state its opposition to the migration with specificity, including engineering and other challenges, and a comparison of the present site and the proposed new site. If involuntary migration is granted, the new facilities must be operational before the initiating party will be permitted to begin its new or modified operations. The migration must not disrupt the broadband licensee's provision of service, and the broadband licensee has the right to inspect the construction or installation work.
