
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Hearing Proceedings
###### Hearings on a Written Record
####### § 1.376 Oral hearing or argument.
######## See

(a) Notwithstanding any requirement in the designation order that the hearing be conducted and resolved on a written record, a party may file a motion to request an oral hearing pursuant to § 1.291. Any such motion shall be filed after the submission of all the pleadings but no later than the date established in the scheduling order.§§ 1.248 and 1.372 through 1.374. The motion shall contain a list of genuine disputes as to outcome-determinative facts that the movant contends cannot adequately be resolved on a written record and a list of witnesses whose live testimony would be required to resolve such disputes. The motion also shall contain supporting legal analysis, including citations to relevant authorities and parts of the record. If the presiding officer finds that there is a genuine dispute as to an outcome-determinative fact that cannot adequately be resolved on a written record, the presiding officer shall conduct an oral hearing limited to testimony and cross-examination necessary to resolve that dispute.

(b) The presiding officer may, on his or her own motion following the receipt of all written submissions, conduct an oral hearing to resolve a genuine dispute as to an outcome-determinative fact that the presiding officer finds cannot adequately be resolved on a written record. Any such oral hearing shall be limited to testimony and cross-examination necessary to resolve that dispute.

(c) Oral argument shall be permitted only if the presiding officer determines that oral argument is necessary to resolution of the hearing.
