
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### § 27.11 Initial authorization.
####### 746-758 MHz, 775-788 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands.

(c)Initial authorizations for the 746-758 MHz, 775-788 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands shall be for paired channels of 1, 5, 6, or 11 megahertz of spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(b).

(1) Authorizations for Block A, consisting of two paired channels of 1 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(1).

(2) Authorizations for Block B, consisting of two paired channels of 1 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(1).

(3) Authorizations for Block C, consisting of two paired channels of 11 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(2). In the event that no licenses granting authorizations for Block C, consisting of two paired channels of 11 megahertz each, are assigned based on the results of the first auction in which such licenses are offered because the auction results do not satisfy the applicable reserve price, then the authorizations for the spectrum in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands will instead be as follows:

(i) Authorizations for Block C1, consisting of two paired channels of 6 megahertz each in the 746-752 MHz and 776-782 MHz bands, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(2)(i).

(ii) Authorizations for Block C2, consisting of two paired channels of 5 megahertz each in the 752-757 MHz and 782-787 MHz bands, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(2)(ii).
