
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Applications and Licenses
###### § 27.14 Construction requirements.
####### e.g.,

(4) Under paragraph (p)(2) and (p)(3) of this section, each fixed link must provide a minimum bit rate, in bits per second, equal to or greater than the bandwidth specified by the emission designator in Hertz (equipment transmitting at a 5 Mb/s rate must not require a bandwidth of greater than 5 MHz).

(5) If an initial authorization for a license area is granted after March 13, 2013, then the applicable benchmarks in paragraphs (p)(1), (2) and (3) of this section must be met within 48 and 78 months, respectively, of the initial authorization grant date.

(6) Licensees must use the most recently available U.S. Census Data at the time of measurement to meet these performance requirements.

(7) Licensees must certify compliance with the applicable performance requirements by filing a construction notification with the Commission, within 15 days of the expiration of the relevant performance milestone, pursuant to § 1.946(d) of this chapter. Each construction notification must include electronic coverage maps, supporting technical documentation, and any other information as the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau may prescribe by public notice. Electronic coverage maps must accurately depict the boundaries of each license area (Regional Economic Area Grouping, REAG, or Major Economic Area, MEA) in the licensee's service territory. Further, REAG maps must depict MEA boundaries and MEA maps must depict Economic Area boundaries. If a licensee does not provide reliable signal coverage to an entire license area, its map must accurately depict the boundaries of the area or areas within each license area not being served. Each licensee also must file supporting documentation certifying the type of service it is providing for each REAG or MEA within its service territory and the type of technology used to provide such service. Supporting documentation must include the assumptions used to create the coverage maps, including the propagation model and the signal strength necessary to provide reliable service with the licensee's technology.

(8) If a licensee fails to meet any applicable performance requirement, its authorization will terminate automatically without further Commission action as of the applicable performance milestone and the licensee will be ineligible to regain it.

(q) The following provisions apply to any licensee holding an AWS authorization in the 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands (an "AWS-4 licensee"):

(1) An AWS-4 licensee shall provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service within four (4) years from the date of the license to at least forty (40) percent of the total population in the aggregate service areas that it has licensed in the 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands ("AWS-4 Interim Buildout Requirement"). For purposes of this subpart, a licensee's total population shall be calculated by summing the population of each license area that a licensee holds in the 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands; and

(2) An AWS-4 licensee shall provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service within seven (7) years from the date of the license to at least seventy (70) percent of the population in each of its license areas in the 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands ("AWS-4 Final Buildout Requirement").

(3) If any AWS-4 licensee fails to establish that it meets the AWS-4 Interim Buildout Requirement, the AWS-4 Final Buildout requirement shall be accelerated by one year from (seven to six years).

(4) If any AWS-4 licensee fails to establish that it meets the AWS-4 Final Buildout Requirement in any of its license areas in the 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands, its authorization for each license area in which it fails to meet the requirement shall terminate automatically without Commission action. To the extent that the AWS-4 licensee also holds the 2 GHz MSS rights for the affected license area, failure to meet the AWS-4 Final Buildout Requirement in an EA shall also result in the MSS protection rule in § 27.1136 no longer applying in that license area.

(5) To demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, licensees shall use the most recently available U.S. Census Data at the time of measurement and shall base their measurements of population served on areas no larger than the Census Tract level. The population within a specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) will only be deemed served by the licensee if it provides signal coverage to and offers service within the specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier). To the extent the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) extends beyond the boundaries of a license area, a licensee with authorizations for such areas may only include the population within the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) towards meeting the performance requirement of a single, individual license.

(6) Failure by any AWS-4 licensee to meet the AWS-4 Final Buildout Requirement in paragraph (q)(4) of this section will result in forfeiture of the license and the licensee will be ineligible to regain it.

(r) The following provisions apply to any licensee holding an AWS authorization in the 1915-1920 MHz and 1995-2000 MHz bands:

(1) A licensee shall provide signal coverage and offer service within four (4) years from the date of the initial license to at least forty (40) percent of the population in each of its licensed areas ("Interim Buildout Requirement").

(2) A licensee shall provide signal coverage and offer service within ten (10) years from the date of the initial license to at least seventy-five (75) percent of the population in each of its licensed areas ("Final Buildout Requirement").

(3) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Interim Buildout Requirement for a particular licensed area, then the Final Buildout Requirement (in this paragraph (r)) and the license term (as set forth in § 27.13(j)) for each license area in which it fails to meet the Interim Buildout Requirement shall be accelerated by two years (from ten to eight years).

(4) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Final Buildout Requirement for a particular licensed area, its authorization for each license area in which it fails to meet the Final Buildout Requirement shall terminate automatically without Commission action and the licensee will be ineligible to regain it if the Commission makes the license available at a later date.

(5) To demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, licensees shall use the most recently available U.S. Census Data at the time of measurement and shall base their measurements of population served on areas no larger than the Census Tract level. The population within a specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) will only be deemed served by the licensee if it provides signal coverage to and offers service within the specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier). To the extent the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) extends beyond the boundaries of a license area, a licensee with authorizations for such areas may only include the population within the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) towards meeting the performance requirement of a single, individual license.

(s) The following provisions apply to any licensee holding an AWS authorization in the 1695-1710 MHz, 1755-1780 MHz, and 2155-2180 MHz bands:

(1) A licensee shall provide reliable signal coverage and offer service within six (6) years from the date of the initial license to at least forty (40) percent of the population in each of its licensed areas ("Interim Buildout Requirement").

(2) A licensee shall provide reliable signal coverage and offer service within twelve (12) years from the date of the initial license to at least seventy-five (75) percent of the population in each of its licensed areas ("Final Buildout Requirement").

(3) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Interim Buildout Requirement for a particular licensed area, then the Final Buildout Requirement (in this paragraph (s)) and the AWS license term (as set forth in § 27.13(k)) for each license area in which it fails to meet the Interim Buildout Requirement shall be accelerated by two (2) years (from twelve (12) to ten (10) years).

(4) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Final Buildout Requirement for a particular licensed area, its authorization for each license area in which it fails to meet the Final Buildout Requirement shall terminate automatically without Commission action and the licensee will be ineligible to regain it if the Commission makes the license available at a later date.

(5) To demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, licensees shall use the most recently available U.S. Census Data at the time of measurement and shall base their measurements of population served on areas no larger than the Census Tract level. The population within a specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) will be deemed served by the licensee only if it provides signal coverage to and offers service within the specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier). To the extent the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) extends beyond the boundaries of a license area, a licensee with authorizations for such areas may include only the population within the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) towards meeting the performance requirement of a single, individual license. For the Gulf of Mexico license area, the licensee shall demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, using off-shore platforms, including production, manifold, compression, pumping and valving platforms as a proxy for population in the Gulf of Mexico.

(t) The following provisions apply to any licensee holding an authorization in the 600 MHz band:

(1) A licensee shall provide reliable signal coverage and offer service within six (6) years from the date of the initial license to at least forty (40) percent of the population in each of its license areas ("Interim Buildout Requirement").

(2) A licensee shall provide reliable signal coverage and offer service within twelve (12) years from the date of the initial license to at least seventy-five (75) percent of the population in each of its license areas ("Final Buildout Requirement").

(3) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Interim Buildout Requirement for a particular licensed area, then the Final Buildout Requirement (in this paragraph (t)) and the license term (as set forth in § 27.13(l)) for each license area in which it fails to meet the Interim Buildout Requirement shall be accelerated by two (2) years (from twelve (12) to ten (10) years).

(4) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Final Buildout Requirement for a particular license area, its authorization for each license area in which it fails to meet the Final Buildout Requirement shall terminate automatically without Commission action, and the licensee will be ineligible to regain it if the Commission makes the license available at a later date.

(5) To demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, licensees shall use the most recently available decennial U.S. Census Data at the time of measurement and shall base their measurements of population served on areas no larger than the Census Tract level. The population within a specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) will be deemed served by the licensee only if it provides reliable signal coverage to and offers service within the specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier). To the extent the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) extends beyond the boundaries of a license area, a licensee with authorizations for such areas may include only the population within the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) towards meeting the performance requirement of a single, individual license. For the Gulf of Mexico license area, the licensee shall demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, using off-shore platforms, including production, manifold, compression, pumping and valving platforms as a proxy for population in the Gulf of Mexico.

(u) This section enumerates performance requirements for EBS licenses initially issued after October 25, 2019. Licensees shall demonstrate compliance with performance requirements by filing a construction notification with the Commission, within 15 days of the expiration of the applicable benchmark, in accordance with the provisions set forth in § 1.946(d) of this chapter.

(1) All EBS licenses initially issued after October 25, 2019, must demonstrate compliance with the performance requirements described in this paragraph (u). All equipment used to demonstrate compliance must be in use and actually providing service, either for internal use or to unaffiliated customers, as of the interim deadline or final deadline, whichever is applicable.

(2) Except for licensees with licenses applied for in the Tribal Priority Window, licensees providing mobile or point-to-multipoint service must demonstrate reliable signal coverage of 50% of the population of the geographic service area within four years of initial license grant, and 80% of the population of the geographic service area within eight years of initial license grant.

(3) Except for licensees with licenses applied for in the Tribal Priority Window, licensees providing fixed point-to-point service must demonstrate operation of one link for each 50,000 persons in the geographic service area within four years of initial license grant, and one link for each 25,000 persons in the geographic service area within eight years of initial license grant.

(4) Licensees with licenses applied for in the Tribal Priority Window must make an interim showing under paragraph (u)(2) or (3) of this section within two years of initial license grant. Licensees with licenses applied for in the Tribal Priority Window must make a final showing under paragraph (u)(2) or (3) of this section within five years of initial license grant.

(5) If an EBS licensee (other than the licensee of a license issued pursuant to the Tribal Priority Window) fails to meet interim performance requirements described in paragraph (u)(2) or (3) of this section, the deadline for that authorization to meet its final performance requirement will be advanced by two years. If an EBS licensee of a license issued pursuant to the Tribal Priority Window fails to meet interim performance requirements described in paragraph (u)(2) or (3) of this section, the deadline for that authorization to meet its final performance requirement will be advanced by one year. If an EBS licensee fails to meet its final performance requirement, its license shall automatically terminate without specific Commission action.

(v) The following provisions apply to any licensee holding an authorization in the 3700-3980 MHz band:

(1) Licensees relying on mobile or point-to-multipoint service shall provide reliable signal coverage and offer service within eight (8) years from the date of the initial license to at least forty-five (45) percent of the population in each of its license areas ("First Buildout Requirement"). Licensee shall provide reliable signal coverage and offer service within twelve (12) years from the date of the initial license to at least eighty (80) percent of the population in each of its license areas ("Second Buildout Requirement"). Licensees relying on point-to-point service shall demonstrate within eight years of the license issue date that they have four links operating and providing service to customers or for internal use if the population within the license area is equal to or less than 268,000 and, if the population is greater than 268,000, that they have at least one link in operation and providing service to customers, or for internal use, per every 67,000 persons within a license area ("First Buildout Requirement"). Licensees relying on point-to-point service shall demonstrate within 12 years of the license issue date that they have eight links operating and providing service to customers or for internal use if the population within the license area is equal to or less than 268,000 and, if the population within the license area is greater than 268,000, shall demonstrate they are providing service and have at least two links in operation per every 67,000 persons within a license area ("Second Buildout Requirement").

(2) In the alternative, a licensee offering Internet of Things-type services shall provide geographic area coverage within eight (8) years from the date of the initial license to thirty-five (35) percent of the license ("First Buildout Requirement"). A licensee offering Internet of Things-type services shall provide geographic area coverage within twelve (12) years from the date of the initial license to sixty-five (65) percent of the license ("Second Buildout Requirement").

(3) If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the First Buildout Requirement for a particular license area, the licensee's Second Buildout Requirement deadline and license term will be reduced by two years. If a licensee fails to establish that it meets the Second Buildout Requirement for a particular license area, its authorization for each license area in which it fails to meet the Second Buildout Requirement shall terminate automatically without Commission action, and the licensee will be ineligible to regain it if the Commission makes the license available at a later date.

(4) To demonstrate compliance with these performance requirements, licensees shall use the most recently available decennial U.S. Census Data at the time of measurement and shall base their measurements of population or geographic area served on areas no larger than the Census Tract level. The population or area within a specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) will be deemed served by the licensee only if it provides reliable signal coverage to and offers service within the specific Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier). To the extent the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) extends beyond the boundaries of a license area, a licensee with authorizations for such areas may include only the population or geographic area within the Census Tract (or other acceptable identifier) towards meeting the performance requirement of a single, individual license. If a licensee does not provide reliable signal coverage to an entire license area, the license must provide a map that accurately depicts the boundaries of the area or areas within each license area not being served. Each licensee also must file supporting documentation certifying the type of service it is providing for each licensed area within its service territory and the type of technology used to provide such service. Supporting documentation must include the assumptions used to create the coverage maps, including the propagation model and the signal strength necessary to provide reliable service with the licensee's technology.

(w) The following provisions apply to any licensee holding an authorization in the 3450-3550 MHz band:
