
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### § 27.50 Power limits and duty cycle.
####### Prohibition on external vehicle-mounted antennas.

(iv)The use of external vehicle-mounted antennas for mobile and portable stations transmitting in the 2305-2315 MHz band or the 2350-2360 MHz band is prohibited.

(b) The following power and antenna height limits apply to transmitters operating in the 746-758 MHz, 775-788 MHz and 805-806 MHz bands:

(1) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 757-758 and 775-776 MHz bands must not exceed an effective radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m height above average terrain (HAAT), except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section.

(2) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section.

(3) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 2 of this section.

(4) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 3 of this section.

(5) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 4 of this section.

(6) Licensees of fixed or base stations transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must comply with the provisions set forth in paragraph (b)(8) of this section and § 27.55(c).

(7) Licensees seeking to operate a fixed or base station located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must:

(i) Coordinate in advance with all licensees authorized to operate in the 698-758 MHz, 775-788, and 805-806 MHz bands within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station;

(ii) coordinate in advance with all regional planning committees, as identified in § 90.527 of this chapter, with jurisdiction within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station.

(8) Licensees authorized to transmit in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands and intending to operate a base or fixed station at a power level permitted under the provisions of paragraph (b)(6) of this section must provide advanced notice of such operation to the Commission and to licensees authorized in their area of operation. Licensees who must be notified are all licensees authorized to operate in the 758-775 MHz and 788-805 MHz bands under part 90 of this chapter within 75 km of the base or fixed station and all regional planning committees, as identified in § 90.527 of this chapter, with jurisdiction within 75 km of the base or fixed station. Notifications must provide the location and operating parameters of the base or fixed station, including the station's ERP, antenna coordinates, antenna height above ground, and vertical antenna pattern, and such notifications must be provided at least 90 days prior to the commencement of station operation.

(9) Control stations and mobile stations transmitting in the 746-757 MHz, 776-788 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands and fixed stations transmitting in the 787-788 MHz and 805-806 MHz bands are limited to 30 watts ERP.

(10) Portable stations (hand-held devices) transmitting in the 746-757 MHz, 776-788 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands are limited to 3 watts ERP.

(11) For transmissions in the 757-758, 775-776, 787-788, and 805-806 MHz bands, maximum composite transmit power shall be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of RMS-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, etc., so as to obtain a true maximum composite measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

(12) For transmissions in the 746-757 and 776-787 MHz bands, licensees may employ equipment operating in compliance with either the measurement techniques described in paragraph (b)(11) of this section or a Commission-approved average power technique. In both instances, equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 27.51.

(c) The following power and antenna height requirements apply to stations transmitting in the 600 MHz band and the 698-746 MHz band:

(1) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an effective radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m height above average terrain (HAAT), except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section;

(2) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 2 of this section;

(3) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 3 of this section;

(4) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 4 of this section;

(5) Licensees, except for licensees operating in the 600 MHz downlink band, seeking to operate a fixed or base station located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must:

(i) Coordinate in advance with all licensees authorized to operate in the 698-758 MHz, 775-788, and 805-806 MHz bands within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station;

(ii) coordinate in advance with all regional planning committees, as identified in § 90.527 of this chapter, with jurisdiction within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station.

(6) Licensees of fixed or base stations transmitting a signal at an ERP greater than 1000 watts and greater than 1000 watts/MHz must comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(8) of this section and § 27.55(b), except that licensees of fixed or base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, must comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(8) of this section and § 27.55(b) only if transmitting a signal at an ERP greater than 2000 watts and greater than 2000 watts/MHz;

(7) A licensee authorized to operate in the 710-716 or 740-746 MHz bands may operate a fixed or base station at an ERP up to a total of 50 kW within its authorized, 6 megahertz spectrum block if the licensee complies with the provisions of § 27.55(b). The antenna height for such stations is limited only to the extent required to satisfy the requirements of § 27.55(b).

(8) Licensees intending to operate a base or fixed station at a power level permitted under the provisions of paragraph (c)(6) of this section must provide advanced notice of such operation to the Commission and to licensees authorized in their area of operation. Licensees who must be notified are all licensees authorized under this part to operate on an adjacent spectrum block within 75 km of the base or fixed station. Notifications must provide the location and operating parameters of the base or fixed station, including the station's ERP, antenna coordinates, antenna height above ground, and vertical antenna pattern, and such notifications must be provided at least 90 days prior to the commencement of station operation.

(9) Control and mobile stations in the 698-746 MHz band are limited to 30 watts ERP.

(10) Portable stations (hand-held devices) in the 600 MHz uplink band and the 698-746 MHz band, and fixed and mobile stations in the 600 MHz uplink band are limited to 3 watts ERP.

(11) Licensees may employ equipment operating in compliance with either the measurement techniques described in paragraph (b)(11) of this section or a Commission-approved average power technique. In both instances, equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 27.51.

(12) A licensee authorized to operate in the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands may operate a fixed or base station at an ERP up to a total of 50 kW within its authorized, 6 megahertz spectrum block if the licensee complies with the provisions of § 27.55(b), obtains written concurrences from all affected licensees in the 698-746 MHz bands within 120 km of the proposed high power site, and files a copy of each written concurrences with the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau on FCC Form 601. The antenna height for such stations is limited only to the extent required to satisfy the requirements of § 27.55(b).

(13) Licensees authorized to operate in the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands must coordinate with licensees with uplink operations in the 698-716 MHz band to mitigate the potential for harmful interference. Licensees authorized to operate in the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands must mitigate harmful interference to licensees' uplink operations in the 698-716 MHz band within 30 days after receiving written notice from the affected licensees. A licensee authorized to operate in the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands must ensure that 716-728 MHz band transmissions are filtered at least to the extent that the 716-728 MHz band transmissions are filtered in markets where the 716-728 MHz band licensee holds any license in the 698-716 band, as applicable. For purposes of coordination and mitigations measures in paragraphs (i) and (iii) below, network will be deemed "deployed" as of the date upon which the network is able to support a commercial mobile or data service. The coordination and mitigation measures should include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) If a licensee operating in the 698-716 and 728-746 MHz band deploys a network after the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands licensee deploys a network on its 716-722 or 722-728 MHz spectrum in the same geographic market, the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands licensee will work with the licensee with uplink operations in the 698-716 MHz band to identify sites that will require additional filtering, and will help the licensee operating in the 698-716 and 728-746 MHz bands to identify proper filters;

(ii) The 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands licensee must permit licensees operating in the 698-716 and 728-746 MHz bands to collocate on the towers it owns at prevailing market rates; and

(iii) If a 698-716 and 728-746 MHz bands licensee deploys a network before a licensee in the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands deploys a network in the same geographic market, the 716-722 or 722-728 MHz bands licensee will work with licensees in the 698-716 and 728-746 MHz bands to identify sites that will need additional filtering and will purchase and pay for installation of required filters on such sites.

(d) The following power and antenna height requirements apply to stations transmitting in the 1695-1710 MHz, 1710-1755 MHz, 1755-1780 MHz, 1915-1920 MHz, 1995-2000 MHz, 2000-2020 MHz, 2110-2155 MHz, 2155-2180 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands:

(1) The power of each fixed or base station transmitting in the 1995-2000 MHz, 2110-2155 MHz, 2155-2180 MHz or 2180-2200 MHz band and located in any county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, is limited to:

(i) An equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) of 3280 watts when transmitting with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less;

(ii) An EIRP of 3280 watts/MHz when transmitting with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz.

(2) The power of each fixed or base station transmitting in the 1995-2000 MHz, the 2110-2155 MHz 2155-2180 MHz band, or 2180-2200 MHz band and situated in any geographic location other than that described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is limited to:

(i) An equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) of 1640 watts when transmitting with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less;

(ii) An EIRP of 1640 watts/MHz when transmitting with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz.

(3) A licensee operating a base or fixed station in the 2110-2155 MHz band utilizing a power greater than 1640 watts EIRP and greater than 1640 watts/MHz EIRP must coordinate such operations in advance with all Government and non-Government satellite entities in the 2025-2110 MHz band. A licensee operating a base or fixed station in the 2110-2180 MHz band utilizing power greater than 1640 watts EIRP and greater than 1640 watts/MHz EIRP must be coordinated in advance with the following licensees authorized to operate within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station operating in this band: All Broadband Radio Service (BRS) licensees authorized under this part in the 2155-2160 MHz band and all advanced wireless services (AWS) licensees authorized to operate on adjacent frequency blocks in the 2110-2180 MHz band.

(4) Fixed, mobile, and portable (hand-held) stations operating in the 1710-1755 MHz band and mobile and portable stations operating in the 1695-1710 MHz and 1755-1780 MHz bands are limited to 1 watt EIRP. Fixed stations operating in the 1710-1755 MHz band are limited to a maximum antenna height of 10 meters above ground. Mobile and portable stations operating in these bands must employ a means for limiting power to the minimum necessary for successful communications.

(5) Equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 24.51. Power measurements for transmissions by stations authorized under this section may be made either in accordance with a Commission-approved average power technique or in compliance with paragraph (d)(6) of this section. In measuring transmissions in this band using an average power technique, the peak-to-average ratio (PAR) of the transmission may not exceed 13 dB.

(6) Peak transmit power must be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of an rms-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, sensitivity, etc., so as to obtain a true peak measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

(7) Fixed, mobile, and portable (hand-held) stations operating in the 2000-2020 MHz band are limited to 2 watts EIRP, except that the total power of any portion of an emission that falls within the 2000-2005 MHz band may not exceed 5 milliwatts. A licensee of AWS-4 authority may enter into private operator-to-operator agreements with all 1995-2000 MHz licensees to operate in 2000-2005 MHz at power levels above 5 milliwatts EIRP; except the total power of the AWS-4 mobile emissions may not exceed 2 watts EIRP.

(8) A licensee operating a base or fixed station in the 2180-2200 MHz band utilizing a power greater than 1640 watts EIRP and greater than 1640 watts/MHz EIRP must be coordinated in advance with all AWS licensees authorized to operate on adjacent frequency blocks in the 2180-2200 MHz band.

(9) Fixed, mobile and portable (hand-held) stations operating in the 1915-1920 MHz band are limited to 300 milliwatts EIRP.

(10) A licensee operating a base or fixed station in the 1995-2000 MHz band utilizing a power greater than 1640 watts EIRP and greater than 1640 watts/MHz EIRP must be coordinated in advance with all PCS G Block licensees authorized to operate on adjacent frequency blocks in the 1990-1995 MHz band within 120 kilometers of the base or fixed station operating in this band.

(e) The following power limits apply to the paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands as well as the unpaired 1390-1392 MHz band (1.4 GHz band):

(1) Fixed stations transmitting in the 1390-1392 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands are limited to 2000 watts EIRP peak power. Fixed stations transmitting in the 1392-1395 MHz band are limited to 100 watts EIRP peak power.

(2) Mobile stations transmitting in the 1390-1392 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands are limited to 4 watts EIRP peak power. Mobile stations transmitting in the1392-1395 MHz band are limited to 1 watt EIRP peak power.

(f) The following power limits apply to the 1670-1675 MHz band:

(1) Fixed and base stations are limited to 2000 watts EIRP peak power.

(2) Mobile stations are limited to 4 watts EIRP peak power.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) The following power limits shall apply in the BRS and EBS:
