
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart B - Delegations of Authority
###### General Counsel
####### ยง 0.251 Authority delegated.

(a) The General Counsel is delegated authority to act as the "designated agency ethics official."

(b) Insofar as authority is not delegated to any other Bureau or Office, and with respect only to matters which are not in hearing status, the General Counsel is delegated authority:

(1) To act upon requests for extension of time within which briefs, comments or pleadings may be filed.

(2) To dismiss, as repetitious, any petition for reconsideration of a Commission order which disposed of a petition for reconsideration and which did not reverse, change, or modify the original order.

(3) To dismiss or deny petitions for rulemaking which are repetitive or moot or which, for other reasons, plainly do not warrant consideration by the Commission.

(4) To dismiss as repetitious any petition for reconsideration of a Commission order denying an application for review which fails to rely on new facts or changed circumstances.

(c) The General Counsel is delegated authority in adjudicatory hearing proceedings which are pending before the Commission en banc to act on all requests for relief, and to issue all appropriate orders, except those which involve final disposition on the merits of a previously specified issue concerning an applicant's basic qualifications or two or more applicants' comparative qualifications.

(d) When an adjudicatory proceeding is before the Commission for the issuance of a final order or decision, the General Counsel will make every effort to submit a draft order or decision for Commission consideration within four months of the filing of the last responsive pleading. If the Commission is unable to adopt an order or decision in such cases within five months of the last responsive pleading, it shall issue an order indicating that additional time will be required to resolve the case.

(e) The official record of all actions taken by the General Counsel pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section is contained in the original docket folder, which is maintained by the Reference Information Center.

(f) The General Counsel is delegated authority to issue written determinations on matters regarding the interception of telephone conversations. Nothing in this paragraph, however, shall affect the authority of the Inspector General to intercept or record telephone conversations as necessary in the conduct of investigations or audits.
