
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 27.53 Emission limits.
####### Private agreements.

(4)(i) For AWS operations in the 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz bands, to the extent a licensee establishes unified operations across the AWS blocks, that licensee may choose not to observe the emission limit specified in paragraph (h)(1), above, strictly between its adjacent block licenses in a geographic area, so long as it complies with other Commission rules and is not adversely affecting the operations of other parties by virtue of exceeding the emission limit.

(ii) For AWS operations in the 2000-2020 MHz band, a licensee may enter into private agreements with all licensees operating between 1995 and 2000 MHz to allow the 70 + 10 log(P) dB limit to be exceeded within the 1995-2000 MHz band.

(iii) An AWS licensee who is a party to a private agreement described in this section (4) must maintain a copy of the agreement in its station files and disclose it, upon request, to prospective AWS assignees, transferees, or spectrum lessees and to the Commission.

(i) When an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in this section.

(j)(1) For operations in the unpaired 1390-1392 MHz band and the paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with these provisions is based on the procedures described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(2) In the 1390-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands, licensees are encouraged to take all reasonable steps to ensure that unwanted emission power does not exceed the following levels in the band 1400-1427 MHz:

(i) For stations of point-to-point systems in the fixed service: -45 dBW/27 MHz.

(ii) For stations in the mobile service: -60 dBW/27 MHz.

(k) For operations in the 1670-1675 MHz, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with these provisions is based on the procedures described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
