
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 27.53 Emission limits.
####### 3.7 GHz Service.

(l)The following emission limits apply to stations transmitting in the 3700-3980 MHz band:

(1) For base station operations in the 3700-3980 MHz band, the conducted power of any emission outside the licensee's authorized bandwidth shall not exceed -13 dBm/MHz. Compliance with this paragraph (l)(1) is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater. However, in the 1 megahertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the licensee's frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed. The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power.

(2) For mobile operations in the 3700-3980 MHz band, the conducted power of any emission outside the licensee's authorized bandwidth shall not exceed -13 dBm/MHz. Compliance with this paragraph (l)(2) is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater. However, in the 1 megahertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the licensee's frequency block, the minimum resolution bandwidth for the measurement shall be either one percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter or 350 kHz. In the bands between 1 and 5 MHz removed from the licensee's frequency block, the minimum resolution bandwidth for the measurement shall be 500 kHz. The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power.

(m) For BRS and EBS stations, the power of any emissions outside the licensee's frequency bands of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) measured in watts in accordance with the standards below. If a licensee has multiple contiguous channels, out-of-band emissions shall be measured from the upper and lower edges of the contiguous channels.

(1) Prior to the transition, and thereafter, solely within the MBS, for analog operations with an EIRP in excess of -9 dBW, the signal shall be attenuated at the channel edges by at least 38 dB relative to the peak visual carrier, then linearly sloping from that level to at least 60 dB of attenuation at 1 MHz below the lower band edge and 0.5 MHz above the upper band edge, and attenuated at least 60 dB at all other frequencies.

(2) For digital base stations, the attenuation shall be not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB, unless a documented interference complaint is received from an adjacent channel licensee with an overlapping Geographic Service Area. Mobile Satellite Service licensees operating on frequencies below 2495 MHz may also submit a documented interference complaint against BRS licensees operating on channel BRS No. 1 on the same terms and conditions as adjacent channel BRS or EBS licensees. Provided that a documented interference complaint cannot be mutually resolved between the parties prior to the applicable deadline, then the following additional attenuation requirements shall apply:

(i) If a pre-existing base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a new or modified base station located 1.5 km or more away, within 24 hours of the receipt of a documented interference complaint the licensee of the new or modified base station must attenuate its emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block and shall immediately notify the complaining licensee upon implementation of the additional attenuation. No later than 60 days after the implementation of such additional attenuation, the licensee of the complaining base station must attenuate its base station emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the new or modified base station.

(ii) If a pre-existing base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a new or modified base station located less than 1.5 km away, within 24 hours of receipt of a documented interference complaint the licensee of the new or modified base station must attenuate its emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P)-20 log (Dkm/1.5) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the complaining licensee, or if both base stations are co-located, limit its undesired signal level at the pre-existing base station receiver(s) to no more than -107 dBm measured in a 5.5 megahertz bandwidth and shall immediately notify the complaining licensee upon such reduction in the undesired signal level. No later than 60 days after such reduction in the undesired signal level, the complaining licensee must attenuate its base station emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the new or modified base station.

(iii) If a new or modified base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a pre-existing base station located 1.5 km or more away, within 60 days of receipt of a documented interference complaint the licensee of each base station must attenuate its base station emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the other licensee.

(iv) If a new or modified base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a pre-existing base station located less than 1.5 km away, within 60 days of receipt of a documented interference complaint: (a) The licensee of the new or modified base station must attenuate its OOBE by at least 67 + 10 log (P)-20 log (Dkm/1.5) measured 3 megahertz above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the other licensee, or if the base stations are co-located, limit its undesired signal level at the other base station receiver(s) to no more than -107 dBm measured in a 5.5-megahertz bandwidth; and (b) the licensee causing the interference must attenuate its emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the new or modified base station.

(v) For all fixed digital user stations, the attenuation factor shall be not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB at the channel edge.

(3) Prior to transition and thereafter solely within the MBS, and notwithstanding paragraph (l)(2) of this section, the maximum out-of-band power of a digital transmitter operating on a single 6 MHz channel with an EIRP in excess of -9 dBW employing digital modulation for the primary purpose of transmitting video programming shall be attenuated at the 6 MHz channel edges at least 25 dB relative to the licensed average 6 MHz channel power level, then attenuated along a linear slope to at least 40 dB at 250 kHz beyond the nearest channel edge, then attenuated along a linear slope from that level to at least 60 dB at 3 MHz above the upper and below the lower licensed channel edges, and attenuated at least 60 dB at all other frequencies.

(4) For mobile digital stations, the attenuation factor shall be not less than 40 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between the channel edge and 5 megahertz from the channel edge, 43 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 5 megahertz and X megahertz from the channel edge, and 55 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies more than X megahertz from the channel edge, where X is the greater of 6 megahertz or the actual emission bandwidth as defined in paragraph (m)(6) of this section. In addition, the attenuation factor shall not be less that 43 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2490.5 MHz and 2496 MHz and 55 + 10 log (P) dB at or below 2490.5 MHz. Mobile Satellite Service licensees operating on frequencies below 2495 MHz may also submit a documented interference complaint against BRS licensees operating on channel BRS Channel 1 on the same terms and conditions as adjacent channel BRS or EBS licensees.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (l)(2) and (l)(4) of this section, prior to transition, a licensee may continue to operate facilities deployed as of January 10, 2005 provided that such facilities operate in compliance with the emission mask applicable to those services prior to January 10, 2005.
