
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 27.53 Emission limits.
####### 3.45 GHz Service.

(n)The following emission limits apply to stations transmitting in the 3450-3550 MHz band:

(1) For base station operations in the 3450-3550 MHz band, the conducted power of any emission outside the licensee's authorized bandwidth shall not exceed -13 dBm/MHz. Compliance with the provisions of this paragraph (n)(1) is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater. However, in the 1 megahertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the licensee's frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed, but limited to a maximum of 200 kHz. The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power. Notwithstanding the channel edge requirement of -13 dBm per megahertz, for base station operations in the 3450-3550 MHz band, the conducted power of any emission below 3440 MHz or above 3560 MHz shall not exceed -25 dBm/MHz, and the conducted power of emissions below 3430 MHz or above 3570 MHz shall not exceed -40 dBm/MHz.

(2) For mobile operations in the 3450-3550 MHz band, the conducted power of any emission outside the licensee's authorized bandwidth shall not exceed -13 dBm/MHz. Compliance with this paragraph (n)(2) is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater. However, in the 1 megahertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the licensee's frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed, but limited to a maximum of 200 kHz. In the bands between 1 and 5 MHz removed from the licensee's frequency block, the minimum resolution bandwidth for the measurement shall be 500 kHz. The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power.

(o) When an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in this section.
