
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### § 27.55 Power strength limits.
####### Field strength limits.

(a)For the following bands, the predicted or measured median field strength at any location on the geographical border of a licensee's service area shall not exceed the value specified unless the adjacent affected service area licensee(s) agree(s) to a different field strength. This value applies to both the initially offered service areas and to partitioned service areas.

(1) 1995-2000 MHz, 2110-2155, 2155-2180, 2180-2200, 2305-2320, and 2345-2360 MHz bands: 47 dBµV/m.

(2) 600 MHz, 698-758, and 775-787 MHz bands: 40 dBµV/m.

(3) The paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands and the unpaired 1390-1392 MHz band (1.4 GHz band): 47 dBµV/m.

(4) BRS and EBS: The predicted or measured median field strength at any location on the geographical border of a licensee's service area shall not exceed the value specified unless the adjacent affected service area licensee(s) agree(s) to a different field strength. This value applies to both the initially offered services areas and to partitioned services areas. Licensees may exceed this signal level where there is no affected licensee that is constructed and providing service. Once the affected licensee is providing service, the original licensee will be required to take whatever steps necessary to comply with the applicable power level at its GSA boundary, absent consent from the affected licensee.

(i) Prior to transition, the signal strength at any point along the licensee's GSA boundary does not exceed the greater of that permitted under the licensee's Commission authorizations as of January 10, 2005 or 47 dBµV/m.
