
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 27.72 Information sharing requirements.
####### Prior notice periods.

(b)WCS licensees that intend to operate a base or fixed station must, before commencing such operation, provide 10 business days prior notice to all SDARS licensees. WCS licensees that intend to modify an existing station must, before commencing such modified operation, provide 5 business days prior notice to all SDARS licensees. For the purposes of this section, a business day is defined by ยง 1.4(e)(2) of this chapter.

(1) For modifications other than changes in location, a licensee may provide notice within 24 hours after the modified operation if the modification does not result in a predicted increase of the power flux density (PFD) at ground level by more than 1 dB since the last advance notice was given. If a demonstration is made by the SDARS licensee that such modifications may cause harmful interference to SDARS receivers, WCS licensees will be required to provide notice 5 business days in advance of additional station modifications.

(2) WCS base and fixed stations operating below 2 watts equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) are exempt from the notice requirements set forth in this paragraph.

(3) WCS and SDARS licensees may enter into agreements regarding alternative notification procedures.
