
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 27.72 Information sharing requirements.
####### Duty to cooperate.

(e)WCS licensees must cooperate in good faith in the selection and use of new station sites and new frequencies to reduce interference and make the most effective use of the authorized facilities. WCS licensees should provide SDARS licensees as much lead time as practicable to provide ample time to conduct analyses and opportunity for prudent base station site selection prior to WCS licensees entering into real estate and tower leasing or purchasing agreements. WCS licensees must have sufficient operational flexibility in their network design to implement one or more technical solutions to remedy harmful interference. Licensees of stations suffering or causing harmful interference, as defined in ยง 27.64(d), must cooperate in good faith and resolve such problems by mutually satisfactory arrangements. If the licensees are unable to do so, the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, in consultation with the Office of Engineering and Technology and the Space Bureau, will consider the actions taken by the parties to mitigate the risk of and remedy any alleged interference. In determining the appropriate action, the Bureau will take into account the nature and extent of the interference and act promptly to remedy the interference. The Bureau may impose restrictions on WCS licensees, including specifying the transmitter power, antenna height, or other technical or operational measures to remedy the interference, and will take into account previous measures by the licensees to mitigate the risk of interference.
