
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart C - Technical Standards
###### ยง 27.73 WCS, AMT, and Goldstone coordination requirements.
####### i.e.,,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html,fr.inspection@nara.gov,www.itu.int/en/publications/Pages/default.aspx

(a) WCS licensees operating base and fixed stations in the 2345-2360 MHz band must, prior to operation of such stations, achieve a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement with the AMT entity(ies) (FCC licensee(s) and/or Federal operator(s)) for any AMT receiver facility within 45 kilometers or radio line of sight, whichever distance is larger, of the intended WCS base or fixed station location. The coordinator for the assignment of flight test frequencies in the 2360-2390 MHz band, Aerospace and Flight Test Radio Coordination Council (AFTRCC) or successors of AFTRCC, will facilitate a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement between the WCS licensee(s) and AMT entity(ies) for existing AMT receiver sites. The locations of current Federal and non-Federal AMT receiver sites may be obtained from AFTRCC at Post Office Box 12822 Wichita, KS 67277-2822, (316) 946-8826, or successor frequency coordinators of AFTRCC. Such coordination agreement shall provide protection to existing AMT receiver stations consistent with International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Recommendation ITU-R M.1459, "Protection criteria for telemetry systems in the aeronautical mobile service and mitigation techniques to facilitate sharing with geostationary broadcasting-satellite and mobile-satellite services in the frequency bands 1 452-1 525 MHz and 2 310-2 360 MHz May 2000 edition," adopted May 2000, as adjusted using generally accepted engineering practices and standards to take into account the local conditions and operating characteristics of the applicable AMT and WCS facilities. ITU-R M.1459 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FCC and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FCC through the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, phone: (202) 418-0270. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visitor email. The material may be obtained from ITU, Place des Nations, 1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland; website:.

(b) WCS licensees operating base and fixed stations in the 2305-2320 MHz band must, prior to operation of such stations, achieve a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) within 145 kilometers of the Goldstone, CA earth station site (35&#xB0;25&#x2032;33&#x2033; N, 116&#xB0;53&#x2032;23&#x2033; W).

(c) After base or fixed station operations commence, upon receipt of a complaint of harmful interference, the WCS licensee(s) receiving the complaint, no matter the distance from the NASA Goldstone, CA earth station or from an AMT site, operating in the 2305-2320 or 2345-2360 MHz bands, respectively, shall take all practicable steps to immediately eliminate the interference.
