
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart B - Delegations of Authority
###### General Counsel
####### § 0.251 Authority delegated.
######## ex parte

(g) The General Counsel is delegated authority to issue rulings on whether violations of therules have occurred and to impose appropriate sanctions. The General Counsel shall refer to the Enforcement Bureau for disposition pursuant to § 0.311(b) any matter in which a forfeiture or a citation under 47 U.S.C. 503(b)(5) may be warranted. If the Enforcement Bureau determines that forfeiture or a citation is not warranted, the matter shall be referred back to the General Counsel for appropriate action.

(h) The General Counsel is delegated authority to make determinations regarding and waive the applicability of section 4(b) of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. § 154(b)) and the Federal conflict of interest statutes (18 U.S.C. §§ 203, 205 and 208).

(i) The General Counsel is delegated authority to perform all administrative determinations provided for by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (1996) (DCIA), including, but not limited to the provisions of Title 31, U.S.C. 3711 to:

(1) Collect claims of the United States Government of money or property arising out of the activities of, or referred to, the Federal Communications Commission,

(2) Compromise a claim of the Government of not more than $100,000 (excluding interest) or such higher amount as the Attorney General of the United States may from time to time prescribe, and

(3) Suspend or end collection action on a claim of the Government of not more than $100,000 (excluding interest) when it appears that no person liable on the claim has the present or prospective ability to pay a significant amount of the claim or the cost of collecting the claim is likely to be more than the amount recovered.

(j) The General Counsel is delegated authority to act as the Commission's Chief FOIA Officer, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(j). In this role, the General Counsel is delegated authority to dismiss FOIA applications for review that are untimely, repetitious, or fail to articulate specific grounds for review.
