
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart K - 1915-1920 MHz and 1995-2000 MHz
###### Reimbursement Obligation of Licensees at 1915-1920 MHz and 1995-2000 MHz
####### ยง 27.1031 Reimbursement obligation of licensees at 1995-2000 MHz.
######## i.e.,

(a)(1) If Upper H Block licenses granted as a result of the first auction for this spectrum cover, collectively, at least forty (40) percent of the nation's population, the amount owed to Sprint by the winning bidder of each individual Upper H Block license granted as a result of the first auction will be determined by dividing the gross winning bid (GWB) for each individual Upper H Block license (an Economic Area (EA)) by the sum of the gross winning bids for all Upper H Block licenses for which there is a winning bid in the first auction, and then multiplying by $94,875,516.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a licensee that obtains a license for a market in which no license was granted as a result of the first Upper H Block auction will not have a reimbursement obligation to Sprint.

(b) If Upper H Block licenses granted as a result of the first auction for this spectrum cover, collectively, less than forty (40) percent of the nation's population, then the amount that the licensee of an individual Upper H Block license must reimburse Sprint shall be calculated by dividing the population of the individual EA by the total U.S. population, and then multiplying by $94,875,516. In this event, the same population data, e.g., 2010, used to calculate the RNs for Upper H Block licenses granted as a result of the first auction will apply to subsequent auctions of Upper H Block licenses that were not granted as a result of an earlier auction of Upper H Block licenses.

(c) A winning bidder of an Upper H Block license that is not granted a license for any reason will be deemed to have triggered a reimbursement obligation to Sprint. This obligation will be owed to Sprint by the licensee acquiring the Upper H Block license through a subsequent auction. The amount owed by the licensee acquiring the EA license at such auction will be based on the RN calculated for the EA license based on the first auction (calculated under paragraphs (a) or (b), as applicable, of this section).

(d) For purposes of compliance with this section, licensees should determine population based on 2010 U.S. Census Data or such other data or measurements that the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau proposes and adopts under the notice and comment process for the auction procedures.

(e) A payment obligation owed by a Upper H Block licensees under this section shall be made within thirty (30) days of the grant of the license (i.e., grant of the long form application).
