
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart L - 1695-1710 MHz, 1710-1755 MHz, 1755-1780 MHz, 2110-2155 MHz, 2155-2180 MHz, 2180-2200 MHz Bands
###### Protection of Incumbent Operations
####### ยง 27.1134 Protection of Federal Government operations.
######## Protection of Department of Defense operations in the 1710-1755 MHz band.

(a)The Department of Defense (DoD) operates communications systems in the 1710-1755 MHz band at 16 protected facilities, nationwide. AWS licensees must accept any interference received from these facilities and must protect the facilities from interference. AWS licensees shall protect the facilities from interference by restricting the operation of their base and fixed stations from any locations that could potentially permit AWS mobile, fixed, and portable stations transmitting in the 1710-1755 MHz band to cause interference to government operations within the radii of operation of the 16 facilities (the radii of operation of each facility is indicated in the third column of Table 1 immediately following paragraph (a)(3) of this section). In addition, AWS licensees shall be required to coordinate any operations that could permit mobile, fixed, and portable stations to operate in the specified areas of the 16 facilities, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Protection of these facilities in this manner shall take place under the following conditions:

(1) At the Yuma, Arizona and Cherry Point, North Carolina facilities, all operations shall be protected indefinitely.

(2) At the remaining 14 facilities, airborne and military test range operations shall be protected until such time as these systems are relocated to other spectrum, and precision guided munitions (PGM) operations shall be protected until such time as these systems are relocated to other spectrum or until PGM inventory at each facility is exhausted, whichever occurs first.

(3) AWS licensees whose transmit operations in the 1710-1755 MHz band consist of fixed or mobile operations with nominal transmit EIRP values of 100 mW or less and antenna heights of 1.6 meters above ground or less shall coordinate their services around the 16 sites at the distance specified in row a. of Table 2. AWS licensees whose transmit operations in the 1710-1755 MHz band consist of fixed or mobile operations with nominal transmit EIRP values of 1 W or less and antenna heights of 10 meters above ground or less shall coordinate their services around the 16 sites at the distance specified in row b. of Table 2. These coordination distances shall be measured from the edge of the operational distances indicated in the third column of Table 1, and coordination with each affected DoD facility shall be accomplished through the Commander of the facility.
