
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart L - 1695-1710 MHz, 1710-1755 MHz, 1755-1780 MHz, 2110-2155 MHz, 2155-2180 MHz, 2180-2200 MHz Bands
###### Cost-Sharing Policies Governing Broadband Radio Service Relocation From the 2150-2160/62 MHz Band
####### ยง 27.1182 Reimbursement under the Cost-Sharing Plan.
######## Registration of reimbursement rights.

(a)(1) To obtain reimbursement, an AWS relocator must submit documentation of the relocation agreement to the clearinghouse within 30 calendar days of the date a relocation agreement is signed with an incumbent. In the case of involuntary relocation, an AWS relocator must submit documentation of the relocated system within 30 calendar days after the end of the one-year trial period.

(2) Registration of any BRS system shall include:

(i) A description of the system's frequency use;

(ii) If the system exclusively provides one-way transmissions to subscribers, the Geographic Service Area of the system; and

(iii) If the system does not exclusively provide one-way transmission to subscribers, the system hub antenna's geographic location and the above ground level height of the system's receiving antenna centerline.

(3) The AWS relocator must also include with its system registration an independent third party appraisal of the compensable relocation costs. The appraisal should be based on the actual cost of replacing the incumbent's system with comparable facilities and should exclude the cost of any equipment upgrades that are not necessary to the provision of comparable facilities. An AWS relocator may submit registration without a third party appraisal if it consents to binding resolution by the clearinghouse of any good faith cost disputes regarding the reimbursement claim, under the following standard: The relocator shall bear the burden of proof, and be required to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that its request does not exceed the actual cost of relocating the relevant BRS system or systems to comparable facilities. Failure to satisfy this burden of proof will result in loss of rights to subsequent reimbursement of the disputed costs from any AWS licensee.
