
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Broadband Radio Service and Educational Broadband Service
###### Relocation Procedures for the 2150-2160/62 MHz Band
####### ยง 27.1252 Involuntary relocation procedures.

(a) If no agreement is reached during the mandatory negotiation period, an AWS licensee may initiate involuntary relocation procedures under the Commission's rules. AWS licensees are obligated to pay to relocate BRS systems to which the AWS system poses an interference problem. Under involuntary relocation, the BRS licensee is required to relocate, provided that the AWS licensee:

(1) Guarantees payment of relocation costs, including all engineering, equipment, site and FCC fees, as well as any legitimate and prudent transaction expenses incurred by the BRS licensee that are directly attributable to an involuntary relocation, subject to a cap of two percent of the "hard" costs involved. Hard costs are defined as the actual costs associated with providing a replacement system, such as equipment and engineering expenses. There is no cap on the actual costs of relocation. AWS licensees are not required to pay BRS licensees for internal resources devoted to the relocation process. AWS licensees are not required to pay for transaction costs incurred by BRS licensees during the mandatory period once the involuntary period is initiated, or for fees that cannot be legitimately tied to the provision of comparable facilities; and

(2) Completes all activities necessary for implementing the replacement facilities, including engineering and cost analysis of the relocation procedure and, if radio facilities are used, identifying and obtaining, on the incumbents' behalf, new microwave frequencies and frequency coordination.
