
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Complaints, Applications, Tariffs, and Reports Involving Common Carriers
###### Informal Complaints
####### § 1.719 Informal complaints filed pursuant to section 258.
######## Procedure.

(c)The Commission will resolve slamming complaints under the definitions and procedures established in §§ 64.1100 through 64.1190 of this chapter. The Commission will issue a written (or electronic) order informing the complainant, the unauthorized carrier, and the authorized carrier of its finding, and ordering the appropriate remedy, if any, as defined by §§ 64.1160 through 64.1170 of this chapter.

(d) Unsatisfied Informal Complaints Involving Unauthorized Changes of a Subscriber's Preferred Carrier; Formal Complaints Relating Back to the Filing Dates of Informal Complaints. If the complainant is unsatisfied with the resolution of a complaint under this section, the complainant may file a formal complaint with the Commission in the form specified in § 1.721. Such filing will be deemed to relate back to the filing date of the informal complaint filed under this section, so long as the informal complaint complied with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and provided that: The formal complaint is filed within 45 days from the date an order resolving the informal complaint filed under this section is mailed or delivered electronically to the complainant; makes reference to both the informal complaint number assigned to and the initial date of filing the informal complaint filed under this section; and is based on the same cause of action as the informal complaint filed under this section. If no formal complaint is filed within the 45-day period, the complainant will be deemed to have abandoned its right to bring a formal complaint regarding the cause of action at issue.
