
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart M - Broadband Radio Service and Educational Broadband Service
###### ยง 27.1213 Designated entity provisions for BRS in Commission auctions commencing prior to January 1, 2004.
####### Bidding credits.

(e)For purposes of Commission auctions commencing prior to January 1, 2004 for BRS licenses, a winning bidder that qualifies as a small business, or as a small business consortia, may use a bidding credit of fifteen (15) percent to lower the cost of its winning bid on any of the BTA authorizations awarded in the Commission BRS auctions commencing prior to January 1, 2004.

(f) Short-form application certification; Long-form application or statement of intention disclosure. A BRS applicant in a Commission auction commencing prior to January 1, 2004 claiming designated entity status shall certify on its short-form application that it is eligible for the incentives claimed. A designated entity that is a winning bidder for a BTA service area(s) shall, in addition to information otherwise required, file an exhibit to either its initial long-form application for a BRS station license, or to its statement of intention with regard to the BTA, which discloses the gross revenues for each of the past three years of the winning bidder and its affiliates. This exhibit shall describe how the winning bidder claiming status as a designated entity satisfies the designated entity eligibility requirements, and must list and summarize all agreements that affect designated entity status, such as partnership agreements, shareholder agreements, management agreements and other agreements, including oral agreements, which establish that the designated entity will have both de facto and de jure control of the entity. See 47 CFR 1.2110(i).
