
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart O - 3.7 GHz Service (3700-3980 MHz)
###### ยง 27.1412 Transition Plan.
####### Certification of accelerated relocation.

(g)Each eligible space station operator must file a timely certification that it has completed the necessary clearing actions to satisfy each accelerated relocation deadline. The certification must be filed once the eligible space station operator completes its obligations but no later than the applicable accelerated relocation deadline. The Wireless Telecommunication Bureau will prescribe the form of such certification.

(1) The Bureau, Clearinghouse, and relevant stakeholders will have the opportunity to review the certification of accelerated relocation and identify potential deficiencies. The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau will prescribe the form of any challenges by relevant stakeholders as to the validity of the certification and will establish the process for how such challenges will impact the incremental decreases in the accelerated relocation payment as set- forth in ยง 27.1422(d).

(2) If credible challenges as to the space station operator's satisfaction of the relevant deadline are made, the Bureau will issue a public notice identifying such challenges and will render a final decision as to the validity of the certification no later than 60 days from its filing. Absent notice from the Bureau of any such deficiencies within 30 days of the filing of the certification, the certification of accelerated relocation will be deemed validated.
