
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Complaints, Applications, Tariffs, and Reports Involving Common Carriers
###### Formal Complaints
####### ยง 1.724 Complaints governed by section 208(b)(1) of the Act.

(a) Any party that intends to file a complaint subject to the 5-month deadline in 47 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) must comply with the pre-complaint procedures below. The Enforcement Bureau's Market Disputes Resolution Division will not process complaints subject to the 5-month deadline unless the filer complies with these procedures.

(b) A party seeking to file a complaint subject to 47 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) shall notify the Chief of the Market Disputes Resolution Division in writing of its intent to file the complaint, and provide a copy of the letter to the defendant. Commission staff will convene a conference with both parties as soon as practicable. During that conference, the staff may discuss, among other things:

(1) Scheduling in the case;

(2) Narrowing factual and legal issues in dispute;

(3) Information exchange and discovery necessary to adjudicate the dispute;

(4) Entry of a protective order governing confidential material; and

(5) Preparation for and scheduling a mandatory settlement negotiation session at the Commission.

(c) Staff will endeavor to complete the pre-complaint process as expeditiously as possible. Staff may direct the parties to exchange relevant information during the pre-complaint period.
