
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart O - 3.7 GHz Service (3700-3980 MHz)
###### ยง 27.1413 Relocation Coordinator.
####### Search committee.

(a)If eligible space station operators elect to receive accelerated relocation payments no later than May 29, 2020, so that a supermajority (80%) of accelerated relocation payments are accepted, each such electing eligible space station operator shall be eligible to appoint one member to a search committee that will seek proposals for a third-party with technical experience in understanding and working on earth stations to serve as a Relocation Coordinator and to manage the migration and filtering of incumbent earth stations of eligible space station operators that decline accelerated relocation payment.

(1) The search committee should proceed by consensus; however, if a vote on selection of a Relocation Coordinator is required, it shall be by a supermajority (80%).

(i) The search committee shall notify the Commission of its choice of Relocation Coordinator.

(ii) The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall issue a Public Notice inviting comment on whether the entity selected satisfies the criteria established in paragraph (b) of this section and issue a final order announcing whether the criteria has been satisfied;

(iii) Should the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau be unable to find the criteria have been satisfied, the selection process will start over and the search committee will submit a new proposed entity.

(2) If eligible space station operators select a Relocation Coordinator, they shall be responsible for paying its costs.

(3) In the event that the search committee fails to select a Relocation Coordinator and to notify the Commission by July 31, 2020, or in the case that at least 80% of accelerated relocation payments are not accepted (and thus accelerated relocation is not triggered):

(i) The search committee will be dissolved without further action by the Commission.

(ii) The Commission will initiate a procurement of a Relocation Coordinator to facilitate the transition. Specifically, the Office of the Managing Director will initiate the procurement, and the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau will take all other necessary actions to meet the accelerated relocation deadlines (to the extent applicable to any given operator) and the relocation deadline.

(iii) In the case that the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau selects the Relocation Coordinator, overlay licensees will, collectively, pay for the services of the Relocation Coordinator and staff. The Relocation Coordinator shall submit its own reasonable costs to the Relocation Clearinghouse, who will then collect payments from overlay licensees. It shall also provide additional financial information as requested by the Bureau to satisfy the Commission's oversight responsibilities and/or agency specific/government-wide reporting obligations.
