
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart O - 3.7 GHz Service (3700-3980 MHz)
###### ยง 27.1413 Relocation Coordinator.
####### Relocation Coordinator duties.

(c)The Relocation Coordinator shall:

(1) Establish a timeline and take actions necessary to migrate and filter incumbent earth stations to ensure uninterrupted service during and following the transition.

(2) Review the Transition Plans filed by all eligible space station operators and recommend any changes to those plans to the Commission to the extent needed to ensure a timely transition.

(3) To the extent that incumbent earth stations are not accounted for in eligible space station operators' Transition Plans, the Relocation Coordinator must include those incumbent earth stations in an Earth Station Transition Plan.

(i) May require each associated space station operator to file the information needed for such a plan with the Relocation Coordinator.

(ii) Will describe and recommend the respective responsibility of each party for earth station migration obligations in the Earth Station Transition Plan and assist incumbent earth stations in transitioning including, for example, by installing filters or hiring a third party to install such filters to the extent necessary.

(4) Coordinate its operations with overlay licensees.

(5) Be responsible for receiving notice from earth station operators or other satellite customers of any disputes related to comparability of facilities, workmanship, or preservation of service during the transition and shall subsequently notify the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau of the dispute and provide recommendations for resolution.

(6) Must make real time disclosures of the content and timing of and the parties to communications, if any, from or to applicants to participate in the competitive bidding, as defined by ยง 1.2105(c)(5)(i) of this chapter whenever the prohibition in ยง 1.2105(c) of this chapter applies to competitive bidding for licenses in the 3.7 GHz Service.

(7) Incumbent space station operators must cooperate in good faith with the Relocation Coordinator throughout the transition.
