
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart O - 3.7 GHz Service (3700-3980 MHz)
###### ยง 27.1414 Relocation Payment Clearinghouse.
####### i.e.,

(2) The search committee shall convene no later than June 22, 2020 and shall notify the Commission of the detailed selection criteria for the position of Relocation Payment Clearinghouse no later than June 1, 2020. Such criteria must be consistent with the qualifications, roles, and duties of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse specified in this subpart. The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (Bureau) is directed, on delegated authority, to issue a Public Notice notifying the public that the search committee has published criteria, outlining submission requirements, and providing the closing dates for the selection of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse and source (web page).

(3) The search committee should proceed by consensus; however, if a vote on selection of a Relocation Payment Clearinghouse is required, it shall be by a majority.

(4) In the event that the search committee fails to select a Relocation Payment Clearinghouse and to notify the Commission by July 31, 2020, the search committee will be dissolved without further action by the Commission. In the event that the search committee fails to select a Clearinghouse and to notify the Commission by July 31, 2020, two of the nine members of the search committee will be dropped therefrom by lot, and the remaining seven members of the search committee shall select a Clearinghouse by majority vote by August 14, 2020.

(5) During the course of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse's tenure, the Commission will take such measures as are necessary to ensure timely compliance, including, should it become necessary, issuing subsequent public notices to select new Relocation Payment Clearinghouses(s).
