
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart O - 3.7 GHz Service (3700-3980 MHz)
###### ยง 27.1421 Disputes over costs and cost-sharing.

(a) Parties disputing a cost estimate, cost invoice, or payment or cost-sharing obligation must file an objection with the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse.

(b) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse may mediate any disputes regarding cost estimates or payments that may arise in the course of band reconfiguration; or refer the disputant parties to alternative dispute resolution fora.

(1) Any dispute submitted to the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse, or other mediator, shall be decided within 30 days after the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse has received a submission by one party and a response from the other party.

(2) Thereafter, any party may seek expedited non-binding arbitration, which must be completed within 30 days of the recommended decision or advice of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse or other mediator.

(3) The parties will share the cost of this arbitration if it is before the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse.

(c) Should any issues still remain unresolved, they may be referred to the Bureau within ten days of recommended decision or advice of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse or other mediator and any decision of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse can be appealed to the Chief of the Bureau.

(1) When referring an unresolved matter, the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse shall forward the entire record on any disputed issues, including such dispositions thereof that the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse has considered.
