
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 27 - MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
##### Subpart Q - 3.45 GHz Service (3450-3550 MHz)
###### ยง 27.1605 Reimbursement clearinghouse.

(a) The clearinghouse ultimately selected shall determine the reimbursement obligations of each Licensee pursuant to ยง 27.1604.

(1) The clearinghouse must be a must be a neutral, independent entity with no conflicts of interest (as defined in ยง 27.1414(b), on the part of the organization or its officers, directors, employees, contractors, or significant subcontractors.

(2) The clearinghouse must be able to demonstrate that it has the requisite expertise to perform the duties required, which will include collecting and distributing reimbursement payments, auditing incoming and outgoing estimates, mitigating cost disputes among parties, and generally acting as a clearinghouse.

(3) The clearinghouse must comply with, on an ongoing basis, all applicable laws and Federal Government guidance on privacy and information security requirements such as relevant provisions in the Federal Information Security Management Act, National Institute of Standards and Technology publications, and Office of Management and Budget guidance.

(4) The clearinghouse must provide quarterly reports to the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau that detail the status of reimbursement funds available, the payments issued, the amounts collected from licensees, and any information filed by incumbents. The reports must account for all funds spent, including the clearinghouse's own expenses. The report shall include descriptions of any disputes and the manner in which they were resolved.

(b) Non-Federal secondary radiolocation licensees in the 3.3-3.55 GHz band that seek reimbursement of their expenses for relocating operations authorized under their licenses and existing as of February 22, 2019, must submit invoices or other appropriate documentation of such expenses to the clearinghouse no later than a date to be specified by public notice.

(c) Expenses must be reasonably related to the relocation from the 3.3-3.55 GHz band to the 2.9-3.0 GHz band, may be future expenses or expenses already incurred-including the clearinghouse's costs, and no expenses for other purposes will be subject to reimbursement. Ineligible expenses include, but are not limited to, those related to upgrades or improvements. The clearinghouse shall have the authority to determine whether particular expenses are eligible for reimbursement.

(d) The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau is responsible for resolving any disputes arising from decisions by the clearinghouse and shall specify by public notice when the clearinghouse's responsibilities have terminated.
