
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart B - Delegations of Authority
###### Office of Economics and Analytics
####### § 0.271 Authority delegated.

The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, is delegated authority to perform all functions and activities described in § 0.21 (and to perform the specified functions set forth in in paragraphs (f) through (i) of this section to the extent they fall within the subject matters over which the Office of Economics and Analytics has primary authority under § 0.21), subject to the exceptions and limitations in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section:

(a) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, shall not have authority to act on notices of proposed rulemaking and of inquiry, final orders in rulemaking proceedings and inquiry proceedings, and reports arising from any of the foregoing except such order involving ministerial conforming amendments to rule parts and notices and orders addressing the detailed procedures for implementation of auctions of spectrum and broadcast services and uses of competitive bidding to achieve other Commission policy objectives, including universal service support.

(b) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, shall not have authority to act on any complaints, petitions, pleadings, requests, or other matters presenting new or novel questions of fact, law, or policy that cannot be resolved under existing precedents and guidelines.

(c) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, shall not have authority to act on any applications for review of actions taken by the Chief of the Office of Economics and Analytics pursuant to delegated authority, except that the Chief may dismiss any such application that does not contain any statement required under § 1.115(a) or (b) of this chapter, or does not comply with the filing requirements of § 1.115(d) or (f) of this chapter.

(d) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, shall not have authority to act on any applications that are in hearing status.

(e) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, shall not have authority to impose, reduce or cancel forfeitures pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in amounts of more than $80,000. Payments for bid withdrawal, default or to prevent unjust enrichment that are imposed pursuant to Section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and regulations in this chapter implementing Section 309(j) governing auction authority, are excluded from this restriction.

(f) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, is delegated authority to deny requests for extension of time or to extend the time within which comments may be filed.

(g) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, is authorized to dismiss or deny petitions for rulemaking that are repetitive or moot or that for other reasons plainly do not warrant consideration by the Commission.

(h) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, is authorized to dismiss or deny petitions for reconsideration to the extent permitted by § 1.429(l) of this chapter and to the extent permitted by § 1.106 of this chapter.

(i) The Chief, Office of Economics and Analytics, is delegated authority to make nonsubstantive, editorial revisions to the Commission's rules and regulations contained in part 1, subparts Q, V, W, and AA, of this chapter.
