
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Complaints, Applications, Tariffs, and Reports Involving Common Carriers
###### Formal Complaints
####### ยง 1.736 Accelerated Docket Proceedings.

(a) With the exception of complaint proceedings under 47 U.S.C. 255, 617, and 619, and part 14 of this chapter, parties to a formal complaint proceeding against a common carrier, or a pole attachment complaint proceeding against a cable television system operator, a utility, or a telecommunications carrier, may request inclusion on the Accelerated Docket. Proceedings on the Accelerated Docket must be concluded within 60 days, and are therefore subject to shorter pleading deadlines and other modifications to the procedural rules that govern formal complaint proceedings.

(b) A complainant that seeks inclusion of a proceeding on the Accelerated Docket shall submit a request to the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau's Market Disputes Resolution Division, by phone and in writing, prior to filing the complaint.

(c) Within five days of receiving service of any formal complaint against a common carrier, or a pole attachment complaint against a cable television system operator, a utility, or a telecommunications carrier, a defendant may submit a request seeking inclusion of the proceeding on the Accelerated Docket to the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau's Market Disputes Resolution Division. The defendant shall submit such request by phone and in writing, and contemporaneously transmit a copy of the written request to all parties to the proceeding.

(d) Commission staff has discretion to decide whether a complaint, or portion of a complaint, is suitable for inclusion on the Accelerated Docket.

(e) In appropriate cases, Commission staff may require that the parties participate in pre-filing settlement negotiations or mediation under ยง 1.737.

(f) If the parties do not resolve their dispute and the matter is accepted for handling on the Accelerated Docket, staff will establish the schedule and process for the proceeding.

(g) If it appears at any time that a proceeding on the Accelerated Docket is no longer appropriate for such treatment, Commission staff may remove the matter from the Accelerated Docket either on its own motion or at the request of any party.

(h) In Accelerated Docket proceedings, the Commission may conduct a minitrial, or a trial-type hearing, as an alternative to deciding a case on a written record. Minitrials shall take place no later than between 40 and 45 days after the filing of the complaint. A Commission Administrative Law Judge ("ALJ") or staff may preside at the minitrial.

(i) Applications for review of staff decisions issued on delegated authority in Accelerated Docket proceedings shall comply with the filing and service requirements in ยง 1.115(e)(4). In Accelerated Docket proceedings which raise issues that may not be decided on delegated authority (see 47 U.S.C. 155(c)(1); 47 CFR 0.331(c)), the staff decision will be a recommended decision subject to adoption or modification by the Commission. Any party to the proceeding that seeks modification of the recommended decision shall do so by filing comments challenging the decision within 15 days of its release. Opposition comments, shall be filed within 15 days of the comments challenging the decision; reply comments shall may be filed 10 days thereafter and shall be limited to issues raised in the opposition comments.

(j) If no party files comments challenging the recommended decision, the Commission will issue its decision adopting or modifying the recommended decision within 45 days of its release. If parties to the proceeding file comments to the recommended decision, the Commission will issue its decision adopting or modifying the recommended decision within 30 days of the filing of the final comments.
