
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart A - Preface
###### ยง 32.2 Basis of the accounts.
####### a priori

(c) In the course of developing the bases for this account structure, several other alternatives were explored. It was, for example, determined that, because of the variety and continual changing of various cost allocation mechanisms, the financial accounts of a company should not reflect anallocation of revenues, investments or expenses to products or services, jurisdictions or organizational structures. (Note also ยง 32.14 (c) and (d) of subpart B.) It was also determined that costs (in the case of assets) should not be recorded based solely upon physical attributes such as location, description or size.

(d) Care has been taken in this account structure to avoid confusing a function with an organizational responsibility, particularly as it relates to the expense accounts. Whereas in the past, specific organizations may have performed specific functions, the future environment with its increasing mechanization and other changes will result in entirely new or restructured organizations. Thus, any relationships drawn between organizations and accounts would become increasingly meaningless with the passage of time.

(e) These accounts, then, are intended to reflect a functional and technological view of the telecommunications industry. This view will provide a stable and consistent foundation for the recording of financial data.

(f) The financial data contained in the accounts, together with the detailed information contained in the underlying financial and other subsidiary records required by this Commission, will provide the information necessary to support separations, cost of service and management reporting requirements. The basic account structure has been designed to remain stable as reporting requirements change.
