
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart B - General Instructions
###### ยง 32.27 Transactions with affiliates.
####### Threshold.

(3)For purposes of this section carriers are required to make a good faith determination of fair market value for an asset when the total aggregate annual value of the asset(s) reaches or exceeds $500,000, per affiliate. When a carrier reaches or exceeds the $500,000 threshold for a particular asset for the first time, the carrier must perform the market valuation and value the transaction on a going-forward basis in accordance with the affiliate transactions rules on a going-forward basis. When the total aggregate annual value of the asset(s) does not reach or exceed $500,000, the asset(s) shall be recorded at net book cost.

(c) Services provided between a carrier and its affiliate pursuant to a tariff, including a tariff filed with a state commission, shall be recorded in the appropriate revenue accounts at the tariffed rate. Non-tariffed services provided between a carrier and its affiliate pursuant to publicly-filed agreements submitted to a state commission pursuant to section 252(e) of the Communications Act of 1934 or statements of generally available terms pursuant to section 252(f) shall be recorded using the charges appearing in such publicly-filed agreements or statements. Non-tariffed services provided between a carrier and its affiliate that qualify for prevailing price valuation, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be recorded at the prevailing price. For all other services sold by or transferred from a carrier to its affiliate, the services shall be recorded at no less than the higher of fair market value and fully distributed cost. For all other services sold by or transferred to a carrier from its affiliate, the services shall be recorded at no more than the lower of fair market value and fully distributed cost.
