
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart B - General Instructions
###### ยง 32.27 Transactions with affiliates.
####### Threshold.

(3)For purposes of this section, carriers are required to make a good faith determination of fair market value for a service when the total aggregate annual value of that service reaches or exceeds $500,000, per affiliate. When a carrier reaches or exceeds the $500,000 threshold for a particular service for the first time, the carrier must perform the market valuation and value the transaction in accordance with the affiliate transactions rules on a going-forward basis. All services received by a carrier from its affiliate(s) that exist solely to provide services to members of the carrier's corporate family shall be recorded at fully distributed cost.

(d) In order to qualify for prevailing price valuation in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, sales of a particular asset or service to third parties must encompass greater than 25 percent of the total quantity of such product or service sold by an entity. Carriers shall apply this 25 percent threshold on an asset-by-asset and service-by-service basis, rather than on a product-line or service-line basis. In the case of transactions for assets and services subject to section 272, a BOC may record such transactions at prevailing price regardless of whether the 25 percent threshold has been satisfied.

(e) Income taxes shall be allocated among the regulated activities of the carrier, its nonregulated divisions, and members of an affiliated group. Under circumstances in which income taxes are determined on a consolidated basis by the carrier and other members of the affiliated group, the income tax expense to be recorded by the carrier shall be the same as would result if determined for the carrier separately for all time periods, except that the tax effect of carry-back and carry-forward operating losses, investment tax credits, or other tax credits generated by operations of the carrier shall be recorded by the carrier during the period in which applied in settlement of the taxes otherwise attributable to any member, or combination of members, of the affiliated group.

(f) Companies that employ average schedules in lieu of actual costs are exempt from the provisions of this section. For other organizations, the principles set forth in this section shall apply equally to corporations, proprietorships, partnerships and other forms of business organizations.
