
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart C - Instructions for Balance Sheet Accounts
###### ยง 32.2000 Instructions for telecommunications plant accounts.
####### Purpose of telecommunications plant accounts.

(a)(1) The telecommunications plant accounts (2001 to 2007 inclusive) are designed to show the investment in the company's tangible and intangible telecommunications plant which ordinarily has a service life of more than one year, including such plant whether used by the company or others in providing telecommunications service.

(2) The telecommunications plant accounts shall not include the cost or other value of telecommunications plant contributed to the company. Contributions in the form of money or its equivalent toward the construction of telecommunications plant shall be credited to the accounts charged with the cost of such construction. Amounts of non-recurring reimbursements based on the cost of plant or equipment furnished in rendering service to a customer shall be credited to the accounts charged with the cost of the plant or equipment. Amounts received for construction which are ultimately to be repaid wholly or in part, shall be credited to Account 4300, Other long-term liabilities and deferred credits; when final determination has been made as to the amount to be returned, any unrefunded amounts shall be credited to the accounts charged with the cost of such construction. Amounts received for the construction of plant, the ownership of which rests with or will revert to others, shall be credited to the accounts charged with the cost of such construction. (Note also Account 7100, Other operating income and expense.)

(3) When telecommunications plant ordinarily having a service life of more than one year is installed for temporary use in providing telecommunications service, it shall be accounted for in the same manner as plant having a service life of more than one year. This includes temporary installations of plant (such as poles, wire and cable) installed to maintain service during the progress of highway reconstruction or during interruptions due to storms or other casualties, equipment used for the training of operators, equipment used to provide intercepting positions in central offices to handle traffic for a short period following extensive system changes and similar installations of property used to provide telecommunications service.

(4) [Reserved]
