
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart C - Instructions for Balance Sheet Accounts
###### ยง 32.2000 Instructions for telecommunications plant accounts.
####### Telecommunications plant acquired.

(b)(1) Property, plant and equipment acquired from an entity, whether or not affiliated with the accounting company, shall be accounted for at original cost, except that property, plant and equipment acquired from a nonaffiliated entity through an acquisition or merger may be accounted for at market value at the time of the acquisition or merger.

(2) The accounting for property, plant and equipment to be recorded at original cost shall be as follows:

(i) The amount of money paid (or current money value of any consideration other than money exchanged) for the property (together with preliminary expenses incurred in connection the acquisition) shall be charged to Account 1438, Deferred maintenance, retirements, and other deferred charges.

(ii) The original cost, estimated if not known, of telecommunications plant, governmental franchises and other similar rights acquired shall be charged to the applicable telecommunications plant accounts, Telecommunications Plant Under Construction, and Property Held For Future Telecommunications Use, as appropriate, and credited to Account 1439. When the actual original cost cannot be determined and estimates are used, the company shall be prepared to furnish the Commission with the particulars of such estimates.

(iii) Accumulated Depreciation and amortization balances related to plant acquired shall be credited to Account 3100, Accumulated depreciation, or Account 3200, Accumulated depreciation-held for future telecommunications use, or Account 3400, Accumulated amortization-tangible and debited to Account 1438. Accumulated amortization balances related to plant acquired which ultimately is recorded in Accounts 2005, Telecommunications plant adjustment, Account 2682, Leasehold improvements, or Account 2690, Intangibles shall be credited to these asset accounts, and debited to Account 1438.

(iv) Any amount remaining in Account 1438, applicable to the plant acquired, shall, upon completion of the entries provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section, be debited or credited, as applicable, to Account 2007, Goodwill, or to Account 2005, Telecommunications plant adjustment, as appropriate.

(3) A memorandum record shall be kept showing the amount of contributions in aid of construction applicable to the property acquired as shown by the accounts of the previous owner.
