
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart C - Instructions for Balance Sheet Accounts
###### ยง 32.2000 Instructions for telecommunications plant accounts.
####### Basic property records.

(e)(1) The basic property records are that portion of the total property accounting system which preserves the following detailed information:

(i) The identity, vintage, location and original cost of units of property;

(ii) Original and ongoing transactional data (plant account activity) in terms of such units; and

(iii) Any other specific financial and cost accounting information not properly warranting separate disclosure as an account or subaccount but which is needed to support regulatory, cost, tax, management and other specific accounting information needs and requirements.

(2) The basic property records must be: (i) Subject to internal accounting controls, (ii) auditable, (iii) equal in the aggregate to the total investment reflected in the financial property control accounts as well as the total of the cost allocations supporting the determination of cost-of-service at any particular point in time, and (iv) maintained throughout the life of the property.

(3) The basic property records shall consist of (i) continuing property records and (ii) records supplemental thereto which together reveal clearly, by accounting area, the detailed and systematically summarized information necessary to meet fully the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(4) Companies shall establish and maintain basic property records for each class of property recorded in the several plant accounts which comprise the balance sheet Account 2001, Telecommunications Plant In Service, Account 2002, Property Held for Future Telecommunications Use, and Account 2006, Nonoperating Plant.

(5) The company shall notify the Commission of a plan for the basic property record as follows:

(i) Not later than June 30 of the year following that in which it becomes subject to this system of accounts, the company shall file with the Commission two (2) copies of a complete plan of the method to be used in the compilation of a basic property record with respect to each class of property. The plan shall include a list of proposed accounting areas accompanied by description of the boundaries of each area as defined in accordance with the requirements of ยง 32.2000(f)(1) (i) and (ii) of this subpart. The plan shall also include a list of property record units proposed for use under each regulated plant account. These property record units shall be selected such that the requirements of ยง 32.2000(f)(2) (i), (ii) and (iii) of this subpart can be satisfied.

(ii) The company shall submit to the Commission one copy of any major proposed changes in its basic property record plan at least 30 days before the effective date of the proposed changes.

(6) The company shall prepare and maintain the basic property record as follows:

(i) Not later than June 30 of the year following that in which the company becomes subject to this system of accounts, begin the preparation of a basic property record.

(ii) Complete within two years of the prescribed beginning date, basic property records for all property as of the end of the preceding calendar year.

(iii) Promptly process in the basic property records all property changes affecting periods subsequent to initial establishment of the basic property record.

(7) The basic property record components (see paragraph (c) of this section) shall be arranged in conformity with the regulated plant accounts prescribed in this section of accounts as follows:

(i) The continuing property records shall be compiled on the basis of original cost (or other book cost consistent with this system of accounts). The continuing property records shall be maintained as prescribed in ยง 32.2000(f)(2)(iii) of this subpart in such manner as will meet the following basic objectives:

(A) Provide for the verification of property record units by physical examination.

(B) Provide for accurate accounting for retirements.

(C) Provide data for use in connection with depreciation studies.

(ii) The records supplemental to the continuing property records shall disclose such service designations, usage measurement criteria, apportionment factors, or other data as may be prescribed by the Commission in this part or other parts of its Rules and Regulations. Such data are subject to the same general controls and standards for auditability and support as are all other elements of the basic property records.

(8) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part concerning continuing property records, carriers subject to price cap regulations set forth in part 61 of this chapter shall maintain property records necessary to track substantial assets and investments in an accurate, auditable manner that enables them to verify their accounting books, make such property information available to the Commission upon request, and ensure the maintenance of such data.
