
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart C - Instructions for Balance Sheet Accounts
###### ยง 32.2000 Instructions for telecommunications plant accounts.
####### Depreciation charges.

(2)(i) A separate annual percentage rate for each depreciation category of telecommunications plant shall be used in computing depreciation charges.

(ii) Companies, upon receiving prior approval from this Commission, or, upon prescription by this Commission, shall apply such depreciation rate, except where provisions of paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section apply, as will ratably distribute on a straight line basis the difference between the net book cost of a class or subclass of plant and its estimated net salvage during the known or estimated remaining service life of the plant.

(iii) Charges for currently accruing depreciation shall be made monthly to the appropriate depreciation accounts, and corresponding credits shall be made to the appropriate depreciation reserve accounts. Current monthly charges shall normally be computed by the application of one-twelfth of the annual depreciation rate to the monthly average balance of the associated category of plant. The average monthly balance shall be computed using the balance as of the first and last days of the current month.

(iv) In certain circumstances and upon prior approval of this Commission, monthly charges may be determined in total or in part through the use of other methods whereby selected plant balances or portions thereof are ratably distributed over periods prescribed by this Commission. Such circumstances could include but not be limited to factors such as the existence of reserve deficiencies or surpluses, types of plant that will be completely retired in the near future, and changes in the accounting for plant. Where alternative methods have been used in accordance with this subparagraph, such amounts shall be applied separately or in combination with rates determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section.
