
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart C - Instructions for Balance Sheet Accounts
###### ยง 32.2000 Instructions for telecommunications plant accounts.
####### Acquired depreciable plant.

(3)When acquired depreciable plant carried in Account 1438, Deferred maintenance, retirements and other deferred charges, is distributed to the appropriate plant accounts, adjusting entries shall be made covering the depreciation charges applicable to such plant for the period during which it was carried in Account 1438.

(4) Plant Retired for Nonrecurring Factors not Recognized in Depreciation Rates.

(i) A retirement will be considered as nonrecurring (extraordinary) only if the following criteria are met:

(A) The impending retirement was not adequately considered in setting past depreciation rates.

(B) The charging of the retirement against the reserve will unduly deplete that reserve.

(C) The retirement is unusual such that similar retirements are not likely to recur in the future.

(5) Upon direction or approval from this Commission, the company shall credit Account 3100, Accumulated Depreciation, and charge Account 1438, Deferred Maintenance, retirements and other deferred charges, with the unprovided-for loss in service value. Such amounts shall be distributed from Account 1438 to Account 6561, Depreciation expense-Telecommunications plant in service, or Account 6562, Depreciation expense-property held for future telecommunications use, over such period as this Commission may direct or approve.
