
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart C - Instructions for Balance Sheet Accounts
###### ยง 32.2000 Instructions for telecommunications plant accounts.
####### Amortization accounting.

(h)(1) Unless otherwise provided by this Commission, either through approval, or upon prescription by this Commission, amortization shall be computed on the straight-line method, i.e., equal annual amounts shall be applied. The cost of each type asset shall be amortized on the basis the estimated life of that asset and shall not be written off in the accounting period in which the asset is acquired. A reasonable estimate of the useful life may be based on the upper or lower limits even though a fixed existence is not determinable. However, the period of amortization shall not exceed forty years.

(2) In the event any estimated useful life becomes no longer applicable, a revised estimated useful life shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(3) Amortization charges shall be made monthly to the appropriate amortization expense accounts and corresponding credits shall be made to accounts 2005, 2682, 2690, and 3410, as appropriate. Monthly charges shall be computed by the application of one-twelfth to the annual amortization amount.

(4) The company shall keep such records as will allow the determination of the useful life of the asset.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Plant accounts to be maintained by telephone companies as indicated:
