
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart D - Instructions For Revenue Accounts
###### ยง 32.4999 General.
####### Contractual arrangements.

(e)Charges and credits resulting from activities associated with the provisions of regulated telecommunications services shall be recorded in a manner consistent with the nature of the underlying contractual arrangements. The charges and credits resulting from expense sharing or apportionment arrangements associated with the provision of regulated telecommunications services shall be recorded in the detailed regulated accounts. Charges and credits resulting from revenue settlement agreements or other revenue pooling arrangements associated with the provision of regulated telecommunications services shall be included in the appropriate revenue accounts. Those charges and credits resulting from contractual revenue pooling and/or sharing agreements shall be recorded in each prescribed revenue account and prescribed subsidiary record categories thereof to the extent that each is separately identifiable in the settlement process. It is not intended that settlement amounts be allocated or generally spread to the individual revenue accounts where they are not separately identifiable in the settlement process. When the settlement amounts are not identifiable by a revenue account they shall be recorded in Account 5060, Other basic area revenue, 5105, Long distance message revenue, or 5200, Miscellaneous revenue, as appropriate.
