
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Subpart B - Telecommunications Property
####### Central Office Equipment
######## ยง 36.123 Operator systems equipment - Category 1.
######### Separate local manual boards.

(i)This includes the local positions of manual boards where inward toll positions are in the same line.

(ii) Separate DSA boards.

(iii) Separate DSB boards.

(3) Tributary boards may be treated individually if warranted or they may be treated on a group basis.

(c) Auxiliary service boards generally handle rate and route, information, and intercept service at individual or joint positions. The cost of these boards is apportioned as follows:

(1) The cost of separate directory assistance boards is apportioned among the operations on the basis of the relative number of weighted standard work seconds handled at the boards under consideration. Directory assistance weighted standard work seconds are apportioned among the operations on the basis of the classification of these weighted standard work seconds as follows:

(i) Directory assistance weighted standard work seconds first are classified between calls received over toll directory assistance trunks from operators or customers and all other directory assistance calls.

(ii) The directory assistance weighted standard work seconds of each type further are classified separately among the operations on the basis of an analysis of a representative sample of directory assistance calls of each type with reference to the locations of the calling and called stations for each call.

(2) The cost of separate intercept boards and automated intercept systems in the study area is apportioned among the operations on the basis of the relative number of subscriber line minutes of use.

(3) The cost of separate rate and route boards is generally included with the cost of the toll boards served and is apportioned with those boards.

(4) Where more than one auxiliary service is handled at an auxiliary board, the cost of the board is apportioned among the auxiliary services on the basis of the relative number of weighted standard work seconds for each service. The cost of that part of the board allocated to each auxiliary service is apportioned among the operations in the same manner as for a separate auxiliary board.

(d) The cost of joint exchange and toll service observing boards is first apportioned between exchange and toll use on the basis of the relative number of exchange and toll service observing units at these boards. The cost of separate toll service observing boards and the toll portion of joint service observing boards is apportioned between state and interstate operations on the basis of the relative number of toll minutes of use associated with the toll messages originating in the offices observed.

(e) Traffic Service Position System (TSPS) investments are apportioned as follows:

(1) Operator position investments are apportioned on the basis of the relative weighted standard work seconds for the entire TSPS complex.

(2) Remote trunk arrangement (RTA) investments are apportioned on the basis of the relative processor real time (i.e., actual seconds) required to process TSPS traffic originating from the end offices served by each RTA.

(3) The remaining investments at the central control location, such as the stored program control and memory, is apportioned on the basis of the relative processor real time (i.e., actual seconds) for the entire TSPS complex.
