
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Subpart B - Telecommunications Property
####### Central Office Equipment
######## ยง 36.126 Circuit equipment - Category 4.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the term "Circuit Equipment" encompasses the Radio Systems and Circuit Equipment contained in Account 2230. It includes central office equipment, other than switching equipment and automatic message recording equipment, which is used to derive communications transmission channels or which is used for the amplification, modulation, regeneration, testing, balancing or control of signals transmitted over communications transmission channels. Examples of circuit equipment in general use include:

(1) Carrier telephone system terminals.

(2) Telephone repeaters, termination sets, impedance compensators, pulse link repeaters, echo suppressors and other intermediate transmission amplification and balancing equipment except that included in switchboards.

(3) Radio transmitters, receivers, repeaters and other radio central office equipment except message switching equipment associated with radio systems.

(4) Composite ringers, line signaling and switching pad circuits.

(5) Concentration equipment.

(6) Composite sets and repeating coils.

(7) Program transmission amplifiers, monitoring devices and volume indicators.

(8) Testboards, test desks, repair desks and patch bays, including those provided for test and control, and for transmission testing.

(b) For apportionment among the operations, the cost of circuit equipment is assigned to the following subsidiary categories:
