
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Subpart B - Telecommunications Property
####### Central Office Equipment
######## § 36.126 Circuit equipment - Category 4.
######### i.e.,,i.e.,

(4) In addition, for the purpose of identifying and separating property associated with special services, circuit equipment included in Categories 4.12 (other than wideband equipment) 4.13 and 4.23 is identified as either basic circuit equipment,equipment that performs functions necessary to provide and operate channels suitable for voice transmission (telephone grade channels), or special circuit equipment,equipment that is peculiar to special service circuits. Carrier telephone terminals and carrier telephone repeaters are examples of basic circuit equipment in general use, while audio program transmission amplifiers, bridges, monitoring devices and volume indicators are examples of special circuit equipment in general use. Cost of exchange circuit equipment included in Categories 4.12 and 4.13 and the interexchange circuit equipment in Categories 4.21, 4.22 and 4.23 are segregated between basic circuit equipment and special circuit equipment only at those locations where amounts of interexchange and exchange special circuit equipment are significant. Where such segregation is not made, the total costs in these categories are classified as basic circuit equipment.

(5) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, study areas subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to § 61.41, shall assign the average balance of Account 2230 to the categories/subcategories as specified in § 36.126(b)(1) through (b)(4) based on the relative percentage assignment of the average balance of Account 2230 (or, if Accounts 2231 and 2232 were required to be maintained at the applicable time, the average balances of Accounts 2231 and 2232) costs to these categories/subcategories during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000.

(6) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, study areas subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to § 61.41 of this chapter, shall assign the average balance of Account 2230 to the categories/subcategories as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section based on the relative percentage assignment of the average balance of Account 2230 (or, if Accounts 2231 and 2232 were required to be maintained at the applicable time, the average balances of Accounts 2231 and 2232) costs to these categories/subcategories during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000.

(c) Apportionment of Exchange Circuit Equipment Among the Operations:

(1) Wideband Exchange Line Circuit Equipment-Category 4.11-The cost of exchange circuit equipment in this category is determined separately for each wideband facility. The respective costs are allocated to the appropriate operation in the same manner as the related exchange line cable and wire facilities described in § 36.155.

(2) Exchange Trunk Circuit Equipment (Wideband and Non-Wideband)-Category 4.12-The cost of exchange circuit equipment associated with this category for the study area is allocated to the appropriate operation in the same manner as the related exchange trunk cable and wire facilities as described in § 36.155.

(3) Exchange Line Circuit Equipment Excluding Wideband-Category 4.13-The cost of Circuit Equipment associated with exchange line plant excluding wideband for the study area is assigned to subcategories and is allocated to the appropriate operation in the same manner as the related exchange line cable and wire facilities for non-wideband service as described in § 36.154.

(4) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, all study areas shall apportion costs in the categories/subcategories, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, among the jurisdictions using the relative use measurements or factors, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000. Direct assignment of any subcategory of Category 4.1 Exchange Circuit Equipment to the jurisdictions shall be updated annually.

(d) Apportionment of Interexchange Circuit Equipment among the Operations: Procedures to be Used by Interexchange Carriers. (1) Interexchange Circuit Equipment Furnished to Another Company for Interstate Use-Category 4.21-This category comprises that circuit equipment provided for the use of another company as an integral part of its interexchange circuit facilities used wholly for interstate services. This category includes such circuit equipment as telephone carrier terminals and microwave systems used wholly for interstate services. The total cost of the circuit equipment in this category for the study area is assigned to the interstate operation.

(2) Interexchange Circuit Equipment Used for Wideband Service-Category 4.22-This category includes the circuit equipment portion of interexchange channels used for wideband services. The cost of interexchange circuit equipment in this category is determined separately for each wideband channel and is segregated between message and private line services on the basis of the use of the channels provided. The respective costs are allocated to the appropriate operation in the same manner as the related interexchange cable and wire facilities as described in § 36.156.

(3) All Other Interexchange Circuit Equipment-Category 4.23-This category includes the cost of all interexchange circuit equipment not assigned to Categories 4.21 and 4.22. Interexchange carriers shall freeze the allocation factors for Category 4.23 investment at levels reached on December 31, 1985, derived by using the procedures in effect at that time. On January 1, 1988, and thereafter, that frozen allocation factor shall be applied to each interexchange carrier's Category 4.23 investment to derive the interstate allocation. On January 1, 1988, and thereafter, the amount of investment allocated to the interstate jurisdiction will vary but the relative proportion of the total investment that is allocated to the interstate jurisdiction will remain frozen at 1985 levels.

(e) Apportionment of Interexchange Circuit Equipment among the Operations: Procedures To Be Used by Exchange Carriers. (1) Interexchange Circuit Equipment Furnished to Another Company for Interstate Use Category-4.21-This category comprises that circuit equipment provided for the use of another company as an integral part of its interexchange circuit facilities used wholly for interstate services. This category includes such circuit equipment as telephone carrier terminals and microwave systems used wholly for interstate services. The total cost of the circuit equipment in this category for the study area is assigned to the interstate operation.

(2) Interexchange Circuit Equipment Used for Wideband Service-Category 4.22-This category includes the circuit equipment portion of interexchange channels used for wideband services. The cost of interexchange circuit equipment in this category is determined separately for each wideband channel and is segregated between message and private line services on the basis of the use of the channels provided. The respective costs are allocated to the appropriate operation in the same manner as the related interexchange cable and wire facilities described in § 36.156.
