
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Subpart B - Telecommunications Property
####### Central Office Equipment
######## ยง 36.126 Circuit equipment - Category 4.
######### i.e.

(3) All Other Interexchange Circuit Equipment-Category 4.23-This category includes the cost of all interexchange circuit equipment not assigned to Categories 4.21 and 4.22. The cost of interexchange basic circuit equipment used for the following classes of circuits is included in this category: Jointly used message circuits,, message switching plant circuits carrying messages from the state and interstate operations; circuits used for state private line service; and circuits used for state private line services.

(i) An average interexchange circuit equipment cost per equivalent interexchange telephone termination for all circuits is determined and applied to the equivalent interexchange telephone termination counts of each of the following classes of circuits: Private Line, State Private Line, Message. The cost of interstate private line circuits is assigned directly to the interstate operation. The cost of state private line circuits is assigned directly to the state operation. The cost of message circuits is apportioned between the state and interstate operations on the basis of the relative number of study area conversation-minutes applicable to such facilities.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) The cost of special circuit equipment is segregated among private line services based on an analysis of the use of the equipment and in accordance with ยง 36.126(b)(4). The special circuit equipment cost assigned to private line services is directly assigned to the appropriate operations.

(4) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, all study areas shall apportion costs in the categories/subcategories specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section among the jurisdictions using relative use measurements or factors, as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000. Direct assignment of any subcategory of Category 4.2 Interexchange Circuit Equipment to the jurisdictions shall be updated annually.

(f) Apportionment of Host/Remote Message Circuit Equipment Among the Operations.

(1) Host/Remote Message Circuit Equipment-Category 4.3. This category includes message host/remote location circuit equipment for which a message circuit switching function is performed at the host central office associated with cable and wire facilities as described in ยง 36.152(c).

(i) The category 4.3 cost of host/remote circuit equipment assigned to message services for the study area is apportioned among the exchange, intrastate toll, and interstate toll operations on the basis of the assignment of host/remote message cable and wire facilities as described in ยง 36.157.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, all study areas shall apportion costs in the subcategory specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section among the jurisdictions using the allocation factor, as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, for this subcategory for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000. Direct assignment of any Category 4.3 Host/Remote Message Circuit Equipment to the jurisdictions shall be updated annually.
