
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Subpart D - Operating Expenses and Taxes
####### Customer Operations Expenses
######## ยง 36.375 Published directory listing.

(a) This classification includes expenses for preparing or purchasing, compiling and disseminating directory listings.

(b) Published directory expense is assigned as follows:

(1) Classified directory expense and all expense of soliciting advertising is assigned to the exchange operation.

(2) The expense of alphabetical and street address directories and traffic information records is apportioned among the operations on the basis of the relative number of study area subscriber line minutes-of-use applicable to each operation.

(3) The expense associated with directories and traffic information records prepared for one locality and used in another locality is known as "foreign directories expense." Such expense is assigned to the appropriate operation on the basis of the location of the point where used with respect to the locality for which the directories and records were prepared.

(4) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, study areas subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to ยง 61.41 of this chapter, shall assign the balance of Account 6620-Services to the classifications, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, based on the relative percentage assignment of the balance of Account 6620 to these classifications during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000.

(5) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, all study areas shall apportion Published directory listing expenses using the underlying relative use measurements, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000. Direct assignment of any Publishing directory listing expense to the jurisdictions shall be updated annually.
