
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Subpart D - Operating Expenses and Taxes
####### Customer Operations Expenses
######## ยง 36.379 Message processing expense.

(a) This classification includes the salary and machine expense of data processing equipment, including supervision, general accounting administrative and miscellaneous expense associated with the processing of individual toll tickets and local message tickets.

(b) The expense assigned to this classification is divided into the subcategories Toll Ticket Processing Expense and Local Message Processing Expense on the basis of the relative number of messages. Toll Ticket Processing Expense is allocated between the State and interstate jurisdiction on the basis of the relative number of toll messages. Local Message Processing Expense is assigned to the exchange operation.

(1) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, study areas subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to ยง 61.41 of this chapter, shall assign the balance of Account 6620-Services to the subcategories, as specified in this paragraph (b), based on the relative percentage assignment of the balance of Account 6620 to those subcategories during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000.

(2) Effective July 1, 2001, through December 31, 2024, all study areas shall apportion Toll Ticketing Processing Expense among the jurisdictions using the relative number of toll messages for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2000. Local Message Process Expense is assigned to the state jurisdiction.
