
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 32 - UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
##### Subpart G - Glossary
###### Appendix to Part 36 - Glossary
####### Second Computer Inquiry

Items of telecommunications terminal equipment in Accounts 2310 referred to as CPE in ยง 64.702 of the Federal Communication Commission's Rules adopted in thesuch as telephone instruments, data sets, dialers and other supplemental equipment, and PBX's which are provided by common carriers and located on customer premises and inventory included in these accounts to be used for such purposes. Excluded from this classification are similar items of equipment located on telephone company premises and used by the company in the normal course of business as well as over voltage protection equipment, customer premises wiring, coin operated public or pay telephones, multiplexing equipment to deliver multiple channels to the customer, mobile radio equipment and transmit earth stations.

The segment of wiring from the customer's side of the protector to the customer premises equipment.

A local dial office switchboard at which are handled assistance calls, intercepted calls and calls from miscellaneous lines and trunks. It may also be employed for handling certain toll calls.

A switchboard of a dial system for completing incoming calls received from manual offices.

Office equipment such as that using punched cards, punched tape, magnetic or other comparable storage media as an operating vehicle for recording and processing information. Includes machines for transcribing raw data into punched cards, etc., but does not include such items as key-operated, manually or electrically driven adding, calculating, bookkeeping or billing machines, typewriters or similar equipment.

Switching equipment actuated by electrical impulses generated by a dial or key pulsing arrangement.

Include only initial incremental presubscription costs and initial incremental expenditures for hardware and software related directly to the provision of equal access which would not be required to upgrade the switching capabilities of the office involved absent the provisions of equal access.

A standard cross section of cable conductors for use in equating the metallic content of cable conductors of all gauge to a common base.

The basic units employed in the allocation of pole lines costs for determining the relative use made of poles by aerial cables and by aerial wire conductors of various sizes. This unit reflects the relative loads of such cable and wire carried on poles.

The product of sheath Kilometers and the number of equivalent gauge pairs of conductors in a cable.

The product of (a) the length of a section of cable in kilometers (sheath kilometers) and (b) the ratio of the metallic content applicable to a particular group of conductors in the cable (e.g., conductors assigned to a category) to the metallic content of all conductors in the cable.

This is a combination of (a) exchange cable and wire facilities (b) exchange central office circuit equipment, including associated land and buildings and (c) information origination/termination equipment which forms a complete channel.

The time in which an item of telephone plant is in actual use either by a customer or an operator. For example, on a completed telephone call, holding time includes conversation time as well as other time in use. At local dial offices any measured minutes which result from other than customer attempts to place calls (as evidenced by the dialing of at least one digit) are not treated as holding time.

An electronic analog or digital base switching unit containing the central call processing functions which service the host office and its remote locations.

Equipment used to input into or receive output from the telecommunications network.

A circuit which is included in the interexchange transmission equipment.

The combination of (a) interexchange cable and wire facilities, (b) interexchange circuit equipment and, (c) associated land and buildings.

A circuit between two local central office units, either manual or dial. Interlocal trunks may be used for either exchange or toll traffic or both.

Circuits between toll centers and circuits between a toll center and a tandem system in a different toll center area.

The portion of a private line circuit which is included in the exchange transmission plant. However, common usage of this term usually excludes information origination/termination equipment.

A central office serving primarily as a place of termination for subscriber lines and for providing telephone service to the subscribers on these lines.

A pair of wires, or its equivalent, between a customer's station and the central office from which the station is served.

A completed call, i.e., a communication in which a conversation or exchange of information took place between the calling and called parties.

Switched service furnished to the general public (as distinguished from private line service). Except as otherwise provided, this includes exchange switched services and all switched services provided by interexchange carriers and completed by a local telephone company's access services, e.g., MTS, WATS, Execunet, open-end FX and CCSA/ONALs.

Unit of measurement used for charging for measured message telephone exchange traffic within a specified area.

The area around and including a relatively large city and in which substantially all of the message telephone traffic between the city and the suburban points within the area is classified as exchange in one or both directions.

A unit of measurement expressed as either holding time or conversation time.

The product of (a) the number of minutes-of-use and (b) the average route kilometers of circuits involved.

An exchange area in which are located two or more local central office buildings or wire centers.

The term denoting the general classifications of services rendered to the public for which separate tariffs are filed, namely exchange, state toll and interstate toll.

A general term, ordinarily applied to trunks between manually operated switchboard positions and local dial central offices in the same wire center.

A service for communications between specified locations for a continuous period or for regularly recurring periods at stated hours.

An access line (e.g., for WATS service) between a subscriber's premises in one toll rate center and a serving central office located in a different toll rate center.

A remotely located subscriber line access unit which is normally dependent upon the central processor of the host office for call processing functions.

Arrangement that permits the extension of TSPS functions to remote locations.

That amount or quantity of property kept or set apart for a specific use.

Kept or set apart for a specific use.

The process by which telecommunication property costs, revenues, expenses, taxes and reserves are apportioned among the operations.

A unit of work measurement which is used as the common denominator to express the relative time required for handling the various work functions at service observing boards.

The actual length of cable in route kilometers.

All services other than message telephones, e.g., private line services.

The term applied to the basis of toll rate making which contemplates that the message toll service charge (telephone) covers the use made of all facilities between the originating station and the terminating station, including the stations, and the services rendered in connection therewith.

Study area boundaries shall be frozen as they are on November 15, 1984.

A communication channel between a telephone station or PBX station and the central office which serves it.

A class of tributary office which does not have direct access to its toll center, but which is connected to its toll center office by means of circuits which are switched through to the toll center at another tributary office.

The general areas served by the local offices having direct trunks to or from the tandem office. This area may consist of one or more communities or may include only a portion of a relatively large city.

A general classification of circuits or trunks between a tandem central office unit and any other central office or switchboard.

A call switched at a tandem office.

A central office unit used primarily as an intermediate switching point for traffic between local central offices within the tandem area. Where qualified by a modifying expression, or other explanation, this term may be applied to an office employed for both the interconnection of local central offices within the tandem area and for the interconnection of these local offices with other central offices, e.g., long haul tandem office.

An office (or group of offices) within a city which generally handles the originating and incoming toll traffic for that city to or from other toll center areas and which handles through switched traffic. The toll center normally handles the inward toll traffic for its tributary exchanges and, in general, either handles the outward traffic originating at its tributaries or serves as the outlet to interexchange circuits for outward traffic ticketed and timed at its tributaries. Toll centers are listed as such in the Toll Rate and Route Guide.

The areas served by a toll center, including the toll center city and the communities served by tributaries of the toll center.

A toll office (as contrasted to a local office) in a toll center city.

A general term applied to interexchange trunks used primarily for toll traffic.

A general classification of trunks carrying toll traffic and ordinarily extending between a local office and a toll office, except trunks classified as tributary circuits. Examples of toll connecting trunks include toll switching trunks, recording trunks and recording-completing trunks.

A central office used primarily for supervising and switching toll traffic.

A term applied to the routing of traffic and denoting routing via principal route for traffic between any two points as distinguished from alternate routes for such traffic.

A stored program electronic system associated with one or more toll switching systems which provides centralized traffic service position functions for several local offices at one location.

A circuit between a tributary office and a toll switchboard or intertoll dialing equipment in a toll center city.

A local office which is located outside the exchange in which a toll center is located, which has a different rate center from its toll center and which usually tickets and times only a part of its originating toll traffic, but which may ticket or time all or none, of such traffic. The toll center handles all outward traffic not ticketed and timed at the tributary and normally switches all inward toll traffic from outside the tributary's toll center to the tributary. Tributary offices are indicated as such in the Toll Rate and Route Guide.

Circuit between switchboards or other switching equipment, as distinguished from circuits which extend between central office switching equipment and information origination/termination equipment.

All groups of operator positions, wherever located, associated with the same TSPS stored program control units.

A measurement of traffic operating work which is used to express the relative time required to handle the various kinds of calls or work functions, and which is weighted to reflect appropriate degrees of waiting to serve time.

A toll service offering for customer dial type telecommunications between a given customer station and stations within specified geographic rate areas employing a single access line between the customer location and the serving central office. Each access line may be arranged for either outward (OUT-WATS) or inward (IN-WATS) service or both.

A communication channel of a bandwidth equivalent to twelve or more voice grade channels.

A revenue producing pair of wires, or its equivalent, between a customer's station and the central office from which the station is served.
