
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Complaints, Applications, Tariffs, and Reports Involving Common Carriers
###### Tariffs
####### ยง 1.773 Petitions for suspension or rejection of new tariff filings.
######## Petition,Content.

(a)-(1)Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing or any provision thereof shall specify the filing's Federal Communications Commission tariff number and carrier transmittal number, the items against which protest is made, and the specific reasons why the protested tariff filing warrants investigation, suspension, or rejection under the Communications Act. No petition shall include a prayer that it also be considered a formal complaint. Any formal complaint shall be filed as a separate pleading as provided in ยง 1.721.

(i) Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing or any provision of such a publication, must specify the pertinent Federal Communications Commission tariff number and carrier transmittal number; the matters protested; and the specific reasons why the tariff warrants investigation, suspension, or rejection. When a single petition asks for more than one form of relief, it must separately and distinctly plead and support each form of relief. However, no petition may ask that it also be considered a formal complaint. Formal complaints must be separately lodged, as provided in ยง 1.721.
