
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Complaints, Applications, Tariffs, and Reports Involving Common Carriers
###### Tariffs
####### ยง 1.773 Petitions for suspension or rejection of new tariff filings.
######## When filed.

(2)All petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing shall meet the filing requirements of this paragraph. In case of emergency and within the time limits provided, a telegraphic request for such relief may be sent to the Commission setting forth succinctly the substance of the matters required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A copy of any such telegraphic request shall be sent simultaneously to the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, the Chief, Pricing Policy Division, and the publishing carrier. Thereafter, the request shall be confirmed by petition filed and served in accordance with ยง 1.773(a)(4).

(i) Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filed pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act made on 7 days notice shall be filed and served within 3 calendar days after the date of the tariff filing.

(ii) Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on less than 15 days notice shall be filed and served within 6 days after the date of the tariff filing.

(iii) Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on at least 15 but less than 30 days notice shall be filed and served within 7 days after the date of the tariff filing.

(iv) Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on at least 30 but less than 90 days notice shall be filed and served within 15 days after the date of the tariff filing.

(v) Petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing mode on 90 or more days notice shall be filed and served within 25 days after the date of the tariff filing.
