
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Complaints, Applications, Tariffs, and Reports Involving Common Carriers
###### Tariffs
####### ยง 1.773 Petitions for suspension or rejection of new tariff filings.
######## Reply,When filed.

(b)-(1)A publishing carrier's reply to a petition for relief from a tariff filing shall be filed in accordance with the following periods:

(i) Replies to petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filed pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Act made on 7 days notice shall be filed and served within 2 days after the date the petition is filed with the Commission.

(ii) Replies to petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on less than 15 days notice shall be filed and served within 3 days after the date the petition is due to be filed with the Commission.

(iii) Replies to petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on at least 15 but less than 30 days notice shall be filed and served within 4 days after service of the petition.

(iv) Replies to petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on at least 30 but less than 90 days notice shall be filed and served within 5 days after service of the petition.

(v) Replies to petitions seeking investigation, suspension, or rejection of a new or revised tariff filing made on 90 or more days notice shall be filed and served within 8 days after service of the petition.

(vi) Where all petitions against a tariff filing have not been filed on the same day, the publishing carrier may file a consolidated reply to all the petitions. The time for filing such a consolidated reply will begin to run on the last date for timely filed petitions, as fixed by paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section, and the date on which the consolidated reply is due will be governed by paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section.
