
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 51 - INTERCONNECTION
##### Subpart J - Transitional Access Service Pricing
###### ยง 51.909 Transition of rate-of-return carrier access charges.
####### Step 4.

(e)Beginning July 1, 2015, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish rates for interstate and intrastate terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:

(i) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall calculate its 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.005 per minute plus one-third of any difference between the 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate and $0.005 per minute.

(ii) Beginning July 1, 2015, no Rate-of-Return Carrier's interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. A rate-of-return carrier shall determine compliance by calculating interstate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rates using the relevant projected interstate demand for the tariff period multiplied by the respective interstate rates as of July 1, 2015, and then dividing by the projected interstate terminating end office local switching demand for the tariff period. A rate-of-return carrier's intrastate terminating end office access rates may not exceed the comparable interstate terminating end office access rates. In the alternative, any Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for both interstate and intrastate terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate if its intrastate terminating end office access rates would be at rate parity with its interstate terminating end office access rates. Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.

(2) [Reserved]
