
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 51 - INTERCONNECTION
##### Subpart J - Transitional Access Service Pricing
###### ยง 51.909 Transition of rate-of-return carrier access charges.
####### 8YY Transition-Step 2.

(m)Beginning July 1, 2021, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules in this chapter, each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall:

(1) Establish separate rate elements for interstate and intrastate toll free originating end office access service and non-toll free originating end office access service. Rate elements reflecting fixed charges associated with originating End Office Access Service shall be treated as non-toll free charges.

(2) Reduce its intrastate toll free originating end office access service rates to its interstate toll free originating end office access service rates as follows:

(i) Calculate total revenue from End Office Access Service, excluding non-usage-based rate elements, at the carrier's interstate access rates in effect on June 30, 2020, using intrastate switched access demand for each rate element for the 12 months ending June 30, 2020.

(ii) Calculate total revenue from End Office Access Service, excluding non-usage based rate elements, at the carrier's intrastate access rates in effect on June 30, 2020, using intrastate switched access demand for each rate element for the 12 months ending June 30, 2020.

(iii) If the value in paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section is less than or equal to the value in paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section, the Rate-of-Return Carrier's intrastate End Office Access Service rates shall remain unchanged.

(iv) If the value in paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section is greater than the value in paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section, the Rate-of-Return Carrier shall reduce intrastate rates for End Office Access Service so that they are equal to the Rate-of-Return Carrier's functionally equivalent interstate rates for End Office Access Rates and shall be subject to the interstate rate structure and all subsequent rate and rate structure modifications.

(v) Except as provided in paragraph (m)(2) of this section, nothing in this section allows a Rate-of-Return Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions to increase such rates. If a Rate-of-Return Carrier has an intrastate rate for an End Office Access Service rate element that less than the comparable interstate rate for that element, the Rate-of-Return Carrier may, if necessary as part of a restructuring to reduce its intrastate rates for End Office Access Service down to parity with functionally equivalent interstate rates, increase the rate for an intrastate rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element to the interstate rate on July 1, 2021.

(3) Establish separate rate elements for interstate and intrastate non-toll free originating transport services for service between an end office switch and the tandem switch and remove its rate for intrastate and interstate originating toll free transport services consistent with a bill-and-keep methodology (as defined in ยง 51.713).

(4) Establish separate rate elements respectively for interstate and intrastate non-toll free originating tandem switching services.

(5) Establish transitional interstate and intrastate Joint Tandem Switched Transport Access rate elements for Toll Free Calls that are respectively no more than $0.001 per minute.

(6) Reduce its interstate and intrastate rates for Toll Free Database Query Charges to no more than $0.004248 per query. Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return carrier that has Toll Free Database Query Charges lower than this rate to make any intrastate or interstate tariff filing revision to increase such rates.
