
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 51 - INTERCONNECTION
##### Subpart J - Transitional Access Service Pricing
###### ยง 51.915 Recovery mechanism for price cap carriers.
####### 3

() For the purpose of establishing its recovery for net reciprocal compensation, a Price Cap Carrier may elect to forgo this step and receive no recovery for reductions in net reciprocal compensation. If a carrier elects this option, it may not change its election at a later date.

(H) An amount equal to True-up Revenues for Access Recovery Charges for the year beginning July 1, 2016.

(viii) Beginning July 1, 2019, and in subsequent years, a Price Cap Carrier's eligible recovery will be equal to the amount calculated in paragraph (d)(1)(vii)(A) through (d)(1)(vii)(H) of this section before the application of the Price Cap Carrier Traffic Demand Factor applicable in 2018 multiplied by the appropriate Price Cap Carrier Traffic Demand Factor for the year in question, and then adding an amount equal to True-up Revenues for Access Recovery Charges for the year beginning July 1 two years earlier.

(2) If a Price Cap Carrier recovers any costs or revenues that are already being recovered through Access Recovery Charges or the Connect America Fund from another source, that carrier's ability to recover reduced switched access revenue from Access Recovery Charges or the Connect America Fund shall be reduced to the extent it receives duplicative recovery. Any duplicative recovery shall be reflected as a reduction to a carrier's Eligible Recovery calculated pursuant to ยง 51.915(d).

(3) A Price Cap Carrier seeking revenue recovery must annually certify as part of its tariff filings to the Commission and to the relevant state commission that the carrier is not seeking duplicative recovery in the state jurisdiction for any Eligible Recovery subject to the recovery mechanism.

(4) If a Price Cap Carrier receives payment for Access Recovery Charges after the period used to measure the adjustment to reflect the differences between estimated and actual revenues, it shall treat such payments as actual revenues in the year the payment is received and shall reflect this as an additional adjustment for that year.
