
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 51 - INTERCONNECTION
##### Subpart J - Transitional Access Service Pricing
###### ยง 51.915 Recovery mechanism for price cap carriers.
####### Price Cap Carrier eligibility for CAF ICC Support.

(f)(1) A Price Cap Carrier shall elect in its July 1, 2012 access tariff filing whether it will receive CAF ICC Support under this paragraph. A Price Cap Carrier eligible to receive CAF ICC Support subsequently may elect at any time not to receive such funding. Once it makes the election not to receive CAFF ICC Support, it may not elect to receive such funding at a later date.

(2) Beginning July 1, 2012, a Price Cap Carrier may recover any eligible recovery allowed by paragraph (d) that it could not have recovered through charges assessed pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section from CAF ICC Support pursuant to ยง 54.304. For this purpose, the Price Cap Carrier must impute the maximum charges it could have assessed under paragraph (e)of this section.

(3) Beginning July 1, 2017, a Price Cap Carrier may recover two-thirds () of the amount it otherwise would have been eligible to recover under paragraph (f)(2) from CAF ICC Support.

(4) Beginning July 1, 2018, a Price Cap Carrier may recover one-third (1/3) of the amount it otherwise would have been eligible to recover under paragraph (f)(2) of this section from CAF ICC Support.

(5) Beginning July 1, 2019, a Price Cap Carrier may no longer recover any amount related to revenue recovery under this paragraph from CAF ICC Support.

(6) A Price Cap Carrier that elects to receive CAF ICC support must certify with its annual access tariff filing that it has complied with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, and, after doing so, is eligible to receive the CAF ICC support requested pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section.
