
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 51 - INTERCONNECTION
##### Subpart J - Transitional Access Service Pricing
###### ยง 51.917 Revenue recovery for Rate-of-Return Carriers.
####### Per-line caps and other limitations on Access Recovery Charges.

(6)(i) For each line other than lines of Lifeline Customers assessed a primary residential or single-line business end user common line charge pursuant to ยง 69.104 of this chapter, a Rate-of-Return Carrier may assess an Access Recovery Charge as follows:

(A) Beginning July 1, 2012, a maximum of $0.50 per month for each line;

(B) Beginning July 1, 2013, a maximum of $1.00 per month for each line;

(C) Beginning July 1, 2014, a maximum of $1.50 per month for each line;

(D) Beginning July 1, 2015, a maximum of $2.00 per month for each line;

(E) Beginning July 1, 2016, a maximum of $2.50 per month for each line; and

(F) Beginning July 1, 2017, a maximum of $3.00 per month for each line.

(ii) For each line assessed a multi-line business end user common line charge pursuant to ยง 69.104 of this chapter, a Rate-of-Return Carrier may assess an Access Recovery Charge as follows:

(A) Beginning July 1, 2012, a maximum of $1.00 per month for each multi-line business end user common line charge assessed;

(B) Beginning July 1, 2013, a maximum of $2.00 per month for each multi-line business end user common line charge assessed;

(C) Beginning July 1, 2014, a maximum of $3.00 per month for each multi-line business end user common line charge assessed;

(D) Beginning July 1, 2015, a maximum of $4.00 per month for each multi-line business end user common line charge assessed;

(E) Beginning July 1, 2016, a maximum of $5.00 per month for each multi-line business end user common line charge assessed; and

(F) Beginning July 1, 2017, a maximum of $6.00 per month for each multi-line business end user common line charge assessed.

(iii) The Access Recovery Charge allowed by paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section may not be assessed to the extent that its assessment would bring the total of the Rate Ceiling Component Charges above the Residential Rate Ceiling. This limitation does not apply to single-line business customers.

(iv) The Access Recovery Charge allowed by paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section may not be assessed to the extent that its assessment would bring the total of the multi-line business end user common line charge and the Access Recovery Charge above $12.20 per line.

(v) The Access Recovery Charge may not be assessed on lines of Lifeline Customers.

(vi) If in any year, the Rate of return carriers' Access Recovery Charge is not at its maximum, the succeeding year's Access Recovery Charge may not increase more than $0.50 per line for charges under paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section or $1.00 per line for charges assessed under paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section.

(vii) A Price Cap Carrier with study areas that are subject to rate-of-return regulation shall recover its eligible recovery for such study areas through the recovery procedures specified in this section. For that purpose, the provisions of paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall apply to the rate-of-return study areas if the applicable conditions in paragraph (e)(3) of this section are met.
