
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 52 - NUMBERING
##### Subpart B - Administration
###### ยง 52.15 Central office code administration.
####### See

(G) Certification pursuant to Sections 1.2001 and 1.2002 of this chapter that no party to the application is subject to a denial of Federal benefits pursuant to section 5301 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988.21 U.S.C. 862.

(ii) An applicant for Commission authorization under this section must file its application electronically through the "Submit a Non-Docketed Filing" module of the Commission's Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS). Once the Commission reviews the application and assigns a docket number, the applicant must make all subsequent filings relating to its application in this docket. Parties may file comments addressing an application for authorization no later than 15 days after the Commission releases a public notice stating that the application has been accepted for filing, unless the public notice specifies a different filing date.

(iii) An application under this section is deemed granted by the Commission on the 31st day after the Commission releases a public notice stating that the application has been accepted for filing, unless the Wireline Competition Bureau (Bureau) notifies the applicant that the grant will not be automatically effective. The Bureau may halt this auto-grant process if;

(A) An applicant fails to respond promptly to Commission inquiries,

(B) An application is associated with a non-routine request for waiver of the Commission's rules,

(C) Timely-filed comments on the application raise public interest concerns that require further Commission review, or

(D) The Bureau determines that the application requires further analysis to determine whether granting the application serves the public interest. The Commission reserves the right to request additional information after its initial review of an application.
