
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 52 - NUMBERING
##### Subpart B - Administration
###### ยง 52.15 Central office code administration.
####### Reclamation of numbering resources.

(i)(1) Reclamation refers to the process by which service providers are required to return numbering resources to the NANPA or the Pooling Administrator.

(2) State commissions may investigate and determine whether service providers have activated their numbering resources and may request proof from all service providers that numbering resources have been activated and assignment of telephone numbers has commenced.

(3) Service providers may be required to reduce contamination levels to facilitate reclamation and/or pooling.

(4) State commissions shall provide service providers an opportunity to explain the circumstances causing the delay in activating and commencing assignment of their numbering resources prior to initiating reclamation.

(5) The NANPA and the Pooling Administrator shall abide by the state commission's determination to reclaim numbering resources if the state commission is satisfied that the service provider has not activated and commenced assignment to end users of their numbering resources within six months of receipt.

(6) The NANPA and Pooling Administrator shall initiate reclamation within sixty days of expiration of the service provider's applicable activation deadline.

(7) If a state commission declines to exercise the authority delegated to it in this paragraph, the entity or entities designated by the Commission to serve as the NANPA shall exercise this authority with respect to NXX codes and the Pooling Administrator shall exercise this authority with respect to thousands-blocks. The NANPA and the Pooling Administrator shall consult with the Wireline Competition Bureau prior to exercising the authority delegated to it in this provision.
