
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 52 - NUMBERING
##### Subpart B - Administration
###### ยง 52.15 Central office code administration.
####### Numbering audits.

(k)(1) All telecommunications service providers shall be subject to "for cause" and random audits to verify carrier compliance with Commission regulations and applicable industry guidelines relating to numbering administration.

(2) The Enforcement Bureau will oversee the conduct and scope of all numbering audits conducted under the Commission's jurisdiction, and determine the audit procedures necessary to perform the audit. Numbering audits performed by independent auditors pursuant to this section shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' standards for compliance attestation engagements, as supplemented by the guidance and direction of the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau.

(3) Requests for "for cause" audits shall be forwarded to the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau, with a copy to the Chief of the Common Carrier Bureau. Requests must state the reason for which a "for cause" audit is being requested and include documentation of the alleged anomaly, inconsistency, or violation of the Commission rules or orders or applicable industry guidelines. The Chief of the Enforcement Bureau will provide carriers up to 30 days to provide a written response to a request for a "for cause" audit.
