
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 52 - NUMBERING
##### Subpart C - Number Portability
###### ยง 52.23 Deployment of long-term database methods for number portability by LECs.
####### i.e.

(d) The Chief, Common Carrier Bureau, may waive or stay any of the dates in the implementation schedule, as the Chief determines is necessary to ensure the efficient development of number portability, for a period not to exceed 9 months (, no later than September 30, 1999).

(e) In the event a LEC is unable to meet the Commission's deadlines for implementing a long-term database method for number portability, it may file with the Commission at least 60 days in advance of the deadline a petition to extend the time by which implementation in its network will be completed. A LEC seeking such relief must demonstrate through substantial, credible evidence the basis for its contention that it is unable to comply with the deployment schedule set forth in the appendix to this part 52. Such requests must set forth:

(1) The facts that demonstrate why the carrier is unable to meet the Commission's deployment schedule;

(2) A detailed explanation of the activities that the carrier has undertaken to meet the implementation schedule prior to requesting an extension of time;

(3) An identification of the particular switches for which the extension is requested;

(4) The time within which the carrier will complete deployment in the affected switches; and

(5) A proposed schedule with milestones for meeting the deployment date.

(f) The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall monitor the progress of local exchange carriers implementing number portability, and may direct such carriers to take any actions necessary to ensure compliance with the deployment schedule set forth in the appendix to this part 52.

(g) Carriers that are members of the Illinois Local Number Portability Workshop must conduct a field test of any technically feasible long-term database method for number portability in the Chicago, Illinois, area. The carriers participating in the test must jointly file with the Common Carrier Bureau a report of their findings within 30 days following completion of the test. The Chief, Common Carrier Bureau, shall monitor developments during the field test, and may adjust the field test completion deadline as necessary.

(h)(1) Porting from a wireline carrier to a wireless carrier is required where the requesting wireless carrier's "coverage area," as defined in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, overlaps the geographic location in which the customer's wireline number is provisioned, provided that the porting-in carrier maintains the number's original rate center designation following the port.

(2) The wireless "coverage area" is defined as the area in which wireless service can be received from the wireless carrier.
