
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart D - Universal Service Support for High Cost Areas
###### ยง 54.307 Support to a competitive eligible telecommunications carrier.
####### Eligibility for support after Connect America Phase II auction.

(9)Starting the first day of the month following the first authorization of Connect America Phase II auction support nationwide, fixed competitive eligible telecommunications carriers shall have the option of receiving support pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section as described in the following paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (iv):

(i) For 12 months following the first authorization of Connect America Phase II auction support nationwide, each fixed competitive eligible telecommunications carrier shall receive two-thirds () of the carrier's total support pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) For 12 months starting the month following the period described in paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section, each fixed competitive eligible telecommunications carrier shall receive one-third () of the carrier's total support pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Following the period described in paragraph (e)(8)(ii) of this section, no fixed competitive eligible telecommunications carrier shall receive any support pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.

(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing schedule, the phase-down of support below the level described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section shall be subject to the restrictions in Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, Public Law 114-113, Div. E, Title VI, section 631, 129 Stat. 2242, 2470 (2015), unless and until such restrictions are no longer in effect.
