
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart D - Universal Service Support for High Cost Areas
###### ยง 54.310 Connect America Fund for Price Cap Territories - Phase II.
####### Transition to Rural Digital Opportunity Fund support.

(h)(1) In areas where the eligible telecommunications carrier elects to receive an optional seventh year of model-based support pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, it shall receive such support for a full calendar year, regardless of the disposition of these areas in the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund auction.

(i) If the eligible telecommunications carrier becomes the winning bidder in the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund auction in these areas, it shall continue to receive model-based support through December 31, 2021. Thereafter, it shall receive monthly support in the amount of its Rural Digital Opportunity Fund winning bid.

(ii) If another provider is the winning bidder in the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund auction in these areas, the new provider shall receive monthly support in the amount of its Rural Digital Opportunity Fund winning bid starting the first day of the month following its authorization by the Wireline Competition Bureau. The eligible telecommunications carrier shall continue to receive model-based support for these areas through December 31, 2021.

(iii) If there is no authorized Rural Digital Opportunity Fund auction support recipient in these areas or if these areas are deemed ineligible for the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund auction, the eligible telecommunications carrier shall continue to receive model-based support for these areas through December 31, 2021. Thereafter, it shall receive no additional support.

(2) In areas where the eligible telecommunications carrier declines to receive an optional seventh year of model-based support pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, it shall cease receiving model-based support for these areas on December 31, 2020.
