
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart D - Universal Service Support for High Cost Areas
###### ยง 54.311 Connect America Fund Alternative-Connect America Cost Model Support.
####### Voluntary election of model-based support.

(a)A rate-of-return carrier (as that term is defined in ยง 54.5) receiving support pursuant to subparts K or M of this part shall have the opportunity to voluntarily elect, on a state-level basis, to receive Connect America Fund-Alternative Connect America Cost Model (CAF-ACAM) support as calculated by the Alternative-Connect America Cost Model (A-CAM) adopted by the Commission in lieu of support calculated pursuant to subparts K or M of this part. Any rate-of-return carrier not electing support pursuant to this section shall continue to receive support calculated pursuant to those mechanisms as specified in Commission rules for high-cost support.

(1) For the purposes of this section, "A-CAM I" refers to carriers initially authorized to receive CAF-ACAM support as of January 24, 2017, including any carriers that later elected revised offers, except for carriers described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. For such carriers, the first program year of CAF-ACAM is 2017.

(2) For the purposes of this section, "Revised A-CAM I" refers to carriers initially authorized to receive CAF-ACAM support as of January 24, 2017, and were subsequently authorized to receive CAF-ACAM pursuant to a revised offer after January 1, 2019. For such carriers, the first program year of CAF-ACAM is 2017.

(3) For the purposes of this section, "A-CAM II" refers to carriers first authorized to receive A-CAM support after January 1, 2019. For such carriers, the first program year of CAF-ACAM is 2019.
