
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart D - Universal Service Support for High Cost Areas
###### § 54.311 Connect America Fund Alternative-Connect America Cost Model Support.
####### Interim deployment milestones.

(d)Recipients of CAF-ACAM model-based support must meet the following interim milestones with respect to their deployment obligations set forth in § 54.308(a)(1)(i) of this subpart. Compliance shall be determined based on the total number of fully funded locations in a state. Carriers that complete deployment to at least 95 percent of the requisite number of locations will be deemed to be in compliance with their deployment obligations. The remaining locations that receive capped support are subject to the standard specified in § 54.308(a)(1)(ii).

(1) A-CAM I and Revised A-CAM I carriers must complete deployment of 10/1 Mbps service to a number of eligible locations equal to 40 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2020, to 50 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2021, to 60 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2022, to 70 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2023, to 80 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2024, to 90 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2025, and to 100 percent of fully funded locations by the end of 2026. By the end of 2026, A-CAM I carriers must complete deployment of broadband meeting a standard of at least 25 Mbps downstream/3 Mbps upstream to the requisite number of locations specified in § 54.308(a)(1)(i). For Revised A-CAM I carriers, the deployment milestones for 10/1 Mbps service described in this paragraph shall be based on the number of locations that were fully funded pursuant to authorizations made prior to January 1, 2019.

(2) Revised A-CAM I and A-CAM II carriers must complete deployment of 25/3 Mbps service to a number of eligible locations equal to 40 percent of locations required by § 54.308(a)(1) of this subpart by the end of 2022, 50 percent of requisite locations by the end of 2023, 60 percent of requisite locations by the end of 2024, 70 percent of requisite location by the end of 2025, 80 percent of requisite locations by the end of 2026, 90 percent of requisite locations by the end of 2027, and 100 percent of requisite locations by the end of 2028.
