
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Wireless Radio Services Applications and Proceedings
###### Application Requirements and Procedures
####### ยง 1.913 Application and notification forms; electronic and manual filing.
######## Electronic filing.

(b)Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section or elsewhere in this chapter, all applications and other filings using the application and notification forms listed in this section or associated schedules must be filed electronically in accordance with the electronic filing instructions provided by ULS. For each Wireless Radio Service that is subject to mandatory electronic filing, this paragraph is effective on July 1, 1999, or six months after the Commission begins use of ULS to process applications in the service, whichever is later. The Commission will announce by public notice the deployment date of each service in ULS.

(1) Attachments to applications and notifications should be uploaded along with the electronically filed applications and notifications whenever possible. The files, other than the ASCII table of contents, should be in Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) whenever possible.

(2) Any associated documents submitted with an application or notification must be uploaded as attachments to the application or notification whenever possible. The attachment should be uploaded via ULS in Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) whenever possible.
