
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart E - Universal Service Support for Low-Income Consumers
###### ยง 54.406 Activities of representatives of eligible telecommunications carriers.
####### Enrollment representative registration.

(a)An eligible telecommunications carrier must require that enrollment representatives register with the Universal Service Administrative Company before the enrollment representative can provide information directly or indirectly to the National Lifeline Accountability Database or the National Verifier.

(1) As part of the registration process, eligible telecommunications carriers must require that all enrollment representatives must provide the Universal Service Administrative Company with identifying information, which may include first and last name, date of birth, the last four digits of his or her social security number, email address, and residential address. Enrollment representatives will be assigned a unique identifier, which must be used for:

(i) Accessing the National Lifeline Accountability Database;

(ii) Accessing the National Verifier;

(iii) Accessing any Lifeline eligibility database; and

(iv) Completing any Lifeline enrollment or recertification forms.

(2) Eligible telecommunications carriers must ensure that enrollment representatives shall not use another person's unique identifier to enroll Lifeline subscribers, recertify Lifeline subscribers, or access the National Lifeline Accountability Database or National Verifier.

(3) Eligible telecommunications carriers must ensure that enrollment representatives shall regularly recertify their status with the Universal Service Administrative Company to maintain their unique identifier and maintain access to the systems that rely on a valid unique identifier. Eligible telecommunications carriers must also ensure that enrollment representatives shall update their registration information within 30 days of any change in such information.

(4) Enrollment representatives are not required to register with the Universal Service Administrative Company if the enrollment representative operates solely in a state that has been approved by the Commission to administer the Lifeline program without reliance on the Universal Service Administrative Company's systems. The exemption in this paragraph (a)(4) will not apply to any part of a state's administration of the Lifeline program that relies on the Universal Service Administrative Company's systems.
