
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart E - Universal Service Support for Low-Income Consumers
###### ยง 54.423 Budget.
####### Increase calculation.

(2)To measure increases in the rate of inflation for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission shall use the Consumer Price Index for all items from the Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. To compute the annual increase as required by this paragraph (a), the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index from the previous year will be used. For instance, the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index from 2015 to 2016 would be used for the 2017 funding year. The increase shall be rounded to the nearest 0.1 percent by rounding 0.05 percent and above to the next higher 0.1 percent and otherwise rounding to the next lower 0.1 percent. This percentage increase shall be added to the amount of the annual funding cap from the previous funding year. If the yearly average Consumer Price Index decreases or stays the same, the annual funding cap shall remain the same as the previous year.

(3) The Wireline Competition Bureau shall issue a public notice on or before July 31 containing the results of the calculations described in ยง 54.403(a)(2) and setting the budget for the upcoming year beginning on January 1.

(b) If spending in the Lifeline program meets or exceeds 90 percent of the Lifeline budget in a calendar year, the Wireline Competition Bureau shall prepare a report evaluating program disbursements and describing the reasons for the program's growth along with any other information relevant to the operation of the Lifeline program. The Bureau shall submit the report to the Commission by July 31st of the following year.
