
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Wireless Radio Services Applications and Proceedings
###### Application Requirements and Procedures
####### ยง 1.923 Content of applications.
######## Antenna structure registration.

(d)Owners of certain antenna structures must notify the Federal Aviation Administration and register with the Commission as required by part 17 of this chapter. Applications proposing the use of one or more new or existing antenna structures must contain the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) of each structure for which registration is required. To facilitate frequency coordination or for other purposes, the Bureau shall accept for filing an application that does not contain the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number so long as;

(1) The antenna structure owner has filed an antenna structure registration application (FCC Form 854);

(2) The antenna structure owner has provided local notice and the Commission has posted notification of the proposed construction on its Web site pursuant to ยง 17.4(c)(3) and (4) of this chapter; and

(3) The antenna structure owner has obtained a Determination of No Hazard to Aircraft Navigation from the Federal Aviation Administration. In such instances, the applicant shall provide the FCC Form 854 File Number on its application. Once the antenna structure owner has obtained the Antenna Structure Registration Number, the applicant shall amend its application to provide the Antenna Structure Registration Number, and the Commission shall not grant the application before the Antenna Structure Registration Number has been provided. If registration is not required, the applicant must provide information in its application sufficient for the Commission to verify this fact.
