
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart F - Universal Service Support for Schools and Libraries
###### ยง 54.507 Cap.
####### Annual filing requirement.

(d)(1) Schools and libraries, and consortia of such eligible entities shall file new funding requests for each funding year no sooner than the July 1 prior to the start of that funding year. Schools, libraries, and eligible consortia must use recurring services for which discounts have been committed by the Administrator within the funding year for which the discounts were sought.

(2) Installation of category one non-recurring services may begin on January 1 prior to the July 1 start of the funding year, provided the following conditions are met:

(i) Construction begins after selection of the service provider pursuant to a posted FCC Form 470,

(ii) A category one recurring service must depend on the installation of the infrastructure, and

(iii) The actual service start date for that recurring service is on or after the start of the funding year (July 1).

(3) Installation of category two non-recurring services may begin on April 1 prior to the July 1 start of the funding year.

(4) The deadline for implementation of all non-recurring services will be September 30 following the close of the funding year. An applicant may request and receive from the Administrator an extension of the implementation deadline for non-recurring services if it satisfies one of the following criteria:

(i) The applicant's funding commitment decision letter is issued by the Administrator on or after March 1 of the funding year for which discounts are authorized;

(ii) The applicant receives a service provider change authorization or service substitution authorization from the Administrator on or after March 1 of the funding year for which discounts are authorized;

(iii) The applicant's service provider is unable to complete implementation for reasons beyond the service provider's control; or

(iv) The applicant's service provider is unwilling to complete installation because funding disbursements are delayed while the Administrator investigates the application for program compliance.
