
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart F - Universal Service Support for Schools and Libraries
###### ยง 54.507 Cap.
####### Category two.

(2)The Administrator shall next calculate the demand for category two services for all discount categories as determined by the schools and libraries discount matrix in ยง 54.505(c). If that demand exceeds the category two budget for that funding year, the Administrator shall allocate the category two funds beginning with the most economically disadvantaged schools and libraries, as determined by the schools and libraries discount matrix in ยง 54.505(c). The Administrator shall allocate funds toward the category two requests submitted by schools and libraries eligible for an 85 percent discount first, then for a 80 percent discount, and shall continue committing funds in the same manner to the applicants at each descending discount level until there are no category two funds remaining.

(3) To the extent that there are single discount percentage levels associated with "shared services" under ยง 54.505(b)(4), the Administrator shall allocate funds to the applicants at each descending discount level (e.g., 90 percent, 89 percent, then 88 percent) until there are no funds remaining.

(4) For both paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, if the remaining funds are not sufficient to support all of the funding requests within a particular discount level, the Administrator shall allocate funds at that discount level using the percentage of students eligible for the National School Lunch Program. Thus, if there is not enough support to fund all requests at the 40 percent discount level, the Administrator shall allocate funds beginning with those applicants with the highest percentage of NSLP eligibility for that discount level by funding those applicants with 19 percent NSLP eligibility, then 18 percent NSLP eligibility, and shall continue committing funds in the same manner to applicants at each descending percentage of NSLP until there are no funds remaining.
