
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart F - Universal Service Support for Schools and Libraries
###### ยง 54.520 Children's Internet Protection Act certifications required from recipients of discounts under the federal universal service support mechanism for schools and libraries.
####### Statutory definitions.

(4)

(i) The term "minor" means any individual who has not attained the age of 17 years.

(ii) The term "obscene" has the meaning given such term in 18 U.S.C. 1460.

(iii) The term "child pornography" has the meaning given such term in 18 U.S.C. 2256.

(iv) The term "harmful to minors" means any picture, image, graphic image file, or other visual depiction that-

(A) Taken as a whole and with respect to minors, appeals to a prurient interest in nudity, sex, or excretion;

(B) Depicts, describes, or represents, in a patently offensive way with respect to what is suitable for minors, an actual or simulated sexual act or sexual contact, actual or simulated normal or perverted sexual acts, or a lewd exhibition of the genitals; and

(C) Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value as to minors.

(v) The terms "sexual act" and "sexual contact" have the meanings given such terms in 18 U.S.C. 2246.

(vi) The term "technology protection measure" means a specific technology that blocks or filters Internet access to the material covered by a certification under paragraph (c) of this section.
