
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Wireless Radio Services Applications and Proceedings
###### Application Requirements and Procedures
####### ยง 1.924 Quiet zones.
######## NRAO, NRRO.

(a)The requirements of this paragraph are intended to minimize possible interference at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory site located at Green Bank, Pocahontas County, West Virginia, and at the Naval Radio Research Observatory site at Sugar Grove, Pendleton County, West Virginia.

(1) Applicants and licensees planning to construct and operate a new or modified station at a permanent fixed location within the area bounded by N 39&#xB0;15&#x2032;0.4&#x2033; on the north, W 78&#xB0;29&#x2032;59.0&#x2033; on the east, N 37&#xB0;30&#x2032;0.4&#x2033; on the south, and W 80&#xB0;29&#x2032;59.2&#x2033; on the west must notify the Director, National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Post Office Box No. 2, Green Bank, West Virginia 24944, in writing, of the technical details of the proposed operation. The notification must include the geographical coordinates of the antenna location, the antenna height, antenna directivity (if any), the channel, the emission type and power.

(2) When an application for authority to operate a station is filed with the FCC, the notification required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be made prior to, or simultaneously with the application. The application must state the date that notification in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section was made. After receipt of such applications, the FCC will allow a period of 20 days for comments or objections in response to the notifications indicated. If an applicant submits written consent from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory for itself or on behalf of the Naval Radio Research Observatory, the FCC will process the application without awaiting the conclusion of the 20-day period. For services that do not require individual station authorization, entities that have obtained written consent from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory for itself or on behalf of the Naval Radio Research Observatory may begin to operate new or modified facilities prior to the end of the 20-day period. In instances in which notification has been made to the National Radio Astronomy Observatory prior to application filing, the applicant must also provide notice to the quiet zone entity upon actual filing of the application with the FCC. Such notice will be made simultaneous with the filing of the application and shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) If an objection is received during the 20-day period from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory for itself or on behalf of the Naval Radio Research Observatory, the FCC will, after consideration of the record, take whatever action is deemed appropriate.
