
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart G - Universal Service for Rural Health Care Program
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 54.622 Competitive bidding requirements and exemptions.
######## Fair and open process.

(b)(1) Applicants participating in the Telecommunications Program or Healthcare Connect Fund Program must conduct a fair and open competitive bidding process. The following actions are necessary to satisfy the "fair and open" competitive standard in the Telecommunications Program and the Healthcare Connect Fund Program:

(i) All potential bidders and service providers must have access to the same information and must be treated in the same manner throughout the procurement process.

(ii) Service providers who intend to bid on supported services many not simultaneously help the applicant complete its request for proposal (RFP) or Request for Services form.

(iii) Service providers who have submitted a bid to provide supported services, equipment, or facilities to a health care provider may not simultaneously help the health care provider evaluate submitted bids or choose a winning bid.

(iv) Applicants must respond to all service providers that have submitted questions or proposals during the competitive bidding process.

(v) All applicants and service providers must comply with any applicable state, Tribal, or local procurement laws, in addition to the Commission's competitive bidding requirements. The competitive bidding requirements in this section are not intended to preempt such state, Tribal, or local requirements.
