
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart G - Universal Service for Rural Health Care Program
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 54.622 Competitive bidding requirements and exemptions.
######## Request for proposal (if applicable).

(5)(i) Any applicant may use an RFP. Applicants who use an RFP must submit the RFP and any additional relevant bidding information to the Administrator with its Request for Services.

(ii) An applicant must submit an RFP:

(A) If it is required to issue an RFP under applicable State, Tribal, or local procurement rules or regulations;

(B) If the applicant is a consortium seeking more than $100,000 in program support during the funding year, including applications that seek more than $100,000 in program support for a multi-year commitment; or

(C) If the applicant is a consortium seeking support for participant-constructed and owned network facilities.

(iii) RFP requirements.

(A) An RFP must provide sufficient information to enable an effective competitive bidding process, including describing the health care provider's service needs and defining the scope of the project and network costs (if applicable).

(B) An RFP must specify the time period during which bids will be accepted.

(C) An RFP must include the bid evaluation criteria described in paragraph (d) in this section, and solicit sufficient information so that the criteria can be applied effectively.
