
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart H - Administration
###### ยง 54.703 The Administrator's Board of Directors.
####### Selection process for board of directors.

(c)(1) Sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of a director's term, the industry or non-industry group that is represented by such director on the Administrator's Board of Directors, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, shall nominate by consensus a new director. The industry or non-industry group shall submit the name of its nominee for a seat on the Administrator's Board of Directors, along with relevant professional and biographical information about the nominee, to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Only members of the industry or non-industry group that a Board member will represent may submit a nomination for that position.

(2) The name of an industry or non-industry group's nominee shall be filed with the Office of the Secretary of the Federal Communications Commission in accordance with part 1 of this chapter. The document nominating a candidate shall be captioned "In the matter of: Nomination for Universal Service Administrator's Board of Directors" and shall reference FCC Docket Nos. 97-21 and 96-45. Each nomination shall specify the position on the Board of Directors for which such nomination is submitted. Two copies of the document nominating a candidate shall be submitted to the Wireline Competition Bureau's Telecommunications Access Policy Division.

(3) The Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission shall review the nominations submitted by industry and non-industry groups and select each director of the Administrator's Board of Directors, as each director's term expires pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. If an industry or non-industry group does not reach consensus on a nominee or fails to submit a nomination for a position on the Administrator's Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission shall select an individual to represent such group on the Administrator's Board of Directors.
