
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart J - Rural Digital Opportunity Fund
###### ยง 54.804 Rural Digital Opportunity Fund application process.
####### Value.

(1)Each recipient authorized to receive Rural Digital Opportunity Fund support shall maintain the standby letter of credit in an amount equal to, at a minimum, one year of support, until the Universal Service Administrative Company has verified that the recipient has served 100 percent of the Connect America Cost Model-determined location total (or the adjusted Connect America Cost Model location count if there are fewer locations) by the end of year six.

(i) For year one of a recipient's support term, it must obtain a letter of credit valued at an amount equal to one year of support.

(ii) For year two of a recipient's support term, it must obtain a letter of credit valued at an amount equal to eighteen months of support.

(iii) For year three of a recipient's support term, it must obtain a letter of credit valued at an amount equal to two years of support.

(iv) For year four of a recipient's support term, it must obtain a letter of credit valued at an amount equal to three years of support.

(v) A recipient may obtain a new letter of credit or renew its existing letter of credit so that it is valued at an amount equal to one year of support once it meets its optional or required service milestones. The recipient may obtain or renew this letter of credit upon verification of its buildout by the Universal Service Administrative Company. The recipient may maintain its letter of credit at this level for the remainder of its deployment term, so long as the Universal Service Administrative Company verifies that the recipient successfully and timely meets its remaining required service milestones.

(vi) A recipient that fails to meet its required service milestones must obtain a new letter of credit or renew its existing letter of credit at an amount equal to its existing letter of credit, plus an additional year of support, up to a maximum of three years of support.

(vii) A recipient that fails to meet two or more required service milestones must maintain a letter of credit in the amount of three year of support and may be subject to additional non-compliance penalties as described in ยง 54.320(d).
