
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart L - Mobility Fund and 5G Fund
###### ยง 54.1013 Applicant eligibility.

(a) An applicant for 5G Fund support shall be an eligible telecommunications carrier in an area in order to receive 5G Fund support for that area. The applicant may obtain its designation as an eligible telecommunications carrier after the close of a 5G Fund auction, provided that the applicant submits proof of its designation within 180 days after the release of the public notice identifying the applicant as a winning bidder. The eligible telecommunications carrier service area of a 5G Fund support recipient will not be required to conform to the service area of the rural telephone company serving the same area. An applicant for 5G Fund support shall not receive such support prior to the submission of proof of its designation as an eligible telecommunications carrier. After such submission, the eligible telecommunications carrier shall receive a balloon payment that will consist of the carrier's monthly 5G Fund support amount multiplied by the number of whole months between the first day of the month after the close of the auction and the issuance of the public notice authorizing the carrier to receive 5G Fund support.

(b) An applicant must have exclusive access to Commission licensed spectrum and sufficient bandwidth in an area that enables it to satisfy the performance requirements specified in ยง 54.1015 in order to receive 5G Fund support for that area. The applicant shall describe its access to spectrum as specified in ยง 54.1014(a)(3) and certify, in a form acceptable to the Commission, that it has such access and sufficient bandwidth (at a minimum, 10 megahertz x 10 megahertz using frequency division duplex (FDD) or 20 megahertz using time division duplex (TDD)) in each area in which it intends to bid for support at the time it applies to participate in competitive bidding, and that it will retain such access for at least ten (10) years after the date on which it is authorized to receive support. A winning bidder that applies for 5G Fund support applicant shall describe its access to spectrum as specified in ยง 54.1014(b)(2)(v) at the time it applies for support and certify, in a form acceptable to the Commission, that it has such access and sufficient bandwidth (at a minimum, 10 megahertz x 10 megahertz using frequency division duplex (FDD) or 20 megahertz using time division duplex (TDD)) in each area in which it is applying for support, and that it will retain such access for at least ten (10) years after the date on which it is authorized to receive support.

(c) An applicant shall certify that it is financially and technically qualified to provide the services supported by the 5G Fund within the ten (10) year support term in each geographic area for which it seeks and is authorized to receive support.
