
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart M - High Cost Loop Support for Rate-of-Return Carriers
###### ยง 54.1309 National and study area average unseparated loop costs.
####### National average unseparated loop cost per working loop.

(a)Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, this is equal to the sum of the Loop Costs for each study area in the country as calculated pursuant to ยง 54.1308(a) divided by the sum of the working loops reported in ยง 54.1305(h) for each study area in the country. The national average unseparated loop cost per working loop shall be calculated by the National Exchange Carrier Association. Until June 30, 2015 the national average unseparated loop cost for purposes of calculating expense adjustments for rural incumbent local exchange carriers, as that term is defined in ยง 54.5 is frozen at $240.00.

(1) The national average unseparated loop cost per working loop shall be recalculated by the National Exchange Carrier Association to reflect the September, December, and March update filings.

(2) Each new nationwide average shall be used in determining the additional interstate expense allocation for companies which made filings by the most recent filing date.

(3) The calculation of a new national average to reflect the update filings shall not affect the amount of the additional interstate expense allocation for companies which did not make an update filing by the most recent filing date.
