
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart M - High Cost Loop Support for Rate-of-Return Carriers
###### § 54.1310 Expense adjustment.

(a) Until June 30, 2015, for study areas reporting 200,000 or fewer working loops pursuant to § 54.1305(h), the expense adjustment (additional interstate expense allocation) is equal to the sum of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Sixty-five percent of the study area average unseparated loop cost per working loop as calculated pursuant to § 54.1309(b) in excess of 115 percent of the national average for this cost but not greater than 150 percent of the national average for this cost as calculated pursuant to § 54.1309(a) multiplied by the number of working loops reported in § 54.1305(h) for the study area; and

(2) Seventy-five percent of the study area average unseparated loop cost per working loop as calculated pursuant to § 54.1309(b) in excess of 150 percent of the national average for this cost as calculated pursuant to § 54.1309(a) multiplied by the number of working loops reported in § 54.1305(h) for the study area.

(b) Beginning July 1, 2015, the expense adjustment for each study area calculated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be adjusted as follows:

(1) If the aggregate expense adjustments for all study areas exceed the maximum rural incumbent local exchange carrier portion of nationwide loop cost expense adjustment allowable pursuant to § 54.1302(a) (the HCLS cap), then each study area's expense adjustment will be reduced by multiplying it by the ratio of the HCLS cap to the aggregate expense adjustments for all study areas.

(2) If the aggregate expense adjustments for all study areas are less than the HCLS cap set pursuant to § 54.1302(a), then the expense adjustments for all study areas pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be recalculated using a cost per loop calculated to produce an aggregate amount equal to the HCLS cap in place of the national average cost per loop.

(c) The expense adjustment calculated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be adjusted each year to reflect changes in the amount of high-cost loop support resulting from adjustments calculated pursuant to § 54.1306(a) made during the previous year. If the resulting amount exceeds the previous year's fund size, the difference will be added to the amount calculated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for the following year. If the adjustments made during the previous year result in a decrease in the size of the funding requirement, the difference will be subtracted from the amount calculated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for the following year.

(d) High Cost Loop Support is subject to a reduction as necessary to meet the overall cap on support established by the Commission for support provided pursuant to this subpart and subpart K of this chapter. Reductions shall be implemented as follows:

(1) On May 1 of each year, the Administrator will publish an annual target amount for High-Cost Loop Support in the aggregate. The target amount shall be the forecasted disbursement amount times a reduction factor. The reduction factor shall be the budget amount divided by the total forecasted disbursement amount for both High Cost Loop Support and Broadband Loop Support for recipients in the aggregate. The forecasted disbursement for High Cost Loop Support is the High Cost Loop Support cap determined pursuant to § 54.1302 as reflected in the most recent annual filing pursuant to § 54.1305.

(2) Each January 1 and July 1, the Administrator shall apply a pro rata reduction to High Cost Loop Support for each recipient of High Cost Loop Support as necessary to achieve the target amount.

(3) This paragraph (d) shall not apply to support provided from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018.
