
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart Q - Emergency Connectivity Fund
###### ยง 54.1708 Emergency Connectivity Fund cap and requests.
####### Requests.

(b)The Administrator shall implement an initial filing window, covering funding for purchases made between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022 for eligible equipment and services provided to students, school staff, and library patrons who would otherwise lack connected devices and/or broadband internet access services sufficient to engage in remote learning. All schools and libraries filing an application within that the initial filing period will have their applications treated as if they were simultaneously received. The initial filing period shall conclude after 45 days. If demand does not exceed available funds for the first filing window, the Wireline Competition Bureau will direct the Administrator to open a second application window for schools and libraries to seek funding for eligible equipment and services schools and libraries previously purchased to address the needs of students, school staff, and library patrons who would otherwise have lacked access to the equipment or services sufficient to engage in these activities during the COVID-19 pandemic. During this second application window, applicants will be able to submit requests for funding for purchases made from March 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. However, in consideration of the importance of providing support for unconnected students, in the event that demand for prospective support in the first window appears to be far short of meeting current needs, the Commission may consider opening a second prospective window before opening an application window to fund previously purchased eligible equipment and services. If demand does not exceed available funds after the close of the second filing window, the Wireline Competition Bureau may direct the Administrator to open additional filing windows until the funds are exhausted or the emergency period ends, whichever is earlier.
