
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart Q - Emergency Connectivity Fund
###### ยง 54.1717 Administrator of the Emergency Connectivity Fund.

(a) The Universal Service Administrative Company is appointed the permanent Administrator of the Emergency Connectivity Fund and shall be responsible for administering the Emergency Connectivity Fund.

(b) The Administrator shall be responsible for reviewing applications for funding, recommending funding commitments, issuing funding commitment decision letters, reviewing invoices and recommending payment of funds, as well as other administration-related duties.

(c) The Administrator may not make policy, interpret unclear provisions of statutes or rules, or interpret the intent of Congress. Where statutes or the Commission's rules in this subpart are unclear, or do not address a particular situation, the Administrator shall seek guidance from the Commission.

(d) The Administrator may advocate positions before the Commission and its staff only on administrative matters relating to the Emergency Connectivity Fund.

(e) The Administrator shall create and maintain a website, as defined in ยง 54.5, on which applications for services will be posted on behalf of schools and libraries.

(f) The Administrator shall provide the Commission full access to the data collected pursuant to the administration of the Emergency Connectivity Fund.

(g) The administrator shall provide performance measurements pertaining to the Emergency Connectivity Fund as requested by the Commission by order or otherwise.

(h) The Commission shall have the authority to audit all entities reporting data to the Administrator regarding the Emergency Connectivity Fund. When the Commission, the Administrator, or any independent auditor hired by the Commission or the Administrator, conducts audits of the participants of the Emergency Connectivity Fund, such audits shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.

(i) The Commission shall establish procedures to verify support amounts provided by the Emergency Connectivity Fund and may suspend or delay support amounts if a party fails to provide adequate verification of the support amounts provided upon reasonable request from the Administrator.

(j) The Administrator shall make available to whomever the Commission directs, free of charge, any and all intellectual property, including, but not limited to, all records and information generated by or resulting from its role in administering the support mechanisms, if its participation in administering the Emergency Connectivity Fund ends. If its participation in administering the Emergency Connectivity Fund ends, the Administrator shall be subject to close-out audits at the end of its term.
