
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart Q - Emergency Connectivity Fund
###### ยง 54.1718 Appeal and waiver requests.
####### Filing deadlines.

(b)(1) An affected party requesting review of a decision by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall file such a request within thirty (30) days from the date the Administrator issues a decision.

(2) An affected party requesting review by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section of a decision by the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall file such a request with the Commission within thirty (30) days from the date of the Administrator's decision. Further, any party seeking a waiver of the Commission's rules under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall file a request for such waiver within thirty (30) days from the date of the Administrator's initial decision, or, if an appeal is filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, within thirty days from the date of the Administrator's decision resolving such an appeal.

(3) In all cases of requests for review filed under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, the request for review shall be deemed filed on the postmark date. If the postmark date cannot be determined, the applicant must file a sworn affidavit stating the date that the request for review was mailed.

(4) Parties shall adhere to the time periods for filing oppositions and replies set forth in ยง 1.45 of this chapter.
