
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart Q - Emergency Connectivity Fund
###### § 54.1718 Appeal and waiver requests.
####### General filing requirements.

(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a request for review of an Administrator decision by the Federal Communications Commission shall be filed with the Federal Communications Commission's Office of the Secretary in accordance with the general requirements set forth in part 1 of this chapter. The request for review shall be captioned "In the Matter of Request for Review by (name of party seeking review) of Decision of Universal Service Administrator" and shall reference the applicable docket numbers.

(2) A request for review pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section shall contain:

(i) A statement setting forth the party's interest in the matter presented for review;

(ii) A full statement of relevant, material facts with supporting affidavits and documentation;

(iii) The question presented for review, with reference, where appropriate, to the relevant Federal Communications Commission rule, Commission order, or statutory provision; and

(iv) A statement of the relief sought and the relevant statutory or regulatory provision pursuant to which such relief is sought.

(3) A copy of a request for review that is submitted to the Federal Communications Commission shall be served on the Administrator consistent with the requirement for service of documents set forth in § 1.47 of this chapter.

(4) If a request for review filed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section alleges prohibitive conduct on the part of a third party, such request for review shall be served on the third party consistent with the requirement for service of documents set forth in § 1.47 of this chapter. The third party may file a response to the request for review. Any response filed by the third party shall adhere to the time period for filing replies set forth in § 1.45 of this chapter and the requirement for service of documents set forth in § 1.47 of this chapter.
