
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 54 - UNIVERSAL SERVICE
##### Subpart R - Affordable Connectivity Program
###### ยง 54.1801 Participating providers.
####### Suspension and removal procedures.

(iii)The following procedures apply to the suspension and removal of a participating provider:

(A) The Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau will commence a removal proceeding by providing to the participating provider a notice via electronic mail and/or U.S. mail setting forth the legal and factual bases for the initiation of the removal proceeding (as well as notice of any interim measures taken under paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section and reasons therefor) and informing the provider of its duty to respond within 30 days of the date of the notice.

(B) Concurrent with the issuance of such notice commencing the removal proceeding, or at any time before a final determination in the proceeding is rendered, the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau may, in light of the facts and circumstances set forth in the notice commencing the removal proceeding, and with notice to the provider of this interim measure, direct that the participating provider be removed from the Commission's list of providers, from the Administrator's Companies Near Me Tool, or from any similar records, and also may direct the Administrator to temporarily suspend the provider's ability to enroll or transfer in new subscribers during the pendency of the removal proceeding. Any such interim actions may be taken only {i} if based upon adequate evidence of willful misconduct that would warrant removal under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, and {ii} after determining that immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest. In addition, the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau may also direct, with notice to the provider, that an interim funding hold (or partial hold) be placed on the provider upon a determination that there is adequate evidence that the provider's misconduct is likely to cause or has already resulted in improper claims for Affordable Connectivity Program reimbursement and is necessary to protect the public interest. Any funding hold should be tailored in a manner that relates to and is proportionate to the alleged misconduct.

(C) The participating provider shall respond within 30 days of the date of the notice commencing the removal proceeding with any relevant evidence demonstrating that a rule violation or other conduct warranting removal has not in fact occurred and that the provider should not be removed from the Affordable Connectivity Program. Failure to respond or to provide evidence in a timely manner will result in a finding against the provider, removal from the program, and revocation of the provider's authorization to participate in the Affordable Connectivity Program.

(D) Within 30 days of receiving the response, the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau will make a determination and issue an order providing a detailed explanation for the determination. If the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau determines that a preponderance of the evidence fails to demonstrate that there has been conduct warranting removal, then any measures taken under paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section will be discontinued immediately. If the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or Enforcement Bureau determines by a preponderance of the evidence that there has been conduct warranting removal, the provider's authorization to participate in the Affordable Connectivity Program will be revoked, and the provider shall be immediately removed from the program. Upon removal from the program, the former participating provider shall be barred from seeking to rejoin, and from participating in, the Affordable Connectivity Program for at least five years, or such longer period as provided for in the order, based upon review of all relevant circumstances. Any such providers will be similarly barred from participation in any Affordable Connectivity Program successor program during the removal period determined under the order.
