
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 61 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart E - General Rules for Dominant Carriers
###### ยง 61.38 Supporting information to be submitted with letters of transmittal.
####### Explanation and data supporting either changes or new tariff offerings.

(b)The material to be submitted for a tariff change which affects rates or charges or for a tariff offering a new service, must include an explanation of the changed or new matter, the reasons for the filing, the basis of ratemaking employed, and economic information to support the changed or new matter.

(1) For a tariff change the issuing carrier must submit the following, including complete explanations of the bases for the estimates.

(i) A cost of service study for all elements for the most recent 12 month period;

(ii) A study containing a projection of costs for a representative 12 month period;

(iii) Estimates of the effect of the changed matter on the traffic and revenues from the service to which the changed matter applies, the issuing carrier's other service classifications, and the carrier's overall traffic and revenues. These estimates must include the projected effects on the traffic and revenues for the same representative 12 month period used in (b)(1)(ii) above.

(2) For a tariff filing offering a new service, the issuing carrier must submit the following, including complete explanations of the bases for the estimates.

(i) A study containing a projection of costs for a representative 12 month period; and

(ii) Estimates of the effect of the new matter on the traffic and revenues from the service to which the new matter applies, the issuing carrier's other service classifications, and the issuing carrier's overall traffic and revenues. These estimates must include the projected effects on the traffic and revenues for the same representative 12 month period used in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) [Reserved]
