
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 61 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart E - General Rules for Dominant Carriers
###### ยง 61.38 Supporting information to be submitted with letters of transmittal.
####### Form and content of additional material to be submitted with certain rate increases.

(d)In the circumstances set out in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, the issuing carrier must submit all additional cost, marketing and other data underlying the working papers to justify a proposed rate increase. The issuing carrier must submit this information in suitable form to serve as the carrier's direct case in the event the rate increase is set by the Commission for investigation.

(1) Rate increases affecting single services or tariffed items.

(i) A rate increase in any service or tariffed item which results in more than $1 million in additional annual revenues, calculated on the basis of existing quantities in service, without regard to the percentage increase in such revenues; or

(ii) A single rate increase in any service or tariffed item, or successive rate increases in the same service or tariffed item within a 12 month period, either of which results in:

(A) At least a 10 percent increase in annual revenues from that service or tariffed item, and

(B) At least $100,000 in additional annual revenues, both calculated on the basis of existing quantities in service.

(2) Rate increases affecting more than one service or tariffed item.

(i) A general rate increase in more than one service or tariffed item occurring at one time, which results in more than $1 million in additional revenues calculated on the basis of existing quantities in service, without regard to the percentage increase in such revenues; or

(ii) A general rate increase in more than one service or tariffed item occurring at one time, or successive general rate increases in the same services or tariffed items occurring within a 12 month period, either of which results in:

(A) At least a 10 percent increase in annual revenues from those services or tariffed items, and

(B) At least $100,000 in additional annual revenues, both calculated on the basis of existing quantities in service.
