
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 61 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart E - General Rules for Dominant Carriers
###### § 61.48 Transition rules for price cap formula calculations.
####### i.e.,

(B) For a price cap holding company's predominantly rural filing entities (filing entities with greater than 50% of lines operated by telephone companies that as of December 31, 1999 were certified to the Commission as rural telephone companies), the amount of the additional reductions to Average Traffic Sensitive Charge rates as defined in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.

(2) Allocation of Pooled Local Switching Revenue to Certain CMT Elements

(i) The pooled local switching revenue for each filing entity is shifted to the CMT basket within price caps. Pooled local switching revenue will not be included in calculations to determine the eligibility for interstate access universal service funding.

(ii) Pooled local switching revenue will be capped on a revenue per line basis.

(iii) Pooled local switching revenue is included in the total revenue for the CMT basket in calculating the X-factor reduction targeted to the traffic sensitive rate elements, and for companies qualified under paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section, to pooled elements after the Average Traffic Sensitive Charge reaches the target level. For the purpose of targeting X-factor reductions, companies that allocate pooled local switching revenue to other filing entities pursuant to paragraph (m)(2)(vii) of this section shall include pooled local switching revenue in the total revenue of the CMT basket of the filing entity from which the pooled local switching revenue originated.

(iv) Pooled local switching revenue shall be kept separate from CMT revenue in the CMT basket. CMT rate elements for each filing entity shall first be set based on CMT revenue per line without regard to the presence of pooled local switching revenue for each filing entity.

(v) If the rates generated without regard to the presence of pooled local switching revenue for multi-line business PICC and/or multi-line business SLC are below the nominal caps of $4.31 and $9.20, respectively, pooled amounts can be added to these rate elements to the extent permitted by the nominal caps.

(vi) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.152(k) of this chapter, pooled local switching revenue is first added to the multi-line business SLC until the rate equals the nominal cap ($9.20) or the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated. If pooled local switching revenue remains after applying amounts to the multi-line business SLC, notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.153 of this chapter, the remaining pooled local switching revenue may be added to the multi-line business PICC until the rate equals the nominal cap ($4.31) or the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated. Unallocated pooled local switching revenue may still remain. For companies pooling pursuant to paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section, these unallocated amounts may not be recovered from the CCL charge, the primary residential and single-line business SLC, a non-primary residential SLC, or from CMT elements in any other filing entity.

(vii) For companies pooling pursuant to paragraph (m)(1)(ii) of this section, pooled local switching revenue that can not be allocated to the multi-line business PICC and multi-line business SLC rates within an individual filing entity may not be recovered from the CCL charge, primary residential and single-line business SLC or residential/single-line business SLC charges, but may be allocated to other filing entities within the holding company, and collected by adding these amounts to the multi-line business PICC and multi-line business SLC rates. The allocation of pooled local switching revenue among filing entities will be re-calculated at each annual filing. In subsequent annual filings, pooled local switching revenue that was allocated to another filing entity will be reallocated to the filing entity from where it originated, to the full extent permitted by the nominal caps of $9.20 and $4.31.

(viii) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.152(k) of this chapter, these unallocated local switching revenues that cannot be recovered fully pursuant to paragraph (m)(2)(vii) of this section are first added to the multi-line business SLC of other filing entities until the resulting rate equals the nominal cap ($9.20) or the pooled local switching revenue for the holding company is fully allocated. If the pooled local switching revenue can be fully allocated to the multi-line business SLC, the amount is distributed to each filing entity with a rate below the nominal cap ($9.20) based on its below-cap multi-line business SLC revenue as a percentage of the total holding company's below-cap multi-line business SLC revenue.

(ix) If pooled local switching revenue remains after applying amounts to the multi-line business SLC of all filing entities in the holding company, pooled local switching revenue may be added to the multi-line business PICC of other filing entities. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.153 of this chapter, the remaining pooled local switching revenue is distributed to each filing entity with a rate below the nominal cap ($4.31) based on its below-cap multi-line business PICC revenue as a percentage of the total holding company's below-cap multi-line business PICC revenue.

(x) If pooled local switching revenue is added to the multi-line business SLC but not to the multi-line business PICC for a filing entity that qualified to deaverage SLCs without regard to pooled local switching revenue, the resulting SLC rates can still be deaveraged. Total pooled local switching revenue is added to the deaveraged zone 1 multi-line business SLC rate until the per line rate in zone 1 equals the rate in zone 2 or until the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated to the deaveraged multi-line business SLC rate for zone 1. If pooled local switching revenue remains after the rate in zone 1 equals zone 2, the deaveraged rates of zone 1 and zone 2 are increased until the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated to the deaveraged multi-line business SLC rates of zone 1 and 2 or until those rates reach the zone 3 multi-line business SLC rate level. This process continues until pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated to the zone deaveraged rates.

(n) Establishment of the special access basket, effective July 1, 2000.

(1) On the effective date, the PCI value for the special access basket, as defined in § 61.42(d)(5) shall be equal to the PCI for the trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket.

(2) On the effective date, the API value for the special access basket, as defined in § 61.42(d)(5) shall be equal to the API for the trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket.

(3) Service Category, Subcategory, and Density Zone SBIs and Upper Limits.

(i) Interconnection, Tandem Switched Transport, and Signalling Interconnec- tion will retain the SBIs and upper limits and remain in the trunking basket.

(ii) Audio/Video and Wideband will retain the SBIs and upper limits and be moved into the special access basket.

(iii) For Voice Grade, the SBIs and upper limits in both baskets will be equal to the SBIs and upper limits in the existing trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket. Voice Grade density zones in the trunking basket will retain their indices and upper limits. Voice Grade density zones will be initialized in the special access basket when services are first offered in them.

(iv) For High Cap/DDS, DS1, and DS3 category and subcategories, the SBIs and upper limits in both baskets will be equal to the SBIs and upper limits in the existing trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket. SBIs and upper limits for services that are in both combined density zones and either DTT/EF or special access density zones will be calculated by using weighted averages of the indices in the affected zones.

(v) For each DTT/EF-related zone remaining in the trunking basket, the values will be calculated by taking the sum of the products of the DTT/EF revenues times the DTT/EF index (or upper limit) and the DTT/EF-related revenues in the combined zone times the combined index (or upper limit), and dividing by the total DTT/EF-related revenues for that zone.

(vi) For each special access-related zone in the special access basket, the values will be calculated by taking the sum of the products of the special access revenues times the special access index (or upper limit) and the special access-related revenues in the combined zone times the combined index (or upper limit), and dividing by the total special access-related revenues for that zone.

(o) Treatment of acquisitions of exchanges with different ATS Target Rates as set forth in § 61.3(qq):

(1) In the event that a price cap local exchange carrier acquires a filing entity or portion thereof from a price cap local exchange carrier after July 1, 2000, and the price cap local exchange carrier did not have a binding and executed contract to purchase that filing entity or portion thereof as of April 1, 2000, those properties retain their pre-existing Target Rates as set forth in § 61.3(qq). If those properties are merged into a filing entity with a different Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq), the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq) for the merged filing entity will be the weighted average of the Target Rates as set forth in § 61.3(qq) for the properties being combined into a single filing entity, with the average weighted by local switching minutes. When a property acquired as a result of a contract for purchase executed after April 1, 2000 is merged with $0.0095 Target Rate properties, the obligation to apply price cap reductions to reduce CCL, pursuant to § 61.45(b)(iii) does not apply to the properties purchased under contracts executed after April 1, 2000, but continues to apply to the other properties.

(2) For sale of properties for which a holding company was, as of April 1, 2000, under a binding and executed contract to purchase but which close after June 30, 2000, but during tariff year 2000, and that are subject to the $0.0095 Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq), the Average Traffic Sensitive Rate charged by the purchaser for that property will be the greater of $0.0095 or the Average Traffic Sensitive Rate for that property.
