
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Wireless Radio Services Applications and Proceedings
###### Application Requirements and Procedures
####### ยง 1.946 Construction and coverage requirements.
######## Requests for extension of time.

(e)Licensees may request to extend a construction period or coverage period by filing FCC Form 601. The request must be filed before the expiration of the construction or coverage period.

(1) An extension request may be granted if the licensee shows that failure to meet the construction or coverage deadline is due to involuntary loss of site or other causes beyond its control.

(2) Extension requests will not be granted for failure to meet a construction or coverage deadline due to delays caused by a failure to obtain financing, to obtain an antenna site, or to order equipment in a timely manner. If the licensee orders equipment within 90 days of its initial license grant, a presumption of diligence is established.

(3) Extension requests will not be granted for failure to meet a construction or coverage deadline because the licensee undergoes a transfer of control or because the licensee intends to assign the authorization. The Commission will not grant extension requests solely to allow a transferee or assignee to complete facilities that the transferor or assignor failed to construct.

(4) The filing of an extension request does not automatically extend the construction or coverage period unless the request is based on involuntary loss of site or other circumstances beyond the licensee's control, in which case the construction period is automatically extended pending disposition of the extension request.

(5) A request for extension of time to construct a particular transmitter or other facility does not extend the construction period for other transmitters and facilities under the same authorization.
