
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 61 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart F - Formatting and Notice Requirements for Tariff Publications
###### ยง 61.54 Composition of tariffs.
####### Revised title page.

(5)When a revised title page is issued, the following notation must be shown in connection with its effective date:

(c)(1)(i) The page immediately following the title page must be designated as "Original page 1" and captioned "Check Sheet." When the original tariff is filed, the check sheet must show the number of pages contained in the tariff. For example, "Page 1 to 150, inclusive, of this tariff are effective as of the date shown." When new pages are added, they must be numbered in continuing sequence, and designated as "Original page ____ ." For example, when the original tariff filed has 150 pages, the first page added after page 150 is to be designated as "Original page 151," and the foregoing notation must be revised to include the added pages.

(ii) Alternatively, the carrier is permitted to number its tariff pages, other than the check sheet, to reflect the section number of the tariff as well as the page. For example, under this system, pages in section 1 of the tariff would be numbered 1-1, 1-2, etc., and pages in section 2 of the tariff would be numbered 2-1, 2-2, etc. Issuing carriers shall utilize only one page numbering system throughout its tariff.

(2) If pages are to be inserted between numbered pages, each such page must be designated as an original page and must bear the number of the immediately preceding page followed by an alpha or numeric suffix. For example, when two new pages are to be inserted between pages 44 and 45 of the tariff, the first inserted page must be designated as Original page 44A or 44.1 and the second inserted page as Original page 44B or 44.2. Issuing carriers may not utilize both the alpha and numeric systems in the same publication.

(3)(i) When pages are revised, when new pages (including pages with letter or numeric suffix as set forth above) are added to the tariff, or when supplements are issued, the check sheet must be revised accordingly. Revised check sheets must indicate with an asterisk the specific pages added or revised. In addition to the notation in (1), the check sheet must list, under the heading "The original and revised pages named below (and Supplement No. ____) contain all changes from the original tariff that are in effect on the date shown," all original pages in numerical order that have been added to the tariff and the pages which have been revised, including the revision number. For example:

(ii) On each page, the carrier shall indicate the transmittal number under which that page was submitted.

(4) Changes in, and additions to tariffs must be made by reprinting the page upon which a change or addition is made. Such changed page is to be designated as a revised page, cancelling the page which it amends. For example, "First revised page 1 cancels original page 1," or "Second revised page 2 cancels first revised page 2," etc. When a revised page omits rates or regulations previously published on the page which it cancels, but such rates or regulations are published on another page, the revised page must make specific reference to the page on which the rates or regulations will be found. This reference must be accomplished by inserting a sentence at the bottom of the revised page that states "Certain rates (or regulations) previously found on this page can now be found on page ___." In addition, the page on which the omitted material now appears must bear the appropriate symbol opposite such material, and make specific reference to the page from which the rates or regulations were transferred. This reference must be accomplished by inserting a sentence at the bottom of the other page that states "Certain rates (or regulations) on this page formerly appeared on page ____."

(5) Rejected pages must be treated as indicated in ยง 61.69.
