
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 61 - TARIFFS
##### Subpart F - Formatting and Notice Requirements for Tariff Publications
###### ยง 61.58 Notice requirements.
####### Non-price cap local exchange carriers and/or services.

(e)(1) Tariff filings in the instances specified in paragraphs (e)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section by dominant carriers must be made on at least 15 days' notice.

(i) Tariffs filed in the first instance by new carriers.

(ii) Tariffs filings involving new rates and regulations not previously filed at, from, to or via points on new lines; at, from to or via new radio facilities; or for new points of radio communication.

(iii) Tariff filings involving a change in the name of a carrier, a change in Vertical or Horizontal coordinates (or other means used to determine airline mileages), a change in the lists of mileages, a change in the lists of connecting, concurring or other participating carriers, text changes, or the imposition of termination charges calculated from effective tariff provisions. The imposition of termination charges does not include the initial filing of termination liability provisions.

(2) Tariff filings involving a change in rate structure, a new offering, or a rate increase must be made on at least 45 days' notice.

(3) Alascom, Inc. shall file its annual tariff revisions for its Common Carrier Services (Alascom Tariff F.C.C No. 11) on at least 35 days' notice.

(4) All tariff filings not specifically assigned a different period of public notice in this part must be made on at least 35 days' notice.

(f) All tariff filings of domestic and international non-dominant carriers must be made on at least one days' notice.
