
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 63 - EXTENSION OF LINES, NEW LINES, AND DISCONTINUANCE, REDUCTION, OUTAGE AND IMPAIRMENT OF SERVICE BY COMMON CARRIERS; AND GRANTS OF RECOGNIZED PRIVATE OPERATING AGENCY STATUS
##### Extensions and Supplements
###### ยง 63.03 Streamlining procedures for domestic transfer of control applications.
####### Removal of application from streamlined processing.

(c)(1) At any time after an application is filed, the Commission, acting through the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau, may notify an applicant that its application is being removed from streamlined processing, or will not be subject to streamlined processing. Examples of appropriate circumstances for such action are:

(i) An application is associated with a non-routine request for waiver of the Commission's rules;

(ii) An application would, on its face, violate a Commission rule or the Communications Act;

(iii) An applicant fails to respond promptly to Commission inquiries;

(iv) Timely-filed comments on the application raise public interest concerns that require further Commission review; or

(v) The Commission, acting through the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau, otherwise determines that the application requires further analysis to determine whether a proposed transfer of control would serve the public interest.

(2) Notification will be by public notice that states the reason for removal or non-streamlined treatment, and indicates the expected timeframe for Commission action on the application. Except in extraordinary circumstances, final action on the application should be expected no later than 180 days from public notice that the application has been accepted for filing.

(d) Pro forma transactions. (1) Any party that would be a domestic common carrier under section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is authorized to undertake any corporate restructuring, reorganization or liquidation of internal business operations that does not result in a change in ultimate ownership or control of the carrier's lines or authorization to operate, including transfers in bankruptcy proceedings to a trustee or to the carrier itself as a debtor-in-possession.Under this rule, a transfer of control of a domestic line or authorization to operate is considered pro forma when, together with all previous internal corporate restructurings, the transaction does not result in a change in the carrier's ultimate ownership or control, or otherwise falls into one of the illustrative categories found in ยง 63.24 of this part governing transfers of control of international carriers under section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(2) Any party that would be a domestic common carrier under section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, must notify the Commission no later than 30 days after control of the carrier is transferred to a trustee under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, a debtor-in-possession under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, or any other party pursuant to any applicable chapter of the Bankruptcy Code when that transfer does not result in a change in ultimate ownership or control of the carrier's lines or authorization to operate. The notification can be in the form of a letter (in duplicate to the Secretary). The letter or other form of notification must also contain the information listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) in ยง 63.04. A single letter may be filed for more than one such transfer of control. If a carrier files a discontinuance request within 30 days of the transfer in bankruptcy, the Commission will treat the discontinuance request as sufficient to fulfill the pro forma post-transaction notice requirement.

(3) Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, any party that would be a domestic common carrier under section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including a carrier that begins providing service through a differently named subsidiary after an internal corporate restructuring, remains subject to all applicable conditions of service after an internal restructuring, such as rules governing slamming and tariffing.
