
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 63 - EXTENSION OF LINES, NEW LINES, AND DISCONTINUANCE, REDUCTION, OUTAGE AND IMPAIRMENT OF SERVICE BY COMMON CARRIERS; AND GRANTS OF RECOGNIZED PRIVATE OPERATING AGENCY STATUS
##### Extensions and Supplements
###### § 63.11 Notification by and prior approval for U.S. international carriers that are or propose to become affiliated with a foreign carrier.
####### Interlocking directorates.

(7)The name of any interlocking directorates, as defined in § 63.09(g), with each foreign carrier named in the notification. See § 63.09(g).

(8) With respect to each foreign carrier named in the notification, a statement as to whether the notification is subject to paragraph (a) or (c) of this section. In the case of a notification subject to paragraph (a) of this section, the authorized carrier shall include the projected date of closing. In the case of a notification subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the authorized carrier shall include the actual date of closing.

(9) If an authorized carrier relies on an exception in paragraph (b) of this section, then a certification as to which exception the foreign carrier satisfies and a citation to any adjudication upon which the carrier is relying. Authorized carriers relying upon the exceptions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must make the required certified demonstration in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section or the certified commitment to comply with dominant carrier safeguards in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in the notification required by paragraph (c) of this section.

(f) In order to retain non-dominant status on each newly affiliated route, the authorized carrier should demonstrate that it qualifies for non-dominant classification pursuant to § 63.10. See § 63.10.
