
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 63 - EXTENSION OF LINES, NEW LINES, AND DISCONTINUANCE, REDUCTION, OUTAGE AND IMPAIRMENT OF SERVICE BY COMMON CARRIERS; AND GRANTS OF RECOGNIZED PRIVATE OPERATING AGENCY STATUS
##### Extensions and Supplements
###### § 63.22 Facilities-based international common carriers.
####### See International Settlements Policy Reform,

(f) The terms and conditions of any operating or other agreement relating to the exchange of services, interchange or routing of traffic and matters concerning rates, accounting rates, division of tolls, the allocation of return traffic, or the basis of settlement of traffic balances, entered into by U.S. common carriers authorized pursuant to this part to provide facilities-based switched voice service on the U.S.-Cuba route in correspondence with a Cuban carrier that does not qualify for the presumption that it lacks market power in Cuba, shall be identical to the equivalent terms and conditions in the operating agreement of another carrier providing the same or similar service between the United States and Cuba. Carriers may seek waiver of this requirement.Report and Order, IB Docket Nos. 11-80, 05-254, 09-10, RM 11322, FCC 12-145 (rel. November 29, 2012).

(g) A carrier or other party may request Commission intervention on any U.S. international route for which competitive problems are alleged by filing with the Office of International Affairs a petition, pursuant to this section, demonstrating anticompetitive behavior by foreign carriers that is harmful to U.S. customers. The Commission may also act on its own motion. Carriers and other parties filing complaints must support their petitions with evidence, including an affidavit and relevant commercial agreements. The Office of International Affairs will review complaints on a case-by-case basis and take appropriate action on delegated authority pursuant to § 0.261 of this chapter. Interested parties will have 10 days from the date of issuance of a public notice of the petition to file comments or oppositions to such petitions and subsequently 7 days for replies. In the event significant, immediate harm to the public interest is likely to occur that cannot be addressed through post facto remedies, the Office of International Affairs may impose temporary requirements on carriers authorized pursuant to § 63.18 without prejudice to its findings on such petitions.

(h) A carrier shall file with the Commission a list of U.S.-international routes for which it has an arrangement with a foreign carrier for direct termination in the foreign destination. The carrier shall notify the Commission within 30 days after it adds a termination arrangement for a new foreign destination or discontinues arrangements with a previously listed destination. The list shall be filed electronically in accordance with instructions from the Office of International Affairs.

(i) The authority granted under this part is subject to all Commission rules and regulations and any conditions or limitations stated in the Commission's public notice or order that serves as the carrier's Section 214 certificate. See §§ 63.12, 63.21 of this part.
