
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 63 - EXTENSION OF LINES, NEW LINES, AND DISCONTINUANCE, REDUCTION, OUTAGE AND IMPAIRMENT OF SERVICE BY COMMON CARRIERS; AND GRANTS OF RECOGNIZED PRIVATE OPERATING AGENCY STATUS
##### Extensions and Supplements
###### ยง 63.24 Assignments and transfers of control.
####### Applications for substantial transactions.

(e)(1) In the case of an assignment or transfer of control shall of an international section 214 authorization that is not pro forma, the proposed assignee or transferee must apply to the Commission for authority prior to consummation of the proposed assignment or transfer of control.

(2) The application shall include the information requested in paragraphs (a) through (d) of ยง 63.18 for both the transferor/assignor and the transferee/assignee. The information requested in paragraphs (h) through (p) of ยง 63.18 is required only for the transferee/assignee. At the beginning of the application, the applicant shall include a narrative of the means by which the proposed transfer or assignment will take place.

(3) The Commission reserves the right to request additional information as to the particulars of the transaction to aid it in making its public interest determination.

(4) An assignee or transferee must notify the Commission no later than thirty (30) days after either consummation of the proposed assignment or transfer of control, or a decision not to consummate the proposed assignment or transfer of control. The notification shall identify the file numbers under which the initial authorization and the authorization of the assignment or transfer of control were granted.
