
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart F - Telecommunications Relay Services and Related Customer Premises Equipment for Persons With Disabilities
###### ยง 64.611 Internet-based TRS registration.
####### Registration of Emergency Shelter Devices.

(iii)An IP CTS provider may seek and receive TRS Fund compensation for the provision of captioning service to users of a temporary, public IP CTS device set up in an emergency shelter, provided that, before commencing service to such a device, the IP CTS provider collects, maintains in its registration records, and submits to the TRS User Registration Database all information reasonably requested by the administrator, including the telephone number and location of the device. IP CTS providers shall remove the device's registration information from the Database when service for such a device is terminated.

(iv) By the date of initiation of service to an IP CTS user or device, or one year after notice from the Commission that the TRS User Registration Database is ready to accept such information, whichever is later, IP CTS providers shall submit to the TRS User Registration Database the registration information required by paragraph (j)(2)(i) or (iii) of this section. Calls from or to registered IP CTS users or devices whose registration information has not been populated in the TRS User Registration Database by the applicable date shall not be compensable, and an IP CTS provider shall not seek TRS Fund compensation for such calls.

(v) IP CTS providers may provide service to new users for up to two weeks after the user's registration information has been submitted to the TRS User Registration Database pending verification of the user's identity. After a user's identity is verified by the Database administrator, IP CTS providers may seek TRS Fund compensation for calls handled during such pre-verification period.

(vi) When registering a user who is transferring service from another IP CTS provider, IP CTS providers shall obtain and submit a digital copy of a user's self-certification of eligibility if a query of the TRS User Registration Database shows a properly executed certification has not been filed.

(3) An IP CTS provider shall not seek TRS Fund compensation for providing captioning service to any individual or device if the registration information for such individual or device has been removed from the TRS User Registration Database, or if the provider obtains information that the individual or device isnot eligible to receive IP CTS.
