
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart F - Telecommunications Relay Services and Related Customer Premises Equipment for Persons With Disabilities
###### ยง 64.615 TRS User Registration Database and administrator.
####### User verification.

(6)(i) The TRS User Registration Database shall have the capability of performing an identification verification check when a VRS provider, IP CTS provider, or other party submits a query to the database about an existing or potential user or an enterprise or public videophone.

(ii) VRS and IP CTS providers shall not register individuals or enterprise or public videophones that do not pass the identification verification check conducted through the TRS User Registration Database.

(iii) VRS providers shall not seek compensation for calls placed by individuals or for calls placed to or from enterprise or public videophones that do not pass the identification verification check conducted through the TRS User Registration Database.

(iv) IP CTS providers shall not seek compensation for calls placed to or from individuals that do not pass the identification verification check conducted through the TRS User Registration Database.

(v) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(6)(ii) through (iv) of this section, VRS and IP CTS providers may provide service to a new or porting user for up to two weeks after the user's registration information has been submitted to the TRS User Registration Database, pending verification of the user's identity. After such user's identity is verified by the Database administrator, a TRS provider may seek TRS Fund compensation for calls handled during such pre-verification period.

(vi) If a VRS provider submits registration information for a TRS telephone number that is being ported from another VRS provider, and user's identity cannot be immediately verified, then the porting-in provider's routing information for that telephone number shall be provisionally entered in the TRS Numbering Directory for up to two weeks to allow the routing of calls to the porting-in VRS provider pursuant to paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this section. If the user's identity is not verified by the TRS User Registration Database administrator within the allowed two-week period, the porting-out provider's routing information shall be re-entered in the TRS Number Directory.
