
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart G - Furnishing of Enhanced Services and Customer-Premises Equipment by Bell Operating Companies; Telephone Operator Services
###### § 64.709 Informational tariffs.
####### i.e.,

(c) In order to remove all doubt as to their proper application, all informational tariffs must contain clear and explicit explanatory statements regarding the rates,the tariffed price per unit of service, and the regulations governing the offering of service in that tariff.

(d) Informational tariffs shall be accompanied by a cover letter, addressed to the Secretary of the Commission, explaining the purpose of the filing.

(1) The original of the cover letter shall be submitted to the Secretary without attachments, along with FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee to the address set forth in § 1.1105 of this chapter.

(2) Carriers should file informational tariffs and associated documents, such as cover letters and attachments, electronically in accordance with §§ 61.13 and 61.14 of this chapter.

(e) Any changes to the tariff shall be submitted under a new cover letter with a complete copy of the tariff, including changes.

(1) Changes to a tariff shall be explained in the cover letter but need not be symbolized on the tariff pages.

(2) Revised tariffs shall be filled pursuant to the procedures specified in this section.
