
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart P - Calling Party Telephone Number; Privacy
###### ยง 64.1601 Delivery requirements and privacy restrictions.
####### Delivery.

(a)Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section:

(1) Telecommunications carriers and providers of interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services, in originating interstate or intrastate traffic on the public switched telephone network (PSTN) or originating interstate or intrastate traffic that is destined for the PSTN (collectively "PSTN Traffic"), are required to transmit for all PSTN Traffic the telephone number received from or assigned to or otherwise associated with the calling party to the next provider in the path from the originating provider to the terminating provider. This provision applies regardless of the voice call signaling and transmission technology used by the carrier or VoIP provider. Entities subject to this provision that use Signaling System 7 (SS7) are required to transmit the calling party number (CPN) associated with all PSTN Traffic in the SS7 ISUP (ISDN User Part) CPN field to interconnecting providers, and are required to transmit the calling party's charge number (CN) in the SS7 ISUP CN field to interconnecting providers for any PSTN Traffic where CN differs from CPN. Entities subject to this provision who use multi-frequency (MF) signaling are required to transmit CPN, or CN if it differs from CPN, associated with all PSTN Traffic in the MF signaling automatic numbering information (ANI) field.

(2) Intermediate providers within an interstate or intrastate call path that originates and/or terminates on the PSTN must pass unaltered to subsequent providers in the call path signaling information identifying the telephone number, or billing number, if different, of the calling party that is received with a call. This requirement applies to SS7 information including but not limited to CPN and CN, and also applies to MF signaling information or other signaling information intermediate providers receive with a call. This requirement also applies to VoIP signaling messages, such as calling party and charge information identifiers contained in Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) header fields, and to equivalent identifying information as used in other VoIP signaling technologies, regardless of the voice call signaling and transmission technology used by the carrier or VoIP provider.
