
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart P - Calling Party Telephone Number; Privacy
###### ยง 64.1601 Delivery requirements and privacy restrictions.
####### Exemptions.

(d)Section 64.1601(a) and (b) shall not apply when:

(1) A call originates from a payphone.

(2) A local exchange carrier with Signaling System 7 capability does not have the software to provide *67 or *82 functionalities. Such carriers are prohibited from passing CPN.

(3) A Private Branch Exchange or Centrex system does not pass end user CPN. Centrex systems that rely on *6 or *8 for a function other than CPN blocking or unblocking, respectively, are also exempt if they employ alternative means of blocking or unblocking.

(4) CPN delivery-

(i) Is used solely in connection with calls within the same limited system, including (but not limited to) a Centrex system, virtual private network, or Private Branch Exchange;

(ii) Is used on a public agency's emergency telephone line or in conjunction with 911 emergency services, on a telephone line to contact non-public emergency services licensed by the state or municipality, or on any entity's emergency assistance poison control telephone line; or

(iii) Is provided in connection with legally authorized call tracing or trapping procedures specifically requested by a law enforcement agency.

(e) Any person or entity that engages in telemarketing, as defined in section 64.1200(f)(10) must transmit caller identification information.

(1) For purposes of this paragraph, caller identification information must include either CPN or ANI, and, when available by the telemarketer's carrier, the name of the telemarketer. It shall not be a violation of this paragraph to substitute (for the name and phone number used in, or billed for, making the call) the name of the seller on behalf of which the telemarketing call is placed and the seller's customer service telephone number. The telephone number so provided must permit any individual to make a do-not-call request during regular business hours.

(2) Any person or entity that engages in telemarketing is prohibited from blocking the transmission of caller identification information.

(3) Tax-exempt nonprofit organizations are not required to comply with this paragraph.

(f) Paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply when CPN delivery is made in connection with a threatening call. Upon report of such a threatening call by law enforcement on behalf of the threatened party, the carrier will provide any CPN of the calling party to law enforcement and, as directed by law enforcement, to security personnel for the called party for the purpose of identifying the party responsible for the threatening call.

(g) For law enforcement or security personnel of the called party investigating the threat:

(1) The CPN on incoming restricted calls may not be passed on to the line called;

(2) Any system used to record CPN must be operated in a secure way, limiting access to designated telecommunications and security personnel, as directed by law enforcement;

(3) Telecommunications and security personnel, as directed by law enforcement, may access restricted CPN data only when investigating phone calls of a threatening and serious nature, and shall document that access as part of the investigative report;

(4) Carriers transmitting restricted CPN information must take reasonable measures to ensure security of such communications;

(5) CPN information must be destroyed in a secure manner after a reasonable retention period; and

(6) Any violation of these conditions must be reported promptly to the Commission.
