
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment
###### ยง 1.1112 Form of payment.
####### i.e.,

(a) Annual and multiple year regulatory fees must be paid electronically as described in paragraph (e) of this section. Fee payments, other than annual and multiple year regulatory fee payments, should be in the form of a check, cashier's check, or money order denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on a United States financial institution and made payable to the Federal Communications Commission or by a Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card. No other credit card is acceptable. Fees for applications and other filings paid by credit card will not be accepted unless the credit card section of FCC Form 159 is completed in full. The Commission discourages applicants from submitting cash and will not be responsible for cash sent through the mail. Personal or corporate checks dated more than six months prior to their submission to the Commission's lockbox bank and postdated checks will not be accepted and will be returned as deficient. Third party checks (checks with a third party as maker or endorser) will not be accepted.

(1) Although payments (other than annual and multiple year regulatory fee payments) may be submitted in the form of a check, cashier's check, or money order, payors of these fees are encouraged to submit these payments electronically under the procedures described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Specific procedures for electronic payments are announced in Bureau/Office fee filing guides.

(3) It is the responsibility of the payer to insure that any electronic payment is made in the manner required by the Commission. Failure to comply with the Commission's procedures will result in the return of the application or other filing.

(4) To insure proper credit, applicants making wire transfer payments must follow the instructions set out in the appropriate Bureau Office fee filing guide.

(b) Applicants are required to submit one payment instrument (check, cashier's check, or money order) and FCC Form 159 with each application or filing; multiple payment instruments for a single application or filing are not permitted. A separate Fee Form (FCC Form 159) will not be required once the information requirements of that form (the Fee Code, fee amount, and total fee remitted) are incorporated into the underlying application form.

(c) The Commission may accept multiple money orders in payment of a fee for a single application where the fee exceeds the maximum amount for a money order established by the issuing agency and the use of multiple money orders is the only practical method available for fee payment.

(d) The Commission may require payment of fees with a cashier's check upon notification to an applicant or filer or prospective group of applicants under the conditions set forth below in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Payment by cashier's check may be required when a person or organization has made payment, on one or more occasions with a payment instrument on which the Commission does not receive final payment and such failure is not excused by bank error.

(2) The Commission will notify the party in writing that future payments must be made by cashier's check until further notice. If, subsequent to such notice, payment is not made by cashier's check, the party's payment will not be accepted and its application or other filing will be returned.

(e) Annual and multiple year regulatory fee payments shall be submitted by online ACH payment, online Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card payment, or wire transfer payment denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on a United States financial institution and made payable to the Federal Communications Commission. No other credit card is acceptable. Any other form of payment for regulatory fees (e.g., paper checks) will be rejected and sent back to the payor.

(f) All fees collected will be paid into the general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with Pub. L. 99-272.

(g) The Commission will furnish a stamped receipt of an application filed by mail or in person only upon request that complies with the following instructions. In order to obtain a stamped receipt for an application (or other filing), the application package must include a copy of the first page of the application, clearly marked "copy", submitted expressly for the purpose of serving as a receipt of the filing. The copy should be the top document in the package. If hand delivered, the copy will be date-stamped immediately and provided to the bearer of the submission. For submissions by mail, the receipt copy will be provided through return mail if the filer has attached to the receipt copy a stamped self-addressed envelope of sufficient size to contain the date stamped copy of the application. No remittance receipt copies will be furnished. Stamped receipts of electronically-filed applications will not be provided.
