
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment
###### § 1.1113 Filing locations.

(a) Except as noted in this section, applications and other filings, with attached fees and FCC Form 159, must be submitted to the locations and addresses set forth in §§ 1.1102 through 1.1109.

(1) Tariff filings shall be filed with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. On the same day, the filer should submit a copy of the cover letter, the FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee in accordance with the procedures established in § 1.1105.

(2) Bills for collection will be paid at the Commission's lockbox bank at the address of the appropriate service as established in §§ 1.1102 through 1.1109, as set forth on the bill sent by the Commission. Payments must be accompanied by the bill sent by the Commission. Payments must be accompanied by the bill to ensure proper credit. Electronic payments must include the reference number contained on the bill sent by the Commission.

(3) Petitions for reconsideration or applications for review of fee decisions pursuant to § 1.1119(b) of this subpart must be accompanied by the required fee for the application or other filing being considered or reviewed.

(4) Applicants claiming an exemption from a fee requirement for an application or other filing under 47 U.S.C. 158(d)(1) or § 1.1116 of this subpart shall file their applications in the appropriate location as set forth in the rules for the service for which they are applying, except that request for waiver accompanied by a tentative fee payment should be filed as set forth in §§ 1.1102 through 1.1109.

(b) Except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, all materials must be submitted as one package. The Commission will not take responsibility for matching fees, forms and applications submitted at different times or locations. Materials submitted at other than the location and address required by § 0.401(b) and paragraph (a) of this section will be returned to the applicant or filer.
