
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart U - Customer Proprietary Network Information
###### ยง 64.2008 Notice required for use of customer proprietary network information.
####### Notice requirements specific to opt-out.

(d)A telecommunications carrier must provide notification to obtain opt out approval through electronic or written methods, but not by oral communication (except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section). The contents of any such notification must comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Carriers must wait a 30-day minimum period of time after giving customers notice and an opportunity to opt-out before assuming customer approval to use, disclose, or permit access to CPNI. A carrier may, in its discretion, provide for a longer period. Carriers must notify customers as to the applicable waiting period for a response before approval is assumed.

(i) In the case of an electronic form of notification, the waiting period shall begin to run from the date on which the notification was sent; and

(ii) In the case of notification by mail, the waiting period shall begin to run on the third day following the date that the notification was mailed.

(2) Carriers using the opt-out mechanism must provide notices to their customers every two years.

(3) Telecommunications carriers that use email to provide opt-out notices must comply with the following requirements in addition to the requirements generally applicable to notification:

(i) Carriers must obtain express, verifiable, prior approval from consumers to send notices via email regarding their service in general, or CPNI in particular;

(ii) Carriers must allow customers to reply directly to emails containing CPNI notices in order to opt-out;

(iii) Opt-out email notices that are returned to the carrier as undeliverable must be sent to the customer in another form before carriers may consider the customer to have received notice;

(iv) Carriers that use email to send CPNI notices must ensure that the subject line of the message clearly and accurately identifies the subject matter of the email; and

(v) Telecommunications carriers must make available to every customer a method to opt-out that is of no additional cost to the customer and that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Carriers may satisfy this requirement through a combination of methods, so long as all customers have the ability to opt-out at no cost and are able to effectuate that choice whenever they choose.
