
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart V - Rural Call Completion
###### ยง 64.2107 Reduced recording and retention requirements for qualifying providers under the Safe Harbor.

(a)(1) A covered provider may reduce its recording and retention requirements under ยง 64.2103 if it files one of the following certifications, signed by an officer or director of the covered provider regarding the accuracy and completeness of the information provided, in WC Docket No. 13-39.

I ___ (name), ___ (title), an officer of ___ (entity), certify that___ (entity) uses no intermediate providers;

or

I ___ (name), ___ (title), an officer of ___ (entity), certify that___ (entity) restricts by contract any intermediate provider to which a call is directed by ___ (entity) from permitting more than one additional intermediate provider in the call path before the call reaches the terminating provider or terminating tandem. I certify that any nondisclosure agreement with an intermediate provider permits ___ (entity) to reveal the identity of the intermediate provider and any additional intermediate provider to the Commission and to the rural incumbent local exchange carrier(s) whose incoming long-distance calls are affected by the intermediate provider's performance. I certify that ___ (entity) has a process in place to monitor the performance of its intermediate providers.

(2) Covered providers that file the second certification must describe the process they have in place to monitor the performance of their intermediate providers.

(b) A covered provider that meets the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section must comply with the data retention requirements in ยง 64.2103 for a period that includes only the three most recent complete calendar months, so long as it continues to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. A covered provider that ceases to meet the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this must immediately begin retaining data for six months, as required by ยง 64.2103.

(c) Affiliated covered providers may meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section individually or in the aggregate.

(d) The provisions of this section shall expire on September 15, 2020.
