
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart B - Delegations of Authority
###### Administrative Law Judges
####### § 0.351 Authority delegated.

(a) The Chief, Office of International Affairs, is hereby delegated the authority to perform the functions and activities described in § 0.19, including without limitation the following:

(1) To assume the principal representational role on behalf of the Commission in international conferences, meetings, and negotiations, and direct Commission preparation for such conferences, meetings, and negotiations with other Bureaus and Offices, as appropriate.

(2) To administer Commission participation in the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Fellowship telecommunication training program for foreign officials offered through the U.S. Telecommunications Training Institute.

(3) In consultation with the affected Bureaus and Offices, to recommend revision of Commission rules and procedures as appropriate to conform to the outcomes of international conferences, agreements, or treaties.

(4) To recommend rulemakings, studies, and analyses (legal, engineering, social, and economic) of various petitions for policy or rule changes submitted by industry or the public, and to assist the Commission in conducting the same.

(5) To administer and enforce the policies and rules on international settlements under part 64 of this chapter.

(6) To interpret and enforce rules and regulations pertaining to matters under its jurisdiction and not within the jurisdiction of the Enforcement Bureau.

(7) To conduct studies and compile such data relating to international telecommunications as may be necessary for the Commission to develop and maintain an adequate regulatory program.

(8) To act upon applications for international telecommunications and services pursuant to relevant portions of part 63 of this chapter, and coordinate with the Wireline Competition Bureau as appropriate.

(9) To act upon applications for cable landing licenses pursuant to § 1.767 of this chapter.

(10) To act upon applications relating to international broadcast station operations, or for permission to deliver programming to foreign stations, under part 73 of this chapter.

(11) To administer and make available on a public website, a standardized set of national security and law enforcement questions for the categories of information set forth in part 1, subpart CC, of this chapter.

(12) To act upon requests for designation of Recognized Private Operating Agency (RPOA) status under part 63 of this chapter.

(13) Overseeing a team of staff from the FCC's Bureaus and Offices for the purposes of developing Commission positions related to international standard setting issues; collaborating on behalf of the FCC with other Federal agencies on international standard setting issues; and serving as the Chairperson's primary point of contact to develop goals and facilitate strategic decisions about FCC engagement in international standard setting efforts.

(14) To administer portions of part 2 of this chapter dealing with international treaties and call sign provisions, and to make call sign assignments, individually and in blocks, to U.S. government agencies and FCC operating bureaus.

(15) To make technical and ministerial edits to the rules adopted in the 2016 Report and Order in the review of foreign ownership policies for broadcast, common carrier, and aeronautical radio licensees to ensure that the Commission's rules continue to refer to the correct Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. 31 FCC Rcd 11272.

(b) Notwithstanding the authority delegated in paragraph (a) of this section, the Chief, Office of International Affairs, shall not have authority:

(1) To act on any application, petition, pleading, complaint, enforcement matter, or other request that:

(i) Presents new or novel arguments not previously considered by the Commission;

(ii) Presents facts or arguments which appear to justify a change in Commission policy; or

(iii) Cannot be resolved under outstanding precedents and guidelines after consultation with appropriate Bureaus or Offices.

(2) To issue notices of proposed rulemaking, notices of inquiry, or reports or orders arising from rulemaking or inquiry proceedings;

(3) To act upon any application for review of actions taken by the Chief, Office of International Affairs, pursuant to delegated authority, except that the Chief of the Office of International Affairs may dismiss any such application that does not contain any statement required under § 1.115(a) or (b) of this chapter, or does not comply with the filing requirements of § 1.115(d) or (f) of this chapter;

(4) To act upon any formal or informal radio application or section 214 application for common carrier services which is in hearing status;

(5) To designate for hearing any applications except applications for facilities where the issues presented relate solely to whether the applicant has complied with outstanding precedents and guidelines; or

(6) To impose, reduce, or cancel forfeitures pursuant to section 203 or section 503(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in amounts of more than $80,000 for common carrier providers and $20,000 for non-common carrier providers.
