
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart Y - Truth-in-Billing Requirements for Common Carriers; Billing for Unauthorized Charges
###### ยง 64.2401 Truth-in-Billing Requirements.
####### Bill organization.

(a)Telephone bills shall be clearly organized, and must comply with the following requirements:

(1) The name of the service provider associated with each charge must be clearly and conspicuously identified on the telephone bill.

(2) Where charges for two or more carriers appear on the same telephone bill, the charges must be separated by service provider.

(3) Carriers that place on their telephone bills charges from third parties for non-telecommunications services must place those charges in a distinct section of the bill separate from all carrier charges. Charges in each distinct section of the bill must be separately subtotaled. These separate subtotals for carrier and non-carrier charges also must be clearly and conspicuously displayed along with the bill total on the payment page of a paper bill or equivalent location on an electronic bill. For purposes of this subparagraph "equivalent location on an electronic bill" shall mean any location on an electronic bill where the bill total is displayed and any location where the bill total is displayed before the bill recipient accesses the complete electronic bill, such as in an electronic mail message notifying the bill recipient of the bill and an electronic link or notice on a Web site or electronic payment portal.

(4) The telephone bill must clearly and conspicuously identify any change in service provider, including identification of charges from any new service provider. For purpose of this subparagraph "new service provider" means a service provider that did not bill the subscriber for service during the service provider's last billing cycle. This definition shall include only providers that have continuing relationships with the subscriber that will result in periodic charges on the subscriber's bill, unless the service is subsequently canceled.
