
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart BB - Restrictions on Unwanted Mobile Service Commercial Messages
###### ยง 64.3100 Restrictions on mobile service commercial messages.
####### Express Prior Authorization

(d)may be obtained by oral or written means, including electronic methods.

(1) Written authorization must contain the subscriber's signature, including an electronic signature as defined by 15 U.S.C. 7001 (E-Sign Act).

(2) All authorizations must include the electronic mail address to which mobile service commercial messages can be sent or directed. If the authorization is made through a website, the website must allow the subscriber to input the specific electronic mail address to which commercial messages may be sent.

(3) Express Prior Authorization must be obtained by the party initiating the mobile service commercial message. In the absence of a specific request by the subscriber to the contrary, express prior authorization shall apply only to the particular person or entity seeking the authorization and not to any affiliated entities unless the subscriber expressly agrees to their being included in the express prior authorization.

(4) Express Prior Authorization may be revoked by a request from the subscriber, as noted in paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.

(5) All requests for express prior authorization must include the following disclosures:

(i) That the subscriber is agreeing to receive mobile service commercial messages sent to his/her wireless device from a particular sender. The disclosure must state clearly the identity of the business, individual, or other entity that will be sending the messages;

(ii) That the subscriber may be charged by his/her wireless service provider in connection with receipt of such messages; and

(iii) That the subscriber may revoke his/her authorization to receive MSCMs at any time.

(6) All notices containing the required disclosures must be clearly legible, use sufficiently large type or, if audio, be of sufficiently loud volume, and be placed so as to be readily apparent to a wireless subscriber. Any such disclosures must be presented separately from any other authorizations in the document or oral presentation. If any portion of the notice is translated into another language, then all portions of the notice must be translated into the same language.

(e) All CMRS providers must identify all electronic mail domain names used to offer subscribers messaging specifically for wireless devices in connection with commercial mobile service in the manner and time-frame described in a public notice to be issued by the Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau.

(f) Each CMRS provider is responsible for the continuing accuracy and completeness of information furnished for the FCC's wireless domain names list. CMRS providers must:

(1) File any future updates to listings with the Commission not less than 30 days before issuing subscribers any new or modified domain name;

(2) Remove any domain name that has not been issued to subscribers or is no longer in use within 6 months of placing it on the list or last date of use; and

(3) Certify that any domain name placed on the FCC's wireless domain names list is used for mobile service messaging.
