
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart CC - Customer Account Record Exchange Requirements
###### ยง 64.4002 Notification obligations of LECs.
####### Rejection of IXC-submitted PIC order.

(c)When a LEC rejects or otherwise does not act upon a PIC order submitted to it by an IXC, the LEC must notify the IXC and provide the reason(s) why the PIC order could not be processed. The notification provided by the LEC to the IXC must state that it has rejected the IXC-submitted PIC order and specify the reason(s) for the rejection (e.g., due to a lack of information, incorrect information, or a PIC freeze on the customer's account). The notification must contain the identical data elements that were provided to the LEC in the original IXC-submitted PIC order (i.e., mirror image of the original order), unless otherwise specified by this paragraph. If a LEC rejects an IXC-submitted PIC order for a multi-line account (i.e., the customer has selected the IXC as his PIC for two or more lines or terminals associated with his billing telephone number), the notification provided by the LEC rejecting that order must explain the effect of the rejection with respect to each line (working telephone number or terminal) associated with the customer's billing telephone number. A LEC is not required to generate a line-specific or terminal-specific response, however, and may communicate the rejection at the billing telephone level, when the LEC is unable to process an entire order, including all working telephone numbers and terminals associated with a particular billing telephone number. In addition, the notification must indicate the jurisdictional scope of the PIC order rejection (i.e., intraLATA and/or interLATA and/or international). If a LEC rejects a PIC order because:

(1) The customer's telephone number has been ported to another LEC; or

(2) The customer has otherwise changed local service providers, the LEC must include in its notification, to the extent that it is available, the identity of the customer's new LEC.
