
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart CC - Customer Account Record Exchange Requirements
###### ยง 64.4002 Notification obligations of LECs.
####### Change of local service provider.

(g)When a customer changes LECs, the customer's former LEC must notify the customer's PIC(s) of the customer's change in LEC and, if known, the identity of the customer's new LEC. If the customer also makes a PIC change, the customer's former LEC must also notify the customer's former PIC(s) of the change. When a customer only changes LECs, the new LEC must notify the customer's current PIC(s) that the customer's PIC selection has not changed. If the customer also makes a PIC change, the new LEC must notify the customer's new PIC of the customer's PIC selection. If the customer's former LEC is unable to identify the customer's new LEC, the former LEC must notify the customer's PIC(s) of a local service disconnection as described in paragraph (f).

(1) The required notifications also must contain information, if relevant and to the extent that it is available, reflecting the fact that an account change was the result of:

(i) The customer porting his number to a new LEC;

(ii) A local resale arrangement (customer has transferred to local reseller); or

(iii) The discontinuation of a local resale arrangement;

(2) The notification provided by the LEC to the IXC must include:

(i) The customer's billing telephone number, working telephone number, and, billing name and address;

(ii) The effective date of the change of local service providers or PIC change;

(iii) A description of the customer type (i.e., business or residential);

(iv) The jurisdictional scope of the lines or terminals affected (i.e., intraLATA and/or interLATA and/or international); and

(v) The carrier identification code of the IXC.
