
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Subpart EE - TRS Customer Proprietary Network Information.
###### ยง 64.5108 Notice required for use of customer proprietary network information.
####### Notice requirements specific to opt-out.

(d)A TRS provider shall provide notification to obtain opt-out approval through electronic or written methods, but not by oral or sign language communication (except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section). The contents of any such notification shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) TRS providers shall wait a 30-day minimum period of time after giving customers notice and an opportunity to opt-out before assuming customer approval to use, disclose, or permit access to CPNI. A TRS provider may, in its discretion, provide for a longer period. TRS providers shall notify customers as to the applicable waiting period for a response before approval is assumed.

(i) In the case of an electronic form of notification, the waiting period shall begin to run from the date on which the notification was sent; and

(ii) In the case of notification by mail, the waiting period shall begin to run on the third day following the date that the notification was mailed.

(2) TRS providers using the opt-out mechanism shall provide notices to their customers every two years.

(3) TRS providers that use email to provide opt-out notices shall comply with the following requirements in addition to the requirements generally applicable to notification:

(i) TRS providers shall obtain express, verifiable, prior approval from consumers to send notices via email regarding their service in general, or CPNI in particular;

(ii) TRS providers shall either:

(A) Allow customers to reply directly to the email containing the CPNI notice in order to opt-out; or

(B) Include within the email containing the CPNI notice a conspicuous link to a Web page that provides to the customer a readily usable opt-out mechanism;

(iii) Opt-out email notices that are returned to the TRS provider as undeliverable shall be sent to the customer in another form before the TRS provider may consider the customer to have received notice;

(iv) TRS providers that use email to send CPNI notices shall ensure that the subject line of the message clearly and accurately identifies the subject matter of the email; and

(v) TRS providers shall make available to every customer a method to opt-out that is of no additional cost to the customer and that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. TRS providers may satisfy this requirement through a combination of methods, so long as all customers have the ability to opt-out at no cost and are able to effectuate that choice whenever they choose.
