
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment
###### ยง 1.1158 Form of payment for regulatory fees.

Any annual and multiple year regulatory fee payment must be submitted by online Automatic Clearing House (ACH) payment, online Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card payment, or wire transfer payment denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on a United States financial institution and made payable to the Federal Communications Commission. No other credit card is acceptable. Any other form of payment for annual and multiple year regulatory fees (e.g., paper checks, cash) will be rejected and sent back to the payor. The Commission will not be responsible for cash, under any circumstances, sent through the mail.

(a) Payors making wire transfer payments must submit an accompanying FCC Form 159-E via facsimile.

(b) Multiple payment instruments for a single regulatory fee are not permitted, except that the Commission will accept multiple money orders in payment of any fee where the fee exceeds the maximum amount for a money order established by the issuing entity and the use of multiple money orders is the only practicable means available for payment.

(c) Payment of multiple standard regulatory fees (including an installment payment) due on the same date, may be made with a single payment instrument and cover mass media, common carrier, international, and cable service fee payments. Each regulatee is solely responsible for accurately accounting for and listing each license or authorization and the number of subscribers, access lines, or other relevant units on the accompanying FCC Form 159 and, if needed, FCC Form 159C and for making full payment for every regulatory fee listed on the accompanying form. Any omission or payment deficiency of a regulatory fee will result in a 25 percent penalty of the amount due and unpaid.

(d) Any regulatory fee payment (including a regulatory fee payment submitted with an application in the wireless radio service) made by credit card or money order must be submitted with a completed FCC Form 159. Failure to accurately enter the credit card number and date of expiration and the payor's signature in the appropriate blocks on FCC Form 159 will result in rejection of the credit card payment.
