
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment
###### § 1.1163 Adjustments to regulatory fees.

(a) For Fiscal Year 2019 and thereafter, the Schedule of Regulatory Fees, contained in §§ 1.1152 through 1.1156, may be adjusted annually by the Commission pursuant to section 9 of the Communications Act. 47 U.S.C. 159, as amended. Adjustments to the fees established for any category of regulatory fee payment shall include projected cost increases or decreases and an estimate of the volume of units upon which the regulatory fee is calculated.

(b) The fees assessed shall:

(1) Be derived by determining the full-time equivalent number of employees, bureaus and offices of the Commission, adjusted to take into account factors that are reasonably related to the benefits provided to the payor of the fee by the Commission's activities; and

(2) Be established at amounts that will result in collection, during each fiscal year, of an amount that can reasonably be expected to equal the amount appropriated for such fiscal year for the performance of the activities described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) The Commission shall by rule amend the Schedule of Regulatory Fees by increases or decreases that reflect, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, changes in the amount appropriated for the performance of the activities described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for such fiscal year. Such increases or decreases shall be adjusted to reflect unexpected increases or decreases in the number of units subject to payment of such fees and result in collection of an aggregate amount of fees that will approximately equal the amount appropriated for the subject regulatory activities.

(d) The Commission shall, by rule, amend the Schedule of Regulatory Fees if the Commission determines that the Schedule requires amendment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(e) In adjusting regulatory fees, the Commission will round such fees to the nearest $5.00 in the case of fees under $1,000.00, or to the nearest $25.00 in the case of fees of $1,000.00 or more.
