
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)

a. This appendix establishes rules, policies, and procedures and outlines responsibilities for the National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP) Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System. The NSEP TSP System authorizes priority treatment to certain telecommunications services and internet Protocol-based services, including voice, data, and video services, for which provisioning or restoration priority levels are requested, assigned, and approved in accordance with this appendix.

b. This appendix is issued pursuant to sections 1, 4(i), 4(j), 4(n), 201-205, 251(e)(3), 254, 301, 303(b), 303(g), 303(r), 307, 308(a), 309(a), 309(j), 316, 332, 403, 615a-1, 615c, and 706 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, codified at 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i)-(j), (n), 201-205, 251(e)(3), 254, 301, 303(b), 303(g), 303(r), 307, 308(a), 309(a), 309(j), 316, 332, 403, 615a-1, 615c, 606; and Executive Order 13618. These authorities grant to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) the authority over the assignment and approval of priorities for provisioning and restoration of telecommunications services and internet Protocol-based services (NSEP services). Under section 706 of the Communications Act, this authority may be superseded, and the mandatory provisions of this section may be expanded to include non-common carrier telecommunications services, by the war emergency powers of the President of the United States.

c. This appendix establishes rules for provisioning and restoration of NSEP services both before and after invocation of the President's war emergency powers. The rules, regulations, and procedures outlined in this appendix must be applied on a day-to-day basis to all NSEP services that are eligible for TSP so that the priorities they establish can be implemented when the need arises.

As used in this appendix:

a. Assignment means the designation of priority level(s) for a defined NSEP telecommunications service or internet Protocol-based service for a specified time period.

b. Audit means a quality assurance review in response to identified problems.
