
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### e.g.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

c. Government refers to the Federal government or any foreign, state, county, municipal or other local government agency or organization. Specific qualifications will be supplied whenever reference to a particular level of government is intended ("Federal government," "state government"). "Foreign government" means any sovereign empire, kingdom, state, or independent political community, including foreign diplomatic and consular establishments and coalitions or associations of governments (North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Southeast Asian Treaty Organization (SEATO), Organization of American States (OAS), and government agencies or organization (Pan American Union, International Postal Union, and International Monetary Fund)).

d. Internet Protocol-based services refers to services and applications that feature digital communications capabilities and which generally use the internet Protocol.

e. Invocation Official refers to an individual who (1) understands how the requested service ties to the organization's NSEP mission; (2) is authorized to approve the expenditure of funds necessary for the requested service; and (3) has operational responsibilities for telecommunications procurement and/or management within the organization.

f. National Coordinating Center for Communications (NCC) refers to the joint telecommunications industry-Federal government operation that assists in the initiation, coordination, restoration, and reconstitution of NSEP telecommunications services or facilities.

g. National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP) services, or "NSEP services," means telecommunications services or internet Protocol-based services which are used to maintain a state of readiness or to respond to and manage any event or crisis (local, national, or international), which causes or could cause injury or harm to the population, damage to or loss of property, or degrades or threatens the NSEP posture of the United States. These services fall into two specific categories, Emergency NSEP and Essential NSEP, and are assigned priority levels pursuant to section 8 of this appendix.

h. NSEP treatment refers to the provisioning of a specific NSEP service before others based on the provisioning priority level assigned by DHS.

i. Priority action means assignment, revision, revocation, or revalidation by DHS of a priority level associated with an NSEP service.

j. Priority level means the level that may be assigned to an NSEP service specifying the order in which provisioning or restoration of the service is to occur relative to other NSEP and/or non-NSEP telecommunications services. Priority levels authorized by this appendix are designated highest to lowest: E, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, for provisioning and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, for restoration.

k. Priority level assignment means the priority level(s) designated for the provisioning and/or restoration of a specific NSEP service under section 8 of this appendix.

l. Private NSEP services include non-common carrier telecommunications services.

m. Promptly means without delay.

n. Provisioning means the act of supplying service to a user, including all associated transmission, wiring, and equipment. As used herein, "provisioning" and "initiation" are synonymous and include altering the state of an existing priority service or capability.

o. Public switched NSEP services include those NSEP services using public switched networks.

p. Reconciliation means the comparison of NSEP service information and the resolution of identified discrepancies.

q. Restoration means the repair or returning to service of one or more services that have experienced a service outage or are unusable for any reason, including a damaged or impaired facility. Such repair or returning to service may be done by patching, rerouting, substitution of component parts or pathways, and other means, as determined necessary by a service provider.

r. Revalidation means the re-justification by a service user of a priority level assignment. This may result in extension by DHS of the expiration date associated with the priority level assignment.

s. Revision means the change of priority level assignment for an NSEP service. This includes any extension of an existing priority level assignment to an expanded NSEP service.

t. Revocation means the elimination of a priority level assignment when it is no longer valid. All priority level assignments for an NSEP service are revoked upon service termination.

u. Service identification refers to the information uniquely identifying an NSEP service to the service provider and/or service user.

v. Service user refers to any individual or organization (including a service provider) supported by an NSEP service for which a priority level has been requested or assigned pursuant to section 7 or 8 of this appendix.

w. Service provider refers to a provider of telecommunications services or internet Protocol-based services. The term includes resale carriers, prime contractors, subcontractors, and interconnecting carriers.

x. Spare circuits or services refers to those not being used or contracted for by any customer.

y. Sponsoring Federal organization refers to a Federal agency that determines eligibility for participation in the TSP Program for non-Federal (state, local, tribal, and foreign governments and private sector) organizations. A sponsor can be any Federal agency with which a non-Federal user may be affiliated. The sponsoring Federal agency ensures the service supports an NSEP function and merits TSP participation.

z. Telecommunications services means the offering of telecommunications for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.

a. Service providers.

(1) This appendix applies to the provision and restoration of certain telecommunications services or internet Protocol-based services for which priority levels are requested, assigned, and approved pursuant to section 8 of this appendix.

(2) Common carriers and providers of any services that are interconnected to common carrier services must offer prioritized provisioning and restoration of circuit-switched voice communication services. Any service provider may, on a voluntary basis, offer prioritized provisioning and restoration of data, video, and IP-based voice services.

b. Eligible services. The NSEP TSP System and procedures established by this appendix authorize priority treatment to the following domestic services (including portions of U.S. international services offered by U.S. service providers) for which provisioning or restoration priority levels are requested, assigned, and approved in accordance with this appendix:

(1) Common carrier services which are:

(a) Interstate or foreign telecommunications services,

(b) Intrastate telecommunications services inseparable from interstate or foreign telecommunications services, and intrastate telecommunications services to which priority levels are assigned pursuant to section 8 of this appendix.

(2) Services which are provided by government and/or non-common carriers and are interconnected to common carrier services assigned a priority level pursuant to section 8 of this appendix.
