
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### e.g.,

c. Control services and orderwires. The NSEP TSP System and procedures established by this appendix are not applicable to authorize priority treatment to control services or orderwires owned by a service provider and needed for provisioning, restoration, or maintenance of other services owned by that service provider,the signaling path(s) or control plane services used by a service provider's technical staff to control, coordinate, and direct network operations. Such control services and orderwires shall have priority provisioning and restoration over all other services (including NSEP services) and shall be exempt from preemption. However, the NSEP TSP System and procedures established by this appendix are applicable to control services or orderwires leased by a service provider.

d. Other services. The NSEP TSP System may apply, at the discretion of and upon special arrangements by service users involved, to authorize priority treatment to the following services:

(1) Government or non-common carrier services which are not connected to common carrier provided services assigned a priority level pursuant to section 8 of this appendix.

(2) Portions of U.S. international services which are provided by foreign correspondents. (U.S. service providers are encouraged to ensure that relevant operating arrangements are consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the NSEP TSP System. If such arrangements do not exist, U.S. service providers should handle service provisioning and/or restoration in accordance with any system acceptable to their foreign correspondents which comes closest to meeting the procedures established in this appendix.)
