
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### i.e.,

The NSEP TSP System is the regulatory, administrative, and operational system authorizing and providing for priority treatment,provisioning and restoration, of NSEP services. As such, it establishes the framework for service providers to provision, restore, or otherwise act on a priority basis to ensure effective NSEP services. The NSEP TSP System allows the assignment of priority levels to any NSEP service across three time periods, or stress conditions: Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilizations, Attack/War, and Post-Attack/Recovery. Although priority levels normally will be assigned by DHS and retained by service providers only for the current time period, they may be preassigned for the other two time periods at the request of service users who are able to identify and justify in advance, their wartime or post-attack NSEP requirements. Absent such preassigned priority levels for the Attack/War and Post-Attack/Recovery periods, priority level assignments for the Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization period will remain in effect. At all times, priority level assignments will be subject to revision by the FCC or (on an interim basis) DHS, based upon changing NSEP needs. No other system of service priorities which conflicts with the NSEP TSP System is authorized by this appendix.

a. The FCC:

(1) Provides regulatory oversight of the NSEP TSP System.

(2) Enforces NSEP TSP System rules and regulations which are contained in this appendix.

(3) Performs such functions as are required by law, including:

(a) with respect to all entities licensed or regulated by the FCC: the extension of or change in network facilities; the discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of interstate services; the control of common carrier rates, charges, practices, and classifications; the construction, authorization, activation, deactivation, or closing of radio stations, services, and facilities; the assignment of radio frequencies to licensees; the investigation of violations of FCC rules; and the assessment of communications service provider emergency needs and resources; and

(b) supports the continuous operation and restoration of critical communications systems and services by assisting the Secretary of Homeland Security with infrastructure damage assessment and restoration, and by providing the Secretary of Homeland Security with information collected by the FCC on communications infrastructure, service outages, and restoration, as appropriate.

(4) Functions (on a discretionary basis) as a sponsoring Federal organization. (See section 5.b below.)

b. Sponsoring Federal organizations:

(1) Review and decide whether to sponsor foreign, state, and local government and private industry (including service providers) requests for priority actions. Federal organizations forward sponsored requests with recommendations for disposition to DHS. Such recommendations are based on the categories and criteria in section 10 of this appendix.

(2) Forward notification of priority actions or denials of requests for priority actions from DHS to the requesting foreign, state, and local government and private industry entities.

(3) Cooperate with DHS during reconciliation, revalidation, and audits.

c. Service users:

(1) Identify services requiring priority level assignments and request and justify priority level assignments in accordance with this appendix.

(2) Request and justify revalidation of all priority level assignments at least every three years.

(3) For services assigned priority levels, ensure (through contractual means or otherwise) availability of customer premises equipment and wiring necessary for end-to-end service operation by the service due date, and continued operation; and, for such services in the Emergency NSEP category, by the time that providers are prepared to provide the services. Additionally, designate the organization responsible for the service on an end-to-end basis.

(4) Prepare to accept services assigned priority levels by the service due dates or, for services in the Emergency NSEP category, when they are available.

(5) Pay providers any authorized costs associated with services that are assigned priority levels.

(6) Report to providers any failed or unusable services that are assigned priority levels.

(7) Designate a 24-hour point-of-contact for matters concerning each request for priority action and apprise DHS thereof.
