
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### e.g.,

(8) Upon termination of services that are assigned priority levels, or circumstances warranting revisions in priority level assignment (expansion of service), request and justify revocation or revision.

(9) When NSEP treatment is invoked under section 8(c) of this appendix, within 90 days following provisioning of the service involved, forward to the Priority Services Program Office complete information identifying the time and event associated with the invocation and regarding whether the NSEP service requirement was adequately handled and whether any additional charges were incurred.

(10) Cooperate with DHS during reconciliation, revalidation, and audits.

(11) Comply with DHS policies and procedures that are consistent with this appendix.

d. Non-federal service users, in addition to responsibilities described above in section 5.c, obtain a sponsoring Federal organization for all requests for priority actions. If unable to find a sponsoring Federal organization, a non-federal service user may submit its request, which must include documentation of attempts made to obtain a sponsor and reasons given by the sponsor for its refusal, directly to DHS.

e. Service providers:

(1) When NSEP treatment is invoked by service users, provision NSEP services before non-NSEP services, based on priority level assignments made by DHS. Service providers must:

(a) Promptly provide NSEP services. When limited resources constrain response capability, providers will address conflicts for resources by:

(i) Providing NSEP services in order of provisioning priority level assignment, from highest ("E") to lowest ("5");
