
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### i.e.,

(9) Provision or restore only the portions of services for which they have agreed to be responsible (have contracted to supply), unless the President's war emergency powers under section 706 of the Communications Act are in effect.

(10) Cooperate with DHS during audits.

(11) Comply with DHS policies or procedures that are consistent with this appendix.

(12) Ensure that at all times a reasonable number of public switched network services are made available for public use.

(13) Do not disclose information concerning NSEP services they provide to those not having a need-to-know or that might use the information for competitive advantage.

(14) Take all reasonable efforts to secure the confidentiality of TSP information from unauthorized disclosure, including by storing such information in a location and with security safeguards that are reasonably designed to protect against lawful or unlawful disclosure to company employees or service providers without a legitimate need for this information, or other entities to which the disclosure of this information would pose a threat to the national security of the United States. Service providers will immediately notify the FCC and DHS of any attempt to compel the disclosure of this information and will coordinate with the FCC and DHS prior to such disclosure. In emergency situations where prior notice is impracticable, service providers will notify the FCC and DHS as soon as possible, but no later than 48 hours after such disclosure, and should accompany such notice with an explanation why prior notice was not practicable.

(15) Comply with all relevant Commission rules regarding TSP.

When necessary to provision or restore NSEP services, service providers may preempt services they provide as specified below. "Service user" as used in this section means any user of a telecommunications service or internet Protocol-based service, including both NSEP and non-NSEP services. Prior consent by a preempted user is not required.

a. Existing services may be preempted to provision NSEP services assigned Priority Level E or restore NSEP services assigned Priority Level 1 through 5 according to the following sequence:

(1) Non-NSEP services: If suitable spare services are not available, non-NSEP services will be preempted. After ensuring a sufficient number of public switched services are available for public use, based on the service provider's best judgment, such services may be used to satisfy a requirement for provisioning or restoring NSEP services.

(2) NSEP services: If no suitable spare services or non-NSEP services are available, existing NSEP services may be preempted to provision or restore NSEP services with higher priority level assignments. When this is necessary, NSEP services will be selected for preemption in the inverse order of priority level assignment.

(3) Service providers who are preempting services will ensure their best effort to notify the service user of the preempted service and state the reason for and estimated duration of the preemption.

b. Service providers may, based on their best judgment, determine the sequence in which existing services may be preempted to provision NSEP services assigned Priority Level 1 through 5. Preemption is not subject to the consent of the user whose service will be preempted.

All service users are required to submit requests for priority assignments to DHS in the format and following the procedures that DHS prescribes.

a. Assignment and approval of priority levels. Priority level assignments will be based upon the categories and criteria specified in section 10 of this appendix. After invocation of the President's war emergency powers, these requirements may be superseded by other procedures issued by DHS.

b. Use of priority level assignments.

(1) All provisioning and restoration priority level assignments for services in the Emergency NSEP category will be included in initial service orders to providers. Provisioning priority level assignments for Essential NSEP services, however, will not usually be included in initial service orders to providers. NSEP treatment for Essential NSEP services will be invoked and provisioning priority level assignments will be conveyed to service providers only if the providers cannot meet needed service dates through the normal provisioning process.

(2) Any revision or revocation of either provisioning or restoration priority level assignments will also be transmitted to providers.

(3) Service providers shall accept priority levels and/or revisions only after assignment by DHS.

c. Invocation of NSEP treatment. To invoke NSEP treatment for the priority provisioning of an NSEP service, an authorized federal employee within, or acting on behalf of, the service user's organization must make a declaration to concerned service provider(s) and DHS that NSEP treatment is being invoked. An authorized invocation official is one who (1) understands how the requested service ties to the organization's NSEP mission; (2) is authorized to approve the expenditure of funds necessary for the requested service; and (3) has operational responsibilities for telecommunications procurement and/or management within the organization.

Service users or sponsoring Federal organizations may appeal any priority level assignment, denial, revision, revocation, approval, or disapproval to DHS within 30 days of notification to the service user. The appellant must use the form or format required by DHS and must serve the FCC with a copy of its appeal. Service users and sponsoring Federal organizations may only appeal directly to the FCC after DHS action on the appeal. Such FCC appeal must be filed within 30 days of notification of DHS's decision on appeal. Additionally, DHS may appeal any FCC revisions, approvals, or disapprovals to the FCC. All appeals to the FCC must be submitted using the form or format required. The party filing its appeal with the FCC must include factual details supporting its claim and must serve a copy on DHS and any other party directly involved. Such party may file a response within 20 days, and replies may be filed within 10 days thereafter. The Commission will not issue public notices of such submissions. The Commission will provide notice of its decision to the parties of record. Any appeals to DHS that include a claim of new information that has not been presented before for consideration may be submitted at any time.

a. General. NSEP TSP System categories and criteria, and permissible priority level assignments, are defined and explained below.

(1) The Essential NSEP category has four subcategories: National Security Leadership; National Security Posture and U.S. Population Attack Warning; Public Health, Safety, and Maintenance of Law and Order; and Public Welfare and Maintenance of National Economic Posture. Each subcategory has its own criteria. Criteria are also shown for the Emergency NSEP category, which has no sub-categories.

(2) Priority Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 may be assigned for provisioning and/or restoration of Essential NSEP services. However, for Emergency NSEP services, Priority Level E is assigned for provisioning, and Priority Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 may be assigned for restoration of Emergency NSEP services.

(3) The NSEP TSP System allows the assignment of priority levels to any NSEP service across three time periods, or stress conditions: Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization, Attack/War, and Post-Attack/Recovery. It is expected that priority levels may be revised within the three time periods by surviving authorized resource managers within DHS based upon specific facts and circumstances.

(4) Service users may, for their own internal use, assign sub-priorities to their services assigned priority levels. Receipt of and response to any such sub-priorities is optional for service providers.

(5) The following paragraphs provide a detailed explanation of the categories, subcategories, criteria, and priority level assignments, beginning with the Emergency NSEP category.

b. Emergency NSEP. Services in the Emergency NSEP category are those new services so critical as to be required to be provisioned at the earliest possible time, without regard to the costs of obtaining them.

(1) Criteria. To qualify under the Emergency NSEP category, the service must meet criteria directly supporting or resulting from at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(a) Federal government activity responding to a Presidentially declared disaster or emergency as defined in the Disaster Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5122).

(b) State or local government activity responding to a Presidentially declared disaster or emergency.
