
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix A to Part 64 - Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) System for National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### et seq.

(g) A request from an official authorized pursuant to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (50 U.S.C. 1801and 18 U.S.C. 2511, 2518, 2519).

(2) Priority Level Assignment.

(a) Services qualifying under the Emergency NSEP category are assigned Priority Level E for provisioning.

(b) After 30 days, assignments of Priority Level E for Emergency NSEP services are automatically revoked unless extended for another 30-day period. A notice of any such revocation will be sent to service providers.

(c) For restoration, Emergency NSEP services may be assigned priority levels under the provisions applicable to Essential NSEP services (see section 10(c)). Emergency NSEP services not otherwise qualifying for restoration priority level assignment as Essential NSEP may be assigned Priority Level 5 for a 30-day period. Such 30-day restoration priority level assignment will be revoked automatically unless extended for another 30-day period. A notice of any such revocation will be sent to service providers.

c. Essential NSEP. Services in the Essential NSEP category are those required to be provisioned by due dates specified by service users, or restored promptly, normally without regard to associated overtime or expediting costs. They may be assigned Priority Level 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 for both provisioning and restoration, depending upon the nature and urgency of the supported function, the impact of lack of service or of service interruption upon the supported function, and, for priority access to public switched services, the user's level of responsibility. Priority level assignments will be valid for no more than three years unless revalidated. To be categorized as Essential NSEP, a service must qualify under one of the four following subcategories: National Security Leadership; National Security Posture and U.S. Population Attack Warning; Public Health, Safety and Maintenance of Law and Order; or Public Welfare and Maintenance of National Economic Posture. (Note: Under emergency circumstances, Essential NSEP services may be recategorized as Emergency NSEP and assigned Priority Level E for provisioning.)

(1) National security leadership. This subcategory is strictly limited to only those NSEP services essential to national survival if nuclear attack threatens or occurs, and critical orderwire and control services necessary to ensure the rapid and efficient provisioning or restoration of other NSEP services. Services in this subcategory are those for which a service interruption of even a few minutes would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP function.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must be at least one of the following:

(i) Critical orderwire, or control services, supporting other NSEP functions.

(ii) Presidential communications service critical to continuity of government and national leadership during crisis situations.

(iii) National command authority communications service for military command and control critical to national survival.

(iv) Intelligence communications service critical to warning of potentially catastrophic attack.

(v) Communications service supporting the conduct of diplomatic negotiations critical to arresting or limiting hostilities.

(b) Priority level assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned Priority Level 1 for provisioning and restoration during the Peace/Crisis/Mobilization time period.

(2) National security posture and U.S. population attack warning. This subcategory covers additional NSEP services that are essential to maintaining an optimum defense, diplomatic, or continuity-of-government postures before, during, and after crises situations. Such situations are those ranging from national emergencies to international crises, including nuclear attack. Services in this subcategory are those for which a service interruption ranging from a few minutes to one day would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP function.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must support at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(i) Threat assessment and attack warning.

(ii) Conduct of diplomacy.

(iii) Collection, processing, and dissemination of intelligence.

(iv) Command and control of military forces.

(v) Military mobilization.

(vi) Continuity of Federal government before, during, and after crises situations.

(vii) Continuity of state and local government functions supporting the Federal government during and after national emergencies.

(viii) Recovery of critical national functions after crises situations.

(ix) National space operations.

(b) Priority level assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned Priority Level 2, 3, 4, or 5 for provisioning and restoration during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization.

(3) Public health, safety, and maintenance of law and order. This subcategory covers NSEP services necessary for giving civil alert to the U.S. population and maintaining law and order and the health and safety of the U.S. population in times of any national, regional, or serious local emergency. These services are those for which a service interruption ranging from a few minutes to one day would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP functions.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must support at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(i) Population warning (other than attack warning).

(ii) Law enforcement.

(iii) Continuity of critical state and local government functions (other than support of the Federal government during and after national emergencies).

(vi) Hospitals and distributions of medical supplies.

(v) Critical logistic functions and public utility services.

(vi) Civil air traffic control.

(vii) Military assistance to civil authorities.

(viii) Defense and protection of critical industrial facilities.

(ix) Critical weather services.

(x) Transportation to accomplish the foregoing NSEP functions.

(b) Priority level assignment. Service under this subcategory will normally be assigned Priority Levels 3, 4, or 5 for provisioning and restoration during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization.

(4) Public welfare and maintenance of national economic posture. This subcategory covers NSEP services necessary for maintaining the public welfare and national economic posture during any national or regional emergency. These services are those for which a service interruption ranging from a few minutes to one day would have serious adverse impact upon the supported NSEP function.

(a) Criteria. To qualify under this subcategory, a service must support at least one of the following NSEP functions:

(i) Distribution of food and other essential supplies.

(ii) Maintenance of national monetary, credit, and financial systems.

(iii) Maintenance of price, wage, rent, and salary stabilization, and consumer rationing programs.

(iv) Control of production and distribution of strategic materials and energy supplies.

(v) Prevention and control of environmental hazards or damage.

(vi) Transportation to accomplish the foregoing NSEP functions.

(b) Priority level assignment. Services under this subcategory will normally be assigned Priority Levels 4 or 5 for provisioning and restoration during Peacetime/Crisis/Mobilization.
