
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix B to Part 64 - Wireless Priority Service (WPS) for National Security and Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)

a. This appendix establishes rules, policies, and procedures and outlines responsibilities for the Wireless Priority Service (WPS), previously called Priority Access Service (PAS), to support the needs of National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP) personnel. WPS authorizes priority treatment to certain domestic telecommunications services and internet Protocol-based services (NSEP services) for which priority levels are requested, assigned, and approved in accordance with this appendix.

b. This appendix is issued pursuant to sections 1, 4(i), 4(j), 4(n), 201-205, 251(e)(3), 254, 301, 303(b), 303(g), 303(r), 307, 308(a), 309(a), 309(j), 316, 332, 403, 615a-1, 615c, and 706 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, codified at 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i)-(j), (n), 201-205, 251(e)(3), 254, 301, 303(b), 303(g), 303(r), 307, 308(a), 309(a), 309(j), 316, 332, 403, 615a-1, 615c, 606; and Executive Order 13618. Under section 706 of the Communications Act, this authority may be superseded by the war emergency powers of the President of the United States.

As used in this appendix:

a. Authorizing agent refers to a Federal or State entity that authenticates, evaluates, and makes recommendations to DHS regarding the assignment of priority levels.

b. Service provider (or wireless service provider) refers to a provider of a wireless communications service or internet Protocol-based service, including commercial or private mobile service. The term includes agents of the licensed provider and resellers of wireless service.

c. Service user means an individual or organization to whom or which a priority access assignment has been made.

d. The following terms have the same meaning as in Appendix A to part 64, as amended:

(1) Assignment;

(2) Government;

(3) internet Protocol-based services;

(4) National Coordinating Center for Communications (NCC);

(5) National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP) services (excluding the last sentence);

(6) Reconciliation;

(7) Revalidation;

(8) Revision;

(9) Revocation.

a. Applicability. This appendix applies to the provision of WPS by wireless service providers to users who qualify under the provisions of section 6 of this appendix.

b. Eligible services. Wireless service providers may, on a voluntary basis, give eligible users priority access to, and priority use of, all secure and non-secure voice, data, and video services available over their networks. Providers that elect to offer these services must comply with all provisions of this appendix.

WPS provides the means for NSEP users to obtain priority wireless access to available radio channels when necessary to initiate emergency communications. It does not preempt public safety emergency (911) calls, but it may preempt or degrade other in-progress voice calls. NSEP users are authorized to use priority signaling to ensure networks can detect WPS handset network registration and service invocation. WPS is used during situations when network congestion is blocking NSEP call attempts. It is available to authorized NSEP users at all times in markets where the service provider has voluntarily elected to provide such service. Priority Levels 1 through 5 are reserved for qualified and authorized NSEP users, and those users are provided access to radio channels before any other users.

a. The FCC:

(1) Provides regulatory oversight of WPS.

(2) Enforces WPS rules and regulations, which are contained in this appendix.

(3) Acts as final authority for approval, revision, or disapproval of priority assignments by DHS and adjudicates disputes regarding priority assignments and denials of such requests by DHS, until superseded by the President's war emergency powers under Section 706 of the Communications Act.

(4) Performs such functions as are required by law, including:

(a) with respect to all entities licensed or regulated by the FCC: the extension of or change in network facilities; the discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of interstate services; the control of common carrier rates, charges, practices, and classifications; the construction, authorization, activation, deactivation, or closing of radio stations, services, and facilities; the assignment of radio frequencies to licensees; the investigation of violations of FCC rules; and the assessment of communications service provider emergency needs and resources; and

(b) supports the continuous operation and restoration of critical communications systems and services by assisting the Secretary of Homeland Security with infrastructure damage assessment and restoration, and by providing the Secretary of Homeland Security with information collected by the FCC on communications infrastructure, service outages, and restoration, as appropriate.

b. Authorizing agents:

(1) Identify themselves as authorizing agents and their respective communities of interest to DHS. State authorizing agents provide a central point of contact to receive priority requests from users within their state. Federal authorizing agents provide a central point of contact to receive priority requests from Federal users or Federally sponsored entities.

(2) Authenticate, evaluate, and make recommendations to DHS to approve priority level assignment requests using the priorities and criteria specified in section 6 of this appendix. When appropriate, authorizing agents recommend approval or denial of requests for WPS.

(3) Ensure that documentation is complete and accurate before forwarding it to DHS.

(4) Serve as a conduit for forwarding WPS information from DHS to service users and vice versa. Such information includes WPS requests and assignments, reconciliation and revalidation notifications, and other relevant information.

(5) Participate in reconciliation and revalidation of WPS information at the request of DHS.

(6) Disclose content of the WPS database only to those having a need-to-know.

c. Service users:

(1) Determine the need for and request WPS assignments in accordance with the processes and procedures established by DHS.

(2) Initiate WPS requests through the appropriate authorizing agent. DHS approves or denies WPS requests and may direct service providers to remove WPS if appropriate. (Note: state and local government and private users apply for WPS through their designated state government authorizing agent. Federal users apply for WPS through their employing agency. State and local users in states where there has been no designation are sponsored by the Federal agency concerned with the emergency function as set forth in Executive Order 12656. If no authorizing agent is determined using these criteria, DHS serves as the authorizing agent.)

(3) Submit all correspondence regarding WPS to the authorizing agent.

(4) Participate in reconciliation and revalidation of WPS information at the request of the authorizing agent or DHS.

(5) Request discontinuance of WPS when the NSEP qualifying criteria used to obtain WPS is no longer applicable.

(6) Pay service providers as billed for WPS.

d. Service providers:

(1) Provide WPS only upon receipt of an authorization from DHS and remove WPS for specific users at the direction of DHS.

(2) Ensure that WPS Priority Level 1 exceeds all other priority services offered by WPS providers.

(3) Designate a point of contact to coordinate with DHS regarding WPS.

(4) Participate in reconciliation and revalidation of WPS information at the request of DHS.

(5) As technically and economically feasible, provide roaming service users the same grade of WPS provided to local service users.

(6) Disclose information regarding WPS users only to those having a need-to-know or who will not use the information for economic advantage.

(7) Ensure that at all times a reasonable amount of wireless spectrum is made available for public use.

(8) Notify DHS and the service user if WPS is to be discontinued as a service.

(9) Comply with all relevant Commission rules regarding WPS.

e. An appropriate body identified by DHS will identify and review any systemic problems associated with the WPS system and recommend actions to correct them or prevent their recurrence.

a. The following WPS priority levels and qualifying criteria apply equally to all users and will be used as a basis for all WPS assignments. There are five levels of NSEP priorities, with Priority Level 1being the highest. The five priority levels are:

(1) Executive Leadership and Policy Makers.

Users who qualify for the Executive Leadership and Policy Makers category will be assigned Priority Level 1. A limited number of technicians who are essential to restoring wireless networks shall also receive this highest priority treatment. Users assigned to Priority Level 1 receive the highest priority in relation to all other priority services offered by WPS providers. Examples of users who are eligible for Priority Level 1 include:

(i) The President of the United States, the Secretary of Defense, selected military leaders, and the staff who support these officials;

(ii) State governors, lieutenant governors, cabinet-level officials responsible for public safety and health, and the staff who support these officials; and

(iii) Mayors, county commissioners, and the staff who support these officials.

(2) Disaster Response/Military Command and Control.

Users who qualify for the Disaster Response/Military Command and Control category will be assigned Priority Level 2. This priority level includes individuals who manage the initial response to an emergency at the Federal, state, local, and regional levels. Personnel selected for this priority level are responsible for ensuring the viability or reconstruction of the basic infrastructure in an emergency area. In addition, personnel essential to continuity of government and national security functions (such as the conduct of international affairs and intelligence activities) are also included in this priority level. Examples of users who are eligible for Priority Level 2 include personnel from the following categories:
