
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 64 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS
##### Appendix B to Part 64 - Wireless Priority Service (WPS) for National Security and Emergency Preparedness (NSEP)
###### e.g.,

(i) Federal emergency operations center coordinators,Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau (FCC); Manager, National Coordinating Center for Communications; National Interagency Fire Center, Federal Coordinating Officer, Director of Military Support;

(ii) State emergency services directors, National Guard leadership, Federal and state damage assessment team leaders;

(iii) Federal, state and local personnel with continuity of government responsibilities;

(iv) Incident command center managers, local emergency managers, other state and local elected public safety officials; and

(v) Federal personnel with intelligence and diplomatic responsibilities.

(3) Public Health, Safety and Law Enforcement Command.

Users who qualify for the Public Health, Safety, and Law Enforcement Command category will be assigned Priority Level 3. This priority level includes individuals who conduct operations critical to life, property, and maintenance of law and order immediately following an emergency event. Examples of users who are eligible for Priority Level 3 include personnel from the following categories:

(i) Federal law enforcement;

(ii) State police;

(iii) Local fire and law enforcement;

(iv) Emergency medical services;

(v) Search and rescue;

(vi) Emergency communications;

(vii) Critical infrastructure protection; and

(viii) Hospital personnel.

(4) Public Services/Utilities and Public Welfare.

Users who qualify for the Public Services/Utilities and Public Welfare category will be assigned Priority Level 4. This priority level includes individuals who manage public works and utility infrastructure damage assessment and restoration efforts and transportation to accomplish emergency response activities. Examples of users who are eligible for Priority Level 4 include personnel from the following categories:

(i) Army Corps of Engineers;

(ii) Power, water, and sewage;

(iii) Communications;

(iv) Transportation; and

(v) Financial services.

(5) Disaster Recovery.

Users who qualify for the Disaster Recovery category will be assigned Priority Level 5. This priority level includes individuals who manage a variety of recovery operations after the initial response has been accomplished. These functions may include managing medical resources such as supplies, personnel, or patients in medical facilities. Other activities such as coordination to establish and stock shelters, to obtain detailed damage assessments, or to support key disaster field office personnel may be included. Examples of users who are eligible for Priority Level 5 include personnel from the following categories:

(i) Medical recovery;

(ii) Detailed damage assessment;

(iii) Emergency shelter; and

(iv) Joint Field Office support personnel.

b. These priority levels were selected to meet the needs of NSEP users who manage and respond to national security and public safety emergency situations, particularly during the first 24 to 72 hours following an event.

c. The entities listed above are examples of the groups of users who may qualify for each priority level. The lists are non-exhaustive; other users may qualify for WPS, including those from the critical infrastructure sectors identified in Presidential Policy Directive 21. However, specific eligibility determinations and priority level assignments are made by DHS.

Service users and authorizing agents may appeal any priority level assignment, denial, revision, or revocation to DHS within 30 days of notification to the service user. If a dispute still exists following DHS action, an appeal may then be made to the FCC within 30 days of notification of DHS's decision. The party filing the appeal must include factual details supporting its claim and must provide a copy of the appeal to DHS and any other party directly involved. Involved parties may file a response to the appeal made to the FCC within 20 days, and the initial filing party may file a reply within 10 days thereafter. The FCC will provide notice of its decision to the parties of record. Until a decision is made, the service will remain status quo.

Service providers may preempt or degrade in-progress voice, data, text, and video communications from NSEP users assigned to any priority level, except for public safety emergency (911) communications, when necessary to prioritize eligible WPS communications.

a. Service providers are not required to offer preemption or degradation.

b. Preemption and degradation are authorized for all five priority levels.

c. Preemption and degradation are not subject to the consent of the user whose service will be preempted or degraded.

Service providers may offer priority signaling to ensure networks can detect WPS handset registration and service invocation.
