
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment
###### § 1.1166 Waivers, reductions and deferrals of regulatory fees.

The fees established by §§ 1.1152 through 1.1156 and associated interest charges and penalties may be waived, reduced or deferred in specific instances, on a case-by-case basis, where good cause is shown and where waiver, reduction or deferral of such fees, interest charges and penalties would promote the public interest. Requests for waivers, reductions or deferrals of regulatory fees for entire categories of payors will not be considered.

(a) Requests for waivers, reductions or deferrals should be filed with the Commission's Secretary and will be acted upon by the Managing Director with the concurrence of the General Counsel. All such filings within the scope of the fee rules shall be filed as a separate pleading and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. Any such request that is not filed as a separate pleading will not be considered by the Commission.

(b) Deferrals of fees, interest, or penalties if granted, will be for a designated period of time not to exceed six months.

(c) Petitions for waiver of a regulatory fee, interest, or penalties must be accompanied by the required fee, interest, or penalties and FCC Form 159. Submitted fees, interest, or penalties will be returned if a waiver is granted. Waiver requests that do not include the required fees, interest, or penalties or forms will be dismissed unless accompanied by a petition to defer payment due to financial hardship, supported by documentation of the financial hardship.

(d) Petitions for reduction of a fee, interest, or penalty must be accompanied by the full fee, interest, or penalty payment and Form 159. Petitions for reduction that do not include the required fees, interest, or penalties or forms will be dismissed unless accompanied by a petition to defer payment due to financial hardship, supported by documentation of the financial hardship.

(e) Petitions for waiver of a fee, interest, or penalty based on financial hardship, including bankruptcy, will not be granted, even if otherwise consistent with Commission policy, to the extent that the total regulatory and application fees, interest, or penalties for which waiver is sought exceeds $500,000 in any fiscal year, including regulatory fees due in any fiscal year, but paid prior to the due date. In computing this amount, the amounts owed by an entity and its subsidiaries and other affiliated entities will be aggregated. In cases where the claim of financial hardship is not based on bankruptcy, waiver, partial waiver, or deferral of fees, interest, or penalties above the $500,000 cap may be considered on a case-by-case basis.
