
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 65 - INTERSTATE RATE OF RETURN PRESCRIPTION, PROCEDURES, AND METHODOLOGIES
##### Subpart G - Rate Base
###### ยง 65.820 Included items.
####### Cash working capital.

(d)The average amount of investor-supplied capital needed to provide funds for a carrier's day-to-day interstate operations. Carriers may calculate a cash working capital allowance either by performing a lead-lag study of interstate revenue and expense items or by using the formula set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. Carriers, in lieu of performing a lead-lag study or using the formula in paragraph (e) of this section, may calculate the cash working capital allowance using a standard allowance which will be established annually by the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau. When either the lead-lag study or formula method is used to calculate cash working capital, the amount calculated under the study or formula may be increased by minimum bank balances and working cash advances to determine the cash working capital allowance. Once a carrier has selected a method of determining its cash working capital allowance, it shall not change to an optional method from one year to the next without Commission approval.

(e) In lieu of a full lead-lag study, carriers may calculate the cash working capital allowance using the following formula.

(1) Compute the weighted average revenue lag days as follows:

(i) Multiply the average revenue lag days for interstate revenues billed in arrears by the percentage of interstate revenues billed in arrears.

(ii) Multiply the average revenue lag days for interstate revenues billed in advance by the percentage of interstate revenues billed in advance. (Note: a revenue lead should be shown as a negative lag.)

(iii) Add the results of paragraphs (e)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section to determine the weighted average revenue lag days.

(2) Compute the weighted average expense lag days as follows:
