
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 68 - CONNECTION OF TERMINAL EQUIPMENT TO THE TELEPHONE NETWORK
##### Subpart B - Conditions on Use of Terminal Equipment
###### ยง 68.105 Minimum point of entry (MPOE) and demarcation point.
####### See

(3) In any multiunit premises where the demarcation point is not already at the MPOE, the provider of wireline telecommunications services must comply with a request from the premises owner to relocate the demarcation point to the MPOE. The provider of wireline telecommunications services must negotiate terms in good faith and complete the negotiations within forty-five days from said request. Premises owners may file complaints with the Commission for resolution of allegations of bad faith bargaining by provider of wireline telecommunications services.47 U.S.C. 208, 47 CFR 1.720 through 1.740.

(4) The provider of wireline telecommunications services shall make available information on the location of the demarcation point within ten business days of a request from the premises owner. If the provider of wireline telecommunications services does not provide the information within that time, the premises owner may presume the demarcation point to be at the MPOE. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 68.110(b), provider of wireline telecommunications services must make this information freely available to the requesting premises owner.

(5) In multiunit premises with more than one customer, the premises owner may adopt a policy restricting a customer's access to wiring on the premises to only that wiring located in the customer's individual unit that serves only that particular customer.
