
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 68 - CONNECTION OF TERMINAL EQUIPMENT TO THE TELEPHONE NETWORK
##### Subpart C - Terminal Equipment Approval Procedures
###### ยง 68.215 Installation of other than "fully protected" system premises wiring that serves more than four subscriber access lines.
####### Documentation requirements.

(e)A notarized affidavit and one copy thereof shall be prepared by the installation supervisor in advance of each operation associated with the installation, connection, reconfiguration and removal of other than fully-protected premises wiring (except when accomplished functionally using a cross-connect panel), except when involved with removal of the entire premises communications system using such wiring. This affidavit and its copy shall contain the following information:

(1) The responsible supervisor's full name, business address and business telephone number.

(2) The name of the registrant(s) (or manufacturer(s), if grandfathered equipment is involved) of any equipment to be used electrically between the wiring and the telephone network interface, which does not contain inherent protection against hazardous voltages and longitudinal imbalance.

(3) A statement as to whether the supervisor complies with ยง 68.215(c). Training and authority under ยง 68.215(c)(2)-(3) is required from the registrant (or manufacturer, if grandfathered equipment is involved) of the first piece of equipment electrically connected to the telephone network interface, other than passive equipments such as extensions, cross-connect panels, or adapters. In general, this would be the registrant (or manufacturer) of a system's common equipment.

(4) The date(s) when placement and connection of the wiring will take place.

(5) The business affiliation of the installation personnel.

(6) Identification of specific national and local codes which will be adhered to.

(7) The manufacturer(s); a brief description of the wire which will be used (model number or type); its conformance with recognized standards for wire if any (e.g., Underwriters Laboratories listing, Rural Electrification Administration listing, "KS-" specification, etc.); and a general description of the attachment of the wiring to the structure (e.g., run in conduit or ducts exclusively devoted to telephone wiring, "fished" through walls, surface attachment, etc.).

(8) The date when acceptance testing for imbalance will take place.

(9) The supervisor's signature. The notarized original shall be submitted to the provider of wireline telecommunications at least ten calendar days in advance of the placement and connection of the wiring. This time period may be changed by agreement of the provider of wireline telecommunications and the supervisor. The copy shall be maintained at the premises, available for inspection, so long as the wiring is used for telephone service.
