
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 68 - CONNECTION OF TERMINAL EQUIPMENT TO THE TELEPHONE NETWORK
##### Subpart D - Conditions for Terminal Equipment Approval
###### ยง 68.318 Additional limitations.
####### Registered terminal equipment with automatic dialing capability.

(b)(1) Automatic dialing to any individual number is limited to two successive attempts. Automatic dialing equipment which employ means for detecting both busy and reorder signals shall be permitted an additional 13 attempts if a busy or reorder signal is encountered on each attempt. The dialer shall be unable to re-attempt a call to the same number for at least 60 minutes following either the second or fifteenth successive attempt, whichever applies, unless the dialer is reactivated by either manual or external means. This rule does not apply to manually activated dialers that dial a number once following each activation.

(2) If means are employed for detecting both busy and reorder signals, the automatic dialing equipment shall return to its on-hook state within 15 seconds after detection of a busy or reorder signal.

(3) If the called party does not answer, the automatic dialer shall return to the on-hook state within 60 seconds of completion of dialing.

(4) If the called party answers, and the calling equipment does not detect a compatible terminal equipment at the called end, then the automatic dialing equipment shall be limited to one additional call which is answered. The automatic dialing equipment shall comply with paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section for additional call attempts that are not answered.

(5) Sequential dialers shall dial only once to any individual number before proceeding to dial another number.

(6) Network addressing signals shall be transmitted no earlier than:

(i) 70 ms after receipt of dial tone at the network demarcation point; or

(ii) 600 ms after automatically going off-hook (for single line equipment that does not use dial tone detectors); or

(iii) 70 ms after receipt of CO ground start at the network demarcation point.
