
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 69 - ACCESS CHARGES
##### Subpart B - Computation of Charges
###### ยง 69.104 End user common line for non-price cap incumbent local exchange carriers.
####### End User Common Line charge deaveraging.

(r)Beginning on January 1, 2002, non-price cap local exchange carriers may geographically deaverage End User Common Line charges subject to the following conditions.

(1) In order for a non-price cap local exchange carrier to be allowed to deaverage End User Common Line charges within a study area, the non-price cap local exchange carrier must have:

(i) State commission-approved geographically deaveraged rates for UNE loops within that study area; or

(ii) A universal service support disaggregation plan established pursuant to ยง 54.315 of this chapter.

(2) All geographic deaveraging of End User Common Line charges by customer class within a study area must be according to the state commission-approved UNE loop zone, or the universal service support disaggregation plan established pursuant to ยง 54.315 of this chapter.

(3) Within a given zone, Multi-line Business End User Common Line rates cannot fall below Residential and Single-Line Business rates.

(4) For any given class of customer in any given zone, the End User Common Line Charge in that zone must be greater than or equal to the End User Common Line charge in the zone with the next lower cost per line.

(5) A non-price cap local exchange carrier shall not receive more through deaveraged End User Common Line charges than it would have received if it had not deaveraged its End User Common Line charges.
