
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 69 - ACCESS CHARGES
##### Subpart C - Computation of Charges for Price Cap Local Exchange Carriers
###### § 69.152 End user common line for price cap local exchange carriers.

(a) A charge that is expressed in dollars and cents per line per month shall be assessed upon end users that subscribe to local exchange telephone service or Centrex service to the extent they do not pay carrier common line charges. A charge that is expressed in dollars and cents per line per month shall be assessed upon providers of public telephones. Such charge shall be assessed for each line between the premises of an end user, or public telephone location, and a Class 5 office that is or may be used for local exchange service transmissions.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The charge for each subscriber line associated with a public telephone shall be equal to the monthly charge computed in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.

(d)(1) Beginning July 1, 2000, in a study area that does not have deaveraged End User Common Line Charges, the maximum monthly charge for each primary residential or single-line business local exchange service subscriber line shall be the lesser of:

(i) The Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month as defined in § 61.3(d) of this chapter; or

(ii) The following:

(A) On July 1, 2000, $4.35.

(B) On July 1, 2001, $5.00.

(C) On July 1, 2002, $6.00.

(D) On July 1, 2003, $6.50.

(2) In the event that GDP-PI exceeds 6.5% or is less than 0%, the maximum monthly charge in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and the cap will be adjusted pursuant to § 61.45(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter.

(e)(1) Beginning July 1, 2000, in a study area that does not have deaveraged End User Common Line Charges, the maximum monthly charge for each non-primary residential local exchange service subscriber line shall be the lesser of:

(i) $7.00; or

(ii) The greater of:

(A) The rate as of June 30, 2000 less reductions needed to ensure over recovery of CMT Revenues does not occur; or

(B) The Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month as defined in § 61.3(d) of this chapter.

(2) In the event that GDP-PI is greater than 6.5% or is less than 0%, the maximum monthly charge in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section and the cap will be adjusted pursuant to § 61.45(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter.

(3) Where the local exchange carrier provides a residential line to another carrier so that the other carrier may resell that residential line to a residence that already receives a primary residential line, the local exchange carrier may collect the non-primary residential charge described in paragraph (e) of this section from the other carrier.

(f) The charge for each primary residential local exchange service subscriber line shall be the same as the charge for each single-line business local exchange service subscriber line.

(g) A line shall be deemed to be a residential subscriber line if the subscriber pays a rate for such line that is described as a residential rate in the local exchange service tariff.

(h) Effective July 1, 1999, only one of the residential subscriber lines a price cap local exchange carrier provides to a location shall be deemed to be a primary residential line.

(1) Effective July 1, 1999, for purposes of § 69.152(h) of this chapter, "residential subscriber line" includes residential lines that a price cap local exchange carrier provides to a competitive local exchange carrier that resells the line and on which the price cap local exchange carrier may assess access charges.

(2) Effective July 1, 1999, if a customer subscribes to residential lines from a price cap local exchange carrier and at least one reseller of the price cap local exchange carrier's lines, the line sold by the price cap local exchange carrier shall be the primary line, except that if a resold price cap LEC line is already the primary line, the resold line will remain the primary line should a price cap local exchange carrier subsequently sell an additional line to that residence.

(i) A line shall be deemed to be a single-line business subscriber line if the subscriber pays a rate that is not described as a residential rate in the local exchange service tariff and does not obtain more than one such line from a particular telephone company.

(j) No charge shall be assessed for any WATS access line.

(k)(1) Beginning on July 1, 2000, for any study area that does not have deaveraged End User Common Line charges and in the absence of voluntary reductions, the maximum monthly End User Common Line Charge for multi-line business lines will be the lesser of:

(i) $9.20; or

(ii) The greater of:

(A) The rate as of June 30, 2000, less reductions needed to ensure over recovery of CMT Revenues does not occur; or

(B) The Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month as defined in § 61.3(d) of this chapter.

(2) In the event that GDP-PI is greater than 6.5% or is less than 0%, the maximum monthly charge in paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section and the cap will be adjusted pursuant to § 61.45(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter.

(l)(1) Beginning January 1, 1998, local exchange carrier shall assess no more than one End User Common Line charge as calculated under the applicable method under paragraph (e) of this section for Basic Rate Interface integrated services digital network (ISDN) service.

(2) Local exchange carriers shall assess no more than five End User Common Line charges as calculated under paragraph (k) of this section for Primary Rate Interface ISDN service.

(m) In the event the local exchange carrier charges less than the maximum End User Common Line charge for any subscriber lines, the local exchange carrier may not recover the difference between the amount collected and the maximum from carrier common line charges or PICCs.

(n)-(p) [Reserved]
