
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter B - Common Carrier Services
#### PART 69 - ACCESS CHARGES
##### Subpart C - Computation of Charges for Price Cap Local Exchange Carriers
###### ยง 69.152 End user common line for price cap local exchange carriers.
####### Minimum charge.

(7)Except where a local exchange carrier chooses to lower the deaveraged End User Common Line charge through voluntary reductions, the minimum zone deaveraged End User Common Line charge in any zone in a study area is at least the Minimum End User Common Line charge. Minimum End User Common Line charge is Zone Average Revenue Per Line for the zone with the lowest Zone Average Revenue Per Line in that study area plus an amount per line calculated to recover the difference between Interstate Access Universal Service Support Per Line (as defined in ยง 54.807 of this chapter) multiplied by base period lines for the applicable customer class and zones receiving such support and Study Area Above Benchmark Revenues, first from Zone 1 until the End User Common Line charges in Zone 1 equal the End User Common Line charges in Zone 2, and then from lines in Zones 1 and 2 equally until the End User Common Line charges in those Zones reach Zone 3 (with all End User Common Line charges subject to the applicable residential and multi-line business lines nominal caps).

(i) For the purposes of this part, "Study Area Above Benchmark Revenues" is the sum of all Zone Above Benchmark Revenues.

(ii) For the purposes of this part, "Zone Above Benchmark Revenues" is calculated as follows:

Zone Above Benchmark Revenues is the sum of Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for Residential and Single-line Business lines and Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for Multi-line Business lines. Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for Residential and Single-line Business lines is, within each zone, (Zone Average Revenue Per Line minus $7.00) multiplied by all eligible telecommunications carrier Base Period Residential and Single-line Business lines times 12. If negative, the Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for Residential and Single-line Business lines for the zone is zero. Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for Multi-line Business lines is, within each zone,

(Zone Average Revenue Per Line minus $9.20) multiplied by all eligible telecommunications carrier zone Base Period Multi-line Business lines times 12. If negative, the Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for Multi-line Business lines for the zone is zero.
