
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.24 Broadcast facilities; showing required.

An authorization for a new AM broadcast station or increase in facilities of an existing station will be issued only after a satisfactory showing has been made in regard to the following, among others:

(a) That the proposed assignment will tend to effect a fair, efficient, and equitable distribution of radio service among the several states and communities.

(b) That a proposed new station (or a proposed change in the facilities of an authorized station) complies with the pertinent requirements of ยง 73.37 of this chapter.

(c) That the applicant is financially qualified to construct and operate the proposed station.

(d) That the applicant is legally qualified. That the applicant (or the person or persons in control of an applicant corporation or other organization) is of good character and possesses other qualifications sufficient to provide a satisfactory public service.

(e) That the technical equipment proposed, the location of the transmitter, and other technical phases of operation comply with the regulations governing the same, and the requirements of good engineering practice.

(f) That the facilities sought are subject to assignment as requested under existing international agreements and the rules and regulations of the Commission.
