
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.99 Presunrise service authorization (PSRA) and postsunset service authorization (PSSA).

(a) To provide maximum uniformity in early morning operation compatible with interference considerations, and to provide for additional service during early evening hours for Class D stations, provisions are made for presunrise service and postsunset service. The permissible power for presunrise or postsunset service authorizations shall not exceed 500 watts, or the authorized daytime or critical hours power (whichever is less). Calculation of the permissible power shall consider only co-channel stations for interference protection purposes.

(b) Presunrise service authorizations (PSRA) permit:

(1) Class D stations operating on Mexican, Bahamian, and Canadian priority Class A clear channels to commence PSRA operation at 6 a.m. local time and to continue such operation until the sunrise times specified in their basic instruments of authorization.

(2) Class D stations situated outside 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contours of co-channel U.S. Class A stations to commence PSRA operation at 6 a.m. local time and to continue such operation until sunrise times specified in their basic instruments of authorization.

(3) Class D stations located within co-channel 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contours of U.S. Class A stations, to commence PSRA operation either at 6 a.m. local time, or at sunrise at the nearest Class A station located east of the Class D station (whichever is later), and to continue such operation until the sunrise times specified in their basic instruments of authorization.

(4) Class B and Class D stations on regional channels to commence PSRA operation at 6 a.m. local time and to continue such operation until local sunrise times specified in their basic instruments of authorization.

(c) Extended Daylight Saving Time Pre-Sunrise Authorizations:

(1) Between the first Sunday in April and the end of the month of April, Class D stations will be permitted to conduct pre-sunrise operation beginning at 6 a.m. local time with a maximum power of 500 watts (not to exceed the station's regular daytime or critical hours power), reduced as necessary to comply with the following requirements:

(i) Full protection is to be provided as specified in applicable international agreements.

(ii) Protection is to be provided to the 0.5 mV/m groundwave signals of co-channel U.S. Class A stations; protection to the 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contours of these stations is not required.

(iii) In determining the protection to be provided, the effect of each interfering signal will be evaluated separately. The presence of interference from other stations will not reduce or eliminate the required protection.

(iv) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, the stations will be permitted to operate with a minimum power of 10 watts unless a lower power is required by international agreement.

(2) The Commission will issue appropriate authorizations to Class D stations not previously eligible to operate during this period. Class D stations authorized to operate during this presunrise period may continue to operate under their current authorization.

(d) Postsunset service authorizations (PSSA) permit:

(1) Class D stations located on Mexican, Bahamian, and Canadian priority Class A clear channels to commence PSSA operation at sunset times specified in their basic instruments of authorization and to continue for two hours after such specified times.

(2) Class D stations situated outside 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contours of co-channel U.S. Class A stations to commence PSSA operations at sunset times specified in their basic instruments of authorization and to continue for two hours after such specified times.

(3) Class D stations located within co-channel 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contours of U.S. Class A stations to commence PSSA operation at sunset times specified in their basic instruments of authorization and to continue such operation until two hours past such specified times, or until sunset at the nearest Class A station located west of the Class D station, whichever is earlier. Class D stations located west of the Class A station do not qualify for PSSA operation.

(4) Class D stations on regional channels to commence PSSA operation at sunset times specified on their basic instruments of authorization and to continue such operation until two hours past such specified times.

(e) Procedural Matters. (1) Applications for PSRA and PSSA operation are not required. Instead, the FCC will calculate the periods of such operation and the power to be used pursuant to the provisions of this section and the protection requirements contained in applicable international agreements. Licensees will be notified of permissible power and times of operation. Presunrise and Postsunset service authority permits operation on a secondary basis and does not confer license rights. No request for such authority need be filed. However, stations intending to operate PSRA or PSSA shall submit by letter, signed as specified in § 73.3513, the following information:

(i) Licensee name, station call letters and station location,

(ii) Indication as to whether PSRA operation, PSSA operation, or both, is intended by the station,

(iii) A description of the method whereby any necessary power reduction will be achieved.

(2) Upon submission of the required information, such operation may begin without further authority.

(f) Technical criteria. Calculations to determine whether there is objectionable interference will be determined in accordance with the AM Broadcast Technical Standards, §§ 73.182 through 73.190, and applicable international agreements. Calculations will be performed using daytime antenna systems, or critical hours antenna systems when specified on the license. In performing calculations to determine assigned power and times for commencement of PSRA and PSSA operation, the following standards and criteria will be used:

(1) Class D stations operating in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (d)(1), and (d)(2) of this section are required to protect the nighttime 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contours of co-channel Class A stations. Where a 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave signal from the Class A station is not produced, the 0.5 mV/m groundwave contour shall be protected.

(2) Class D stations are required to fully protect foreign Class B and Class C stations when operating PSRA and PSSA; Class D stations operating PSSA are required to fully protect U.S. Class B stations. For purposes of determining protection, the nighttime RSS limit will be used in the determination of maximum permissible power.
