
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.99 Presunrise service authorization (PSRA) and postsunset service authorization (PSSA).
####### Estimated Ground Conductivity in the United States.

(3) Class D stations operating in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section are required to restrict maximum 10% skywave radiation at any point on the daytime 0.1 mV/m groundwave contour of a co-channel Class A station to 25 µV/m. The location of the 0.1 mV/m contour of the Class A station will be determined by use of Figure M3,When the 0.1 mV/m contour extends beyond the national boundary, the international boundary shall be considered the 0.1 mV/m contour.

(4) Class B and Class D stations on regional channels operating PSRA and PSSA (Class D only) are required to provide full protection to co-channel foreign Class B and Class C stations.

(5) Class D stations on regional channels operating PSSA beyond 6 p.m. local time are required to fully protect U.S. Class B stations.

(6) The protection that Class D stations on regional channels are required to provide when operating PSSA until 6 p.m. local time is as follows.

(i) For the first half-hour of PSSA operation, protection will be calculated at sunset plus 30 minutes at the site of the Class D station;

(ii) For the second half-hour of PSSA operation, protection will be calculated at sunset plus one hour at the site of the Class D station;

(iii) For the second hour of PSSA operation, protection will be calculated at sunset plus two hours at the site of the Class D station;

(iv) Minimum powers during the period until 6 p.m. local time shall be permitted as follows:

(7) For protection purposes, the nighttime 25% RSS limit will be used in the determination of maximum permissible power.

(g) Calculations made under paragraph (d) of this section may not take outstanding PSRA or PSSA operations into account, nor will the grant of a PSRA or PSSA confer any degree of interference protection on the holder thereof.

(h) Operation under a PSRA or PSSA is not mandatory, and will not be included in determining compliance with the requirements of § 73.1740. To the extent actually undertaken, however, presunrise operation will be considered by the FCC in determining overall compliance with past programming representations and station policy concerning commercial matter.

(i) The PSRA or PSSA is secondary to the basic instrument of authorization with which it is to be associated. The PSRA or PSSA may be suspended, modified, or withdrawn by the FCC without prior notice or right to hearing, if necessary to resolve interference conflicts, to implement agreements with foreign governments, or in other circumstances warranting such action. Moreover, the PSRA or PSSA does not extend beyond the term of the basic authorization.

(j) The Commission will periodically recalculate maximum permissible power and times for commencing PSRA and PSSA for each Class D station operating in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The Commission will calculate the maximum power at which each individual station may conduct presunrise operations during extended daylight saving time and shall issue conforming authorizations. These original notifications and subsequent notifications should be associated with the station's authorization. Upon notification of new power and time of commencing operation, affected stations shall make necessary adjustments within 30 days.

(k) A PSRA and PSSA does not require compliance with §§ 73.45, 73.182 and 73.1560 where the operation might otherwise be considered as technically substandard. Further, the requirements of paragraphs (a)(5), (b)(2), (c)(2), and (d)(2) of § 73.1215 concerning the scale ranges of transmission system indicating instruments are waived for PSRA and PSSA operation except for the radio frequency ammeters used in determining antenna input power.

(1) A station having an antenna monitor incapable of functioning at the authorized PSRA and PSSA power when using a directional antenna shall take the monitor reading using an unmodulated carrier at the authorized daytime power immediately prior to commencing PSRA or PSSA operations. Special conditions as the FCC may deem appropriate may be included for PSRA or PSSA to insure operation of the transmitter and associated equipment in accordance with all phases of good engineering practice.
