
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.150 Directional antenna systems.
####### E

(ii) Where the orthogonal addition of the factor Q to E(,)results in a standard pattern whose minimum fields are lower than those found necessary or desirable, these fields may be increased by appropriate adjustment of the parameters of(,).

(2) All patterns shall be computed for integral multiples of five degrees, beginning with zero degrees representing true north, and, shall be plotted to the largest scale possible on unglazed letter-size paper (main engraving approximately 7&#x2032; x 10&#x2032;) using only scale divisions and subdivisions of 1,2,2.5, or 5 times 10. The horizontal plane pattern shall be plotted on polar coordinate paper, with the zero degree point corresponding to true north. Patterns for elevation angles above the horizontal plane may be plotted in polar or rectangular coordinates, with the pattern for each angle of elevation on a separate page. Rectangular plots shall begin and end at true north, with all azimuths labelled in increments of not less than 20 degrees. If a rectangular plot is used, the ordinate showing the scale for radiation may be logarithmic. Such patterns for elevation angles above the horizontal plane need be submitted only upon specific request by Commission staff. Minor lobe and null detail occurring between successive patterns for specific angles of elevation need not be submitted. Values of field strength on any pattern less than ten percent of the maximum field strength plotted on that pattern shall be shown on an enlarged scale. Rectangular plots with a logarithmic ordinate need not utilize an expanded scale unless necessary to show clearly the minor lobe and null detail.
