
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.150 Directional antenna systems.
####### i.e.

(ii) Type of each element (, guyed or self-supporting, uniform cross section or tapered (specifying base dimensions), grounded or insulated, etc.)

(iii) Details of top loading, or sectionalizing, if any.

(iv) Height of radiating portion of each element in feet (height above base insulator, or base, if grounded).

(v) Overall height of each element above ground.

(vi) Sketch of antenna site, indicating its dimensions, the location of the antenna elements, thereon, their spacing from each other, and their orientation with respect to each other and to true north, the number and length of the radials in the ground system about each element, the dimensions of ground screens, if any, and bonding between towers and between radial systems.

(5) Electrical description of the array, showing:

(i) Relative amplitudes of the fields of the array elements.

(ii) Relative time phasing of the fields of the array elements in degrees leading [ + ] or lagging [-].

(iii) Space phasing between elements in degrees.

(iv) Where waiver of the content of this section is requested or upon request of the Commission staff, all assumptions made and the basis therefor, particularly with respect to the electrical height of the elements, current distribution along elements, efficiency of each element, and ground conductivity.
