
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.150 Directional antenna systems.
####### E,E

(v) Where waiver of the content of this section is requested, or upon request of the Commission staff, those formulas used for computing(&#x3C6;,&#x3B8;)and(&#x3C6;,&#x3B8;). Complete tabulation of final computed data used in plotting patterns, including data for the determination of the RMS value of the pattern, and the RSS field of the array.

(6) The values used in specifying the parameters which describe the array must be specified to no greater precision than can be achieved with available monitoring equipment. Use of greater precision raises a rebuttable presumption of instability of the array. Following are acceptable values of precision; greater precision may be used only upon showing that the monitoring equipment to be installed gives accurate readings with the specified precision.

(i) Field Ratio: 3 significant figures.

(ii) Phasing: to the nearest 0.1 degree.

(iii) Orientation (with respect to a common point in the array, or with respect to another tower): to the nearest 0.1 degree.

(iv) Spacing (with respect to a common point in the array, or with respect to another tower): to the nearest 0.1 degree.

(v) Electrical Height (for all parameters listed in Section 73.160): to the nearest 0.1 degree.

(vi) Theoretical RMS (to determine pattern size): 4 significant figures.

(vii) Additional requirements relating to modified standard patterns appear in ยง 73.152(c)(3) and (c)(4).

(7) Any additional information required by the application form.

(c) Sample calculations for the theoretical and standard radiation follow. Assume a five kilowatt (nominal power) station with a theoretical RMS of 685 mV/m at one kilometer. Assume that it is an in-line array consisting of three towers. Assume the following parameters for the towers:

Assume that tower 1 is a typical tower with an electrical height of 120 degrees. Assume that tower 2 is top-loaded in accordance with the method described in ยง 73.160(b)(2) where A is 120 electrical degrees and B is 20 electrical degrees. Assume that tower 3 is sectionalized in accordance with the method described in ยง 73.160(b)(3) where A is 120 electrical degrees, B is 20 electrical degrees, C is 220 electrical degrees, and D is 15 electrical degrees.

The multiplying constant will be 323.6.

Following is a tabulation of part of the theoretical pattern:

If we further assume that the station has a standard pattern, we find that Q, for &#x3B8; = 0, is 22.36.

Following is a tabulation of part of the standard pattern:

The RMS of the standard pattern in the horizontal plane is 719.63 mV/m at one kilometer.
