
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.151 Field strength measurements to establish performance of directional antennas.

The performance of a directional antenna may be verified either by field strength measurement or by computer modeling and sampling system verification.

(a) In addition to the information required by the license application form, the following showing must be submitted to establish, for each mode of directional operation, that the effective measured field strength (RMS) at 1 kilometer (km) is not less than 85 percent of the effective measured field strength (RMS) specified for the standard radiation pattern, or less than that specified in ยง 73.189(b) for the class of station involved, whichever is the higher value, and that the measured field strength at 1 km in any direction does not exceed the field shown in that direction on the standard radiation pattern for that mode of directional operation:

(1) A tabulation of inverse field strengths in the horizontal plane at 1 km, as determined from field strength measurements taken and analyzed in accordance with ยง 73.186, and a statement of the effective measured field strength (RMS). Measurements shall be made in the following directions:

(i) Those specified in the instrument of authorization.

(ii) In major lobes. Generally, one radial is sufficient to establish a major lobe; however, additional radials may be required.

(iii) Along additional radials to establish the shape of the pattern. In the case of a relatively simple directional antenna pattern, a total of six radials is sufficient. If two radials would be more than 90&#xB0; apart, then an additional radial must be specified within that arc. When more complicated patterns are involved, that is, patterns having several or sharp lobes or nulls, measurements shall be taken along as many as 12 radials to definitely establish the pattern(s). Pattern symmetry may be assumed for complex patterns which might otherwise require measurements on more than 12 radials.

(2) A tabulation of:

(i) The phase difference of the current in each element with respect to the reference element, and whether the current leads (+) or lags (-) the current in the reference element, as indicated by the station's antenna monitor.

(ii) The ratio of the amplitude of the radio frequency current in each element to the current in the reference element, as indicated on the station's antenna monitor.

(3) A monitoring point shall be established on each radial for which the construction permit specifies a limit. The following information shall be supplied for each monitoring point:

(i) Measured field strength.

(ii) An accurate and detailed description of each monitoring point. The description may include, but shall not be limited to, geographic coordinates determined with a Global Positioning System receiver.

(iii) Clear photographs taken with the field strength meter in its measuring position and with the camera so located that its field of view takes in as many pertinent landmarks as possible.

(b) For stations authorized to operate with simple directional antenna systems (e.g., two towers) in the 1605-1705 kHz band, the measurements to support pattern RMS compliance referred to in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(1)(iii) of this section are not required. In such cases, measured radials are required only in the direction of short-spaced allotments, or in directions specifically identified by the Commission.
