
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.152 Modification of directional antenna data.

(a) If, after construction and final adjustment of a directional antenna, a measured inverse distance field in any direction exceeds the field shown on the standard radiation pattern for the pertinent mode of directional operation, an application shall be filed, specifying a modified standard radiation pattern and/or such changes as may be required in operating parameters so that all measured effective fields will be contained within the modified standard radiation pattern. Permittees may also file an application specifying a modified standard radiation pattern, even when measured radiation has not exceeded the standard pattern, in order to allow additional tolerance for monitoring point limits.

(b) If, following a partial proof of performance, a licensee discovers that radiation exceeds the standard pattern on one or more radials because of circumstances beyond the licensee's control, a modified standard pattern may be requested. The licensee shall submit, concurrently, Forms 301-AM and 302-AM. Form 301-AM shall include an exhibit demonstrating that no interference would result from the augmentation. Form 302-AM shall include the results of the partial proof, along with full directional and nondirectional measurements on the radial(s) to be augmented, including close-in points and a determination of the inverse distance field in accordance with ยง 73.186.

(c) Normally, a modified standard pattern is not acceptable at the initial construction permit stage, before a proof-of-performance has been completed. However, in certain cases, where it can be shown that modification is necessary, a modified standard pattern will be acceptable at the initial construction permit stage. Following is a non-inclusive list of items to be considered in determining whether a modification is acceptable at the initial construction permit stage:

(1) When the proposed pattern is essentially the same as an existing pattern at the same antenna site. (e.g., A DA-D station proposing to become a DA-1 station.)

(2) Excessive reradiating structures, which should be shown on a plat of the antenna site and surrounding area.

(3) Other environmental factors; they should be fully described.

(4) Judgment and experience of the engineer preparing the engineering portion of the application. This must be supported with a full discussion of the pertinent factors.

(d) The following general principles shall govern the situations in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) in this section:

(1) Where a measured field in any direction will exceed the authorized standard pattern, the license application may specify the level at which the input power to the antenna shall be limited to maintain the measured field at a value not in excess of that shown on the standard pattern, and shall specify the common point current corresponding to this power level. This value of common point current will be specified on the license for that station.

(2) Where any excessive field does not result in objectionable interference to another station, a modification of construction permit application may be submitted with a modified standard pattern encompassing all augmented fields. The modified standard pattern shall supersede the previously submitted standard radiation pattern for that station in the pertinent mode of directional operation. Following are the possible methods of creating a modified standard pattern:
