
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.152 Modification of directional antenna data.
####### i.e.

(i) The modified pattern may be computed by making the entire pattern larger than the original pattern (, have a higher RMS value) if the measured fields systematically exceed the confines of the original pattern. The larger pattern shall be computed by using a larger multiplying constant, k, in the theoretical pattern equation (Eq. 1) in ยง 73.150(b)(1).

(ii) Where the measured field exceeds the pattern in discrete directions, but objectionable interference does not result, the pattern may be expanded over sectors including these directions. When this "augmentation" is desired, it shall be achieved by application of the following equation:

(iii) A combination of paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii), of this section, with (d)(2)(i) being applied before (d)(2)(ii) is applied.

(iv) Where augmentation is allowable under the terms of this section, the requested amount of augmentation shall be centered upon the measured radial and shall not exceed the following:

(A) The actual measured inverse distance field value, where the radial does not involve a required monitoring point.

(B) 120% of the actual measured inverse field value, where the radial has a monitoring point required by the instrument of authorization.
