
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.152 Modification of directional antenna data.
####### i.e.

(3) A Modified Standard Pattern shall be specifically labeled as such, and shall be plotted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of ยง 73.150. The effective (RMS) field strength in the horizontal plane of E(&#x3B1;)E(&#x3B1;)and the root sum square (RSS) value of the inverse fields of the array elements (derived from the equation for E(&#x3B1;)), shall be tabulated on the page on which the horizontal plane pattern is plotted. Where sector augmentation has been employed in designing the modified pattern, the direction of maximum augmentation (, the central azimuth of augmentation) shall be indicated on the horizontal plane pattern for each augmented sector, and the limits of each sector shall also be shown. Field values within an augmented sector, computed prior to augmentation, shall be depicted by a broken line.

(4) There shall be submitted, for each modified standard pattern, complete tabulations of final computed data used in plotting the pattern. In addition, for each augmented sector, the central azimuth of augmentation, span, and radiation at the central azimuth of augmentation (E(&#x3B1;)) shall be tabulated.

(5) The parameters used in computing the modified standard pattern shall be specified with realistic precision. Following is a list of the maximum acceptable precision:

(i) Central Azimuth of Augmentation: to the nearest 0.1 degree.

(ii) Span: to the nearest 0.1 degree.

(iii) Radiation at Central Azimuth of Augmentation: 4 significant figures.

(e) Sample calculations for a modified standard pattern follow. First, assume the existing standard pattern in ยง 73.150(c). Then, assume the following augmentation parameters:

Following is a tabulation of part of the modified standard pattern:
