
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart A - AM Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.182 Engineering standards of allocation.

(a) Sections 73.21 to 73.37, inclusive, govern allocation of facilities in the AM broadcast band 535-1705 kHz. § 73.21 establishes three classes of channels in this band, namely, clear, regional and local. The classes and power of AM broadcast stations which will be assigned to the various channels are set forth in § 73.21. The classifications of the AM broadcast stations are as follows:

(1) Class A stations operate on clear channels with powers no less than 10kW nor greater than 50 kW. These stations are designed to render primary and secondary service over an extended area, with their primary services areas protected from objectionable interference from other stations on the same and adjacent channels. Their secondary service areas are protected from objectionable interference from co-channel stations. For purposes of protection, Class A stations may be divided into two groups, those located in any of the contiguous 48 States and those located in Alaska in accordance with § 73.25.

(i) The mainland U.S. Class A stations are those assigned to the channels allocated by § 73.25. The power of these stations shall be 50 kW. The Class A stations in this group are afforded protection as follows:

(A) Daytime. To the 0.1 mV/m groundwave contour from stations on the same channel, and to the 0.5 mV/m groundwave contour from stations on adjacent channels.

(B) Nighttime. To the 0.5 mV/m-50% skywave contour from stations on the same channels.

(ii) Class A stations in Alaska operate on the channels allocated by § 73.25 with a minimum power of 10 kW, a maximum power of 50 kW and an antenna efficiency of 215 mV/m/kW at 1 kilometer. Stations operating on these channels in Alaska which have not been designated as Class A stations in response to licensee request will continue to be considered as Class B stations. During daytime hours a Class A station in Alaska is protected to the 100 µV/m groundwave contour from co-channel stations. During nighttime hours, a Class A station in Alaska is protected to the 100 µV/m-50 percent skywave contour from co-channel stations. The 0.5 mV/m groundwave contour is protected both daytime and nighttime from stations on adjacent channels.

(2) Class B stations are stations which operate on clear and regional channels with powers not less than 0.25 kW nor more than 50 kW. These stations render primary service only, the area of which depends on their geographical location, power, and frequency. It is recommended that Class B stations be located so that the interference received from other stations will not limit the service area to a groundwave contour value greater than 2.0 mV/m nighttime and to the 0.5 mV/m groundwave contour daytime, which are the values for the mutual protection between this class of stations and other stations of the same class.

(3) Class C stations operate on local channels, normally rendering primary service to a community and the suburban or rural areas immediately contiguous thereto, with powers not less than 0.25 kW, nor more than 1 kW, except as provided in § 73.21(c)(1). Such stations are normally protected to the daytime 0.5 mV/m contour. On local channels the separation required for the daytime protection shall also determine the nighttime separation. Where directional antennas are employed daytime by Class C stations operating with more than 0.25 kW power, the separations required shall in no case be less than those necessary to afford protection, assuming nondirectional operation with 0.25 kW. In no case will 0.25 kW or greater nighttime power be authorized to a station unable to operate nondirectionally with a power of 0.25 kW during daytime hours. The actual nighttime limitation will be calculated. For nighttime protection purposes, Class C stations in the 48 contiguous United States may assume that stations in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands operating on 1230, 1240, 1340, 1400, 1450, and 1490 kHz are Class C stations.

(4) Class D stations operate on clear and regional channels with daytime powers of not less than 0.25 kW (or equivalent RMS field of 107.5 mV/m at 1 kilometer if less than 0.25 kW) and not more than 50 kW. Class D stations that have previously received nighttime authority to operate with powers of less 0.25 kW (or equivalent RMS fields of less than 107.5 mV/m at 1 kilometer) are not required to provide nighttime coverage in accordance with § 73.24(i) and are not protected from interference during nighttime hours. Such nighttime authority is permitted on the basis of full nighttime protection being afforded to all Class A and Class B stations.

(b) When a station is already limited by interference from other stations to a contour value greater than that normally protected for its class, the individual received limits shall be the established standard for such station with respect to interference from each other station.
