
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart B - FM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.211 Power and antenna height requirements.
####### Minimum requirements.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(2) of this section, FM stations must operate with a minimum effective radiated power (ERP) as follows:

(i) The minimum ERP for Class A stations is 0.1 kW.

(ii) The ERP for Class B1 stations must exceed 6 kW.

(iii) The ERP for Class B stations must exceed 25 kW.

(iv) The ERP for Class C3 stations must exceed 6 kW.

(v) The ERP for Class C2 stations must exceed 25 kW.

(vi) The ERP for Class C1 stations must exceed 50 kW.

(vii) The minimum ERP for Class C and C0 stations is 100 kW.

(2) Class C0 stations must have an antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) of at least 300 meters (984 feet). Class C stations must have an antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) of at least 451 meters (1480 feet).

(3) Stations of any class except Class A may have an ERP less than that specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that the reference distance, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, exceeds the distance to the class contour for the next lower class. Class A stations may have an ERP less than 100 watts provided that the reference distance, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, equals or exceeds 6 kilometers.
