
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart B - FM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.211 Power and antenna height requirements.
####### Maximum limits.

(b)(1) Except for stations located in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands, the maximum ERP in any direction, reference HAAT, and distance to the class contour for each FM station class are listed below:

(i) The reference distance of a station is obtained by finding the predicted distance to the 1mV/m contour using Figure 1 of ยง 73.333 and then rounding to the nearest kilometer. Antenna HAAT is determined using the procedure in ยง 73.313. If the HAAT so determined is less than 30 meters (100 feet), a HAAT of 30 meters must be used when finding the predicted distance to the 1 mV/m contour.

(ii) If a station's ERP is equal to the maximum for its class, its antenna HAAT must not exceed the reference HAAT, regardless of the reference distance. For example, a Class A station operating with 6 kW ERP may have an antenna HAAT of 100 meters, but not 101 meters, even though the reference distance is 28 km in both cases.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, no station will be authorized in Zone I or I-A with an ERP equal to 50 kW and a HAAT exceeding 150 meters. No station will be authorized in Zone II with an ERP equal to 100 kW and a HAAT exceeding 600 meters.

(2) If a station has an antenna HAAT greater than the reference HAAT for its class, its ERP must be lower than the class maximum such that the reference distance does not exceed the class contour distance. If the antenna HAAT is so great that the station's ERP must be lower than the minimum ERP for its class (specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section), that lower ERP will become the minimum for that station.

(3) For stations located in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands, the maximum ERP in any direction, reference HAAT, and distance to the class contour for each FM station class are listed below:
