
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart B - FM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.267 Determining operating power.

(a) The operating power of each FM station is to be determined by either the direct or indirect method.

(b) Direct method. The direct method of power determination for an FM station uses the indications of a calibrated transmission line meter (responsive to relative voltage, current, or power) located at the RF output terminals of the transmitter. This meter must be calibrated whenever there is any indication that the calibration is inaccurate or whenever any component of the metering circuit is repaired or replaced. The calibration must cover, as a minimum, the range from 90% to 105% of authorized power. The meter calibration may be checked by measuring the power at the transmitter terminals while either:

(1) Operating the transmitter into the transmitting antenna, and determining actual operating power by the indirect method described in ยง 73.267(c); or

(2) Operating the transmitter into a load (of substantially zero reactance and a resistance equal to the transmission line characteristic impedance) and using an electrical device (within +/-5% accuracy) or temperature and coolant flow indicator (within +/-4% accuracy) to determine the power.

(3) The calibration must cover, as a minimum, the range from 90% to 105% of authorized power and the meter must provide clear indications which will permit maintaining the operating power within the prescribed tolerance or the meter shall be calibrated to read directly in power units.
