
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart B - FM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.314 Field strength measurements.
####### Method of reporting measurements.

(3)A report of measurements to the Commission shall be submitted in affidavit form, in triplicate, and should contain the following information:

(i) A map of the community showing each actual measuring location, specifically identifying the points at which mobile runs were made.

(ii) A table keyed to the above map, showing the field strength at each measuring point, reduced to dBu for the actual effective radiated power of the station. Weather, date, and time of each measurement shall be indicated.

(iii) Notes describing each measuring location.

(iv) A topographic map of the largest available scale on which are marked the community and the transmitter site of the station whose signals have been measured, which includes all areas on or near the direct path of signal propagation.

(v) Computations of the mean and standard deviation of all measured field strengths, or a graph on which the distribution of measured field strength values is plotted.

(vi) A list of calibrated equipment used for the measurements, which for each instrument, specifies its manufacturer, type, serial number and rated accuracy, and the date of its most recent calibration by the manufacturer, or by a laboratory. Complete details of any instrument not of standard manufacture shall be submitted.

(vii) A detailed description of the procedure employed in the calibration of the measuring equipment, including field strength meters, measuring antenna, and connecting cable.
