
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart B - FM Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.319 FM multiplex subcarrier technical standards.
####### Subcarrier injection.

(d)(1) During monophonic program transmissions, modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers may not exceed 30% referenced to 75 kHz modulation deviation. However, the modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers above 75 kHz may not modulate the carrier by more than 10%.

(2) During stereophonic program transmissions, modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers may not exceed 20% referenced to 75 kHz modulation deviation. However, the modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers above 75 kHz may not modulate the carrier by more than 10%.

(3) During periods when no broadcast program service is transmitted, modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers may not exceed 30% referenced to 75 kHz modulation deviation. However, the modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers above 75 kHz may not modulate the carrier by more than 10%.

(4) Total modulation of the carrier wave during transmission of multiplex subcarriers used for subsidiary communications services must comply with the provisions § 73.1570(b).

(e) Subcarrier generators may be installed and used with a type accepted FM broadcast transmitter without specific authorization from the FCC provided the generator can be connected to the transmitter without requiring any mechanical or electrical modifications in the transmitter FM exciter circuits.

(f) Stations installing multiplex subcarrier transmitting equipment must ensure the proper suppression of spurious or harmonic radiations. See §§ 73.317, 73.1590 and 73.1690. If the subcarrier operation causes the station's transmissions not to comply with the technical provisions for FM broadcast stations or causes harmful interference to other communication services, the licensee or permittee must correct the problem promptly or cease operation. The licensee may be required to verify the corrective measures with supporting data. Such data must be retained at the station and be made available to the FCC upon request.
