
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart D - Noncommercial Educational FM Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.525 TV Channel 6 protection.
####### Existing NCE-FM stations.

(b)(1) A NCE-FM station license authorized to operate on channels 201-220 as of December 31, 1984, or a permittee, granted a construction permit for a NCE-FM station as of December 31, 1984, are not subject to this section unless they propose either:

(i) To make changes in operating facilities or location which will increase predicted interference as calculated under paragraph (e) of this section to TV Channel 6 reception in any direction; or,

(ii) To increase its ratio of vertically polarized to horizontally polarized transmissions.

(2) Applicants must comply with the provision of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section unless the application for modification demonstrates that, for each person predicted to receive new interference as a result of the change, existing predicted interference to two person will be eliminated. Persons predicted to receive new interference are those located outside the area predicted to receive interference from the station's currently authorized facilities ("existing predicted interference area") but within the area predicted to receive interference from the proposed facilities ("proposed predicted interference area"). Persons for whom predicted interference will be eliminated are those located within the existing predicted interference area and outside the proposed predicted interference area.

(i) In making this calculation, the provisions contained at paragraph (e) will be used except as modified by paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(ii) The following adjustment to the population calculation may be made: up to 1,000 persons may be subtracted from the population predicted to receive new interference if, for each person substracted, the applicant effectively installs two filters within 90 days after commencing program tests with the proposed facilities and, no later than 45 days thereafter, provides the affected TV Channel 6 station (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) with a certification containing sufficient information to permit verification of such installation. The required number of filters will be installed on television receivers located within the predicted interference area; provided that half of the installations are within the area predicted to receive new interference.

(3) Where an NCE-FM applicant wishes to operate with facilities in excess of that permitted under the provisions of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, by proposing to use vertically polarized transmissions only, or to increase its ratio of vertically to horizontally polarized transmissions, the affected TV Channel 6 station must be given an option to pay for the required antenna and, if it takes that option, the NCE-FM vertically polarized component of power will be one half (-3 dB) that which would be allowed by the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(4) Applications for modification will include a certification that the applicant has given early written notice of the proposed modification to all affected TV Channel 6 stations (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section).

(5) Where the NCE-FM station demonstrates in its application that it must make an involuntary modification (e.g., due to loss of its transmitter site) that would not otherwise be permitted under this section, its application will be considered on a case-by-case basis. In such cases, the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section do not apply.
