
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.622 Digital television table of allotments.
####### Availability of channels.,Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration of the Sixth Report and Order,Memorandum Opinion and Order,https://www.fcc.gov.

(c)(1)Applications may be filed to construct DTV broadcast stations only on the channels designated in the DTV Table of Allotments set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, and only in the communities listed therein. Applications that fail to comply with this requirement, whether or not accompanied by a petition to amend the DTV Table, will not be accepted for filing. However, applications specifying channels that accord with publicly announced FCC Orders changing the DTV Table of Allotments will be accepted for filing even if such applications are tendered before the effective dates of such channel change. An application for authority to construct a DTV station on an allotment in the initial DTV table may only be filed by the licensee or permittee of the analog TV station with which that initial allotment is paired, as set forth in Appendix B of thein MM Docket 87-268, FCC 98-24 () adopted January 29, 1998. Copies of the Memorandum Opinion and Order are available for public inspection through the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center. This document is also available on the FCC homepage atApplications may also be filed to implement an exchange of channel allotments between two or more licensees or permittees of analog TV stations in the same community, the same market, or in adjacent markets provided, however, that the other requirements of this section and ยง 73.623 are met with respect to each such application.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an application may be filed for a channel or community not listed in the DTV Table of Allotments if it is consistent with the rules and policies established in the Third Report and Order in WT Docket 99-168 (FCC 01-25), adopted January 18, 2001. Where such a request is approved, the Media Bureau will change the DTV Table of Allotments to reflect that approval.
