
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### General
####### ยง 0.401 Location of Commission offices.

The Commission maintains several offices and receipt locations. Applications and other filings not submitted in accordance with the addresses or locations set forth below will be returned to the applicant without processing. When an application or other filing does not involve the payment of a fee, the appropriate filing address or location is established elsewhere in the rules for the various types of submissions made to the Commission. The public should identify the correct filing location by reference to these rules. Applications or submissions requiring fees must be submitted in accordance with ยง 0.401(b) of the rules irrespective of the addresses that may be set out elsewhere in the rules for other submissions.

(a) General correspondence, as well as applications and filings not requiring the fees set forth at part 1, subpart G of the rules (or not claiming an exemption, waiver or deferral from the fee requirement), should be delivered to one of the following locations.

(1) The main office of the Commission is located at 45 L Street NE, Washington, DC 20554.

(i) Documents submitted by mail to this office should be addressed to: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554.

(ii) All hand-carried documents should be addressed to the Commission's Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission and delivered to 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis Junction, MD 20701.

(iii) Electronic filings, where required, recommended, or permitted, must be transmitted as specified by the Commission or relevant Bureau or Office.

(2) The Commission's laboratory is located near Columbia, Maryland. The mailing address is:

(3) The Commission also maintains offices at Gettysburg, PA.

(i) The address of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau's licensing facilities are:

(A) Federal Communications Commission, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325-7245; and

(B) Federal Communications Commission, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, Washington, DC 20554.

(ii) The mailing address of the International Telecommunications Section of the Finance Branch is: Federal Communications Commission, P.O. Box IT-70, Gettysburg, PA 17326.

(4) For the locations of the field offices, contact the Enforcement Bureau.

(5) The location of the Office of General Counsel is 45 L Street NE, Washington, DC 20554.

(b) Applications or filings requiring the fees set forth at part 1, subpart G of the rules must be delivered through the appropriate electronic filing system with the correct fee and completed Fee Form attached to the application or filing, unless otherwise directed by the Commission. In the case of any conflict between this rule subpart and other rules establishing filing locations for submissions subject to a fee, this subpart shall govern.

(1) Applications and filings submitted by mail shall be submitted following the procedures set forth by the Commission in the appropriate fee rules.

(2) Alternatively, applications and other filings may be sent electronically via the Universal Licensing System (ULS) or the Cable Operations and Licensing System (COALS) as appropriate for use of those systems.
