
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.623 DTV applications and changes to DTV allotments.
####### Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration of the Sixth Report and Order,OET Bulletin No. 69,,FCC Home Page,http://www.fcc.gov.

(2) Requests filed pursuant to this paragraph (c) must demonstrate that the requested change would not result in more than an additional 2 percent the population served by another station being subject to interference; provided, however, that no new interference may be caused to any station that already experiences interference to 10 percent or more of its population or that would result in a station receiving interference in excess of 10 percent of its population. The station population values for existing NTSC service and DTV service contained in Appendix B of thein MM Docket No. 87-268, FCC 98-24, adopted January 29, 1998, referenced in § 73.622(c), are to be used for the purposes of determining whether a power increase or other change is permissible under this de minimis standard. For evaluating compliance with this requirement, interference to populations served is to be predicted based on the procedure set forth inincluding population served within service areas determined in accordance with § 73.622(e), consideration of whether F(50,10) undesired signals will exceed the following desired-to-undesired (D/U) signal ratios, assumed use of a directional receiving antenna, and use of the terrain dependent Longley-Rice point-to-point propagation model. Copies of OET Bulletin No. 69 may be inspected during normal business hours at the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, located at the address of the FCC's main office indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a). These documents are also available through the Internet on theatThe threshold levels at which interference is considered to occur are:

(3) The values in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for co-channel interference to DTV service are only valid at locations where the signal-to-noise ratio is 28 dB or greater for interference from DTV and 25 dB or greater for interference from analog TV service. At the edge of the noise-limited service area, where the signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio is 16 dB, these values are 21 dB and 23 dB for interference from analog TV and DTV, respectively. At locations where the S/N ratio is greater than 16 dB but less than 28 dB, D/U values for co-channel interference to DTV are as follows:

(i) For DTV-to-DTV interference, the minimum D/U ratios are computed from the following formula:

(ii) For analog-to-DTV interference, the minimum D/U ratios are found from the following Table (for values between measured values, linear interpolation can be used):

(4) Due to the frequency spacing that exists between Channels 4 and 5, between Channels 6 and 7, and between Channels 13 and 14, the minimum adjacent channel technical criteria specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall not be applicable to these pairs of channels (see § 73.603(a)).

(5) A DTV station application that proposes to expand the DTV station's allotted or authorized coverage area in any direction will not be accepted if it is predicted to cause interference to a Class A TV station or to a digital Class A TV station authorized pursuant to Subpart J of this part, within the protected contour defined in § 73.6010 of this part. This paragraph applies to all DTV applications filed after May 1, 2000, and to DTV applications filed between December 31, 1999 and April 30, 2000 unless the DTV station licensee or permittee notified the Commission of its intent to "maximize" by December 31, 1999.

(i) Interference is predicted to occur if the ratio in dB of the field strength of a Class A TV station at its protected contour to the field strength resulting from the facilities proposed in the DTV application (calculated using the appropriate F(50,10) chart from Figure 9a, 10a, or 10c of § 73.699 of this part) fails to meet the D/U signal ratios for "DTV-into-analog TV" specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) Interference is predicted to occur if the ratio in dB of the field strength of a digital Class A TV station at its protected contour to the field strength resulting from the facilities proposed in the DTV application (calculated using the appropriate F(50,10) chart from Figure 9a, 10a, or 10c of § 73.699 of this part) fails to meet the D/U signal ratios for "DTV-into-DTV" specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section.
