
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.624 Digital television broadcast stations.

(a) Digital television ("DTV") broadcast stations are assigned channels 6 MHz wide. Initial eligibility for licenses for DTV broadcast stations is limited to persons that, as of April 3, 1997, are licensed to operate a full power television broadcast station or hold a permit to construct such a station (or both).

(b) DTV broadcast station permittees or licensees must transmit at least one over-the-air video program signal at no direct charge to viewers on the DTV channel. Until such time as a DTV station permittee or licensee ceases analog transmissions and returns that spectrum to the Commission, and except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, at any time that a DTV broadcast station permittee or licensee transmits a video program signal on its analog television channel, it must also transmit at least one over-the-air video program signal on the DTV channel. The DTV service that is provided pursuant to this paragraph (b) must have a resolution of at least 480i (vertical resolution of 480 lines, interlaced).

(1) DTV broadcast station permittees and licensees required to construct and operate a DTV station by May 1, 2002, or May 1, 2003, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section must, at a minimum, beginning on the date on which the DTV station is required to be constructed, provide a digital video program signal, of the quality described in paragraph (b) of this section, during prime time hours as defined in § 79.3(a)(6) of this chapter. These licensees and permittees must also comply with the minimum operating hours requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) DTV licensees or permittees that choose to commence digital operation before the construction deadline set forth in paragraph (d) of this section are not subject to any minimum schedule for operation on the DTV channel.

(3) DTV licensees or permittees that choose to broadcast an ATSC 3.0 signal (using the Next Gen TV transmission standard in § 73.682(f)) shall transmit at least one free over the air video programming stream on that signal that requires at most the signal threshold of a comparable received DTV signal. DTV licensees or permittees that choose to broadcast an ATSC 3.0 signal (using the Next Gen TV transmission standard in § 73.682(f)) shall also simulcast the primary video programming stream on its ATSC 3.0 signal by broadcasting an ATSC 1.0 signal (using the DTV transmission standard in § 73.682(d)) from another broadcast television facility within its local market in accordance with the local simulcasting requirement in §§ 73.3801, 73.6029 and 74.782 of this chapter.

(c) Provided that DTV broadcast stations comply with paragraph (b) of this section, DTV broadcast stations are permitted to offer services of any nature, consistent with the public interest, convenience, and necessity, on an ancillary or supplementary basis. The kinds of services that may be provided include, but are not limited to computer software distribution, data transmissions, teletext, interactive materials, aural messages, paging services, audio signals, subscription video, and any other services that do not derogate DTV broadcast stations' obligations under paragraph (b) of this section. Such services may be provided on a broadcast, point-to-point or point-to-multipoint basis, provided, however, that any video broadcast signal provided at no direct charge to viewers shall not be considered ancillary or supplementary.

(1) DTV licensees that provide ancillary or supplementary services that are analogous to other services subject to regulation by the Commission must comply with the Commission regulations that apply to those services, provided, however, that no ancillary or supplementary service shall have any rights to carriage under §§ 614 or 615 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or be deemed a multichannel video programming distributor for purposes of section 628 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(2) In all arrangements entered into with outside parties affecting service operation, the DTV licensee or permittee must retain control over all material transmitted in a broadcast mode via the station's facilities, with the right to reject any material in the sole judgement of the permitte or licensee. The license or permittee is also responsible for all aspects of technical operation involving such telecommunications services.

(3) In any application for renewal of a broadcast license for a television station that provides ancillary or supplementary services, a licensee shall establish that all of its program services on the analog and the DTV spectrum are in the public interest. Any violation of the Commission's rules applicable to ancillary or supplementary services will reflect on the licensee's qualifications for renewal of its license.

(d) Digital television broadcast facilities that comply with the FCC DTV Standard (section 73.682(d)), shall be constructed in the following markets by the following dates:

(1)(i) May 1, 1999: all network-affiliated television stations in the top ten television markets;

(ii) November 1, 1999: all network-affiliated television stations not included in category (1)(i) and in the top 30 television markets;

(iii) May 1, 2002: all remaining commercial television stations;

(iv) May 1, 2003: all noncommercial television stations.

(v) May 18, 2008 in all markets for completion of construction of post-transition (DTV) facilities for all commercial and noncommercial television stations that will use the same channel used for pre-transition operation for post-transition operation and that, as of December 31, 2007, have a construction permit for facilities that conform to the facilities defined by the new DTV Table of Allotments and accompanying Appendix B, established by the Seventh Report and Order in MB Docket No. 87-268 and codified at 47 CFR 73.622(i).

(vi) August 18, 2008 in all markets for completion of construction of post-transition (DTV) facilities for all commercial and noncommercial television stations that will use the same channel used for pre-transition operation for post-transition operation but which, as of December 31, 2007, do not have a construction permit for facilities that conform to the facilities defined by the new DTV Table of Allotments and accompanying Appendix B, established by the Seventh Report and Order in MB Docket No. 87-268 and codified at 47 CFR 73.622(i).

(vii) June 12, 2009 in all markets for completion of construction of post-transition (DTV) facilities for all commercial and noncommercial television stations whose post-transition digital channel is different from their pre-transition digital channel and for those stations whose post-transition channel is the same as their pre-transition channel but that are subject to a unique technical challenge that has been specifically recognized as such by the Commission.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (d)(1):

(i) The term, "network," is defined to include the ABC, CBS, NBC, and Fox television networks;

(ii) The term, "television market," is defined as the Designated Market Area or DMA as defined by Nielsen Media Research as of April 3, 1997; and

(iii) The terms, "network-affiliated" or "network-affiliate," are defined to include those television stations affiliated with at least one of the four networks designated in paragraph (d)(2)(i) as of April 3, 1997. In those DMAs in which a network has more than one network affiliate, paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section shall apply to its network affiliate with the largest audience share for the 9 a.m. to midnight time period as measured by Nielsen Media Research in its Nielsen Station Index, Viewers in Profile, as of February, 1997.
