
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.624 Digital television broadcast stations.
####### Authority delegated.

(3)(i) Authority is delegated to the Chief, Media Bureau to grant an extension of time of up to six months beyond the relevant construction deadline specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section upon demonstration by the DTV licensee or permittee that failure to meet that construction deadline is due to circumstances that are either unforeseeable or beyond the licensee's control where the licensee has taken all reasonable steps to resolve the problem expeditiously.

(ii) For construction deadlines occurring prior to June 13, 2009, the following circumstances may include, but shall not be limited to:

(A) Inability to construct and place in operation a facility necessary for transmitting digital television, such as a tower, because of delays in obtaining zoning or FAA approvals, or similar constraints; or

(B) Where the licensee or permittee is currently the subject of a bankruptcy or receivership proceeding, or is experiencing severe financial hardship as defined by negative cash flow for the past three years.

(iii) For construction deadlines occurring after June 12, 2009, the tolling provisions of ยง 73.3598 shall apply.

(iv) The Bureau may grant no more than two extension requests upon delegated authority. Subsequent extension requests shall be referred to the Commission. The Bureau may deny extension requests upon delegated authority.

(v) Applications for extension of time shall be filed no earlier than 90 and no later than 60 days prior to the relevant construction deadline, absent a showing of sufficient reasons for filing within less than 60 days of the relevant construction deadline.

(e) The application for construction permit must be filed on Form 301 (except for noncommercial stations, which must file on Form 340) on or before the date on which half of the construction period has elapsed. Thus, for example, for applicants in category (d)(1)(i), the application for construction period must be filed by May 1, 1998.

(f)(1) Commencing on April 1, 2003, DTV television licensees and permittees required to construct and operate a DTV station by May 1, 2002, or May 1, 2003, must transmit at least one over-the-air video program signal at no direct charge to viewers on their DTV channel at least 50 percent of the time they are transmitting a video program signal on their analog channel.

(2) Commencing on April 1, 2004, DTV licensees and permittees described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must transmit a video program signal as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section on the DTV channel at least 75 percent of the time they are transmitting a video program signal on the analog channel.

(3) Commencing on April 1, 2005, DTV licensees and permittees described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must transmit a video program signal as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section on the DTV channel at least 100 percent of the time they are transmitting a video program signal on the analog channel.

(4) The minimum operating hours requirements imposed in paragraphs (f) (1) through (3) of this section will terminate when the analog channel terminates operation and a 6 MHz channel is returned by the DTV licensee or permittee to the Commission.

(g) Commercial DTV licensees and permittees, and low power television, TV translator and Class A television stations DTV licensees and permittees, must annually remit a fee of 5 percent of the gross revenues derived from all ancillary and supplementary services, as defined by paragraph (b) of this section, which are feeable, as defined in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Noncommercial DTV licensees and permittees must annually remit a fee of 5 percent of the gross revenues derived from all ancillary and supplementary services, as defined by paragraph (b) of this section, which are feeable, as defined in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, except that such licensees and permittees must annually remit a fee of 2.5 percent of the gross revenues from such ancillary or supplementary services which are nonprofit, noncommercial, and educational.

(1)(i) All ancillary or supplementary services for which payment of a subscription fee or charge is required in order to receive the service are feeable. The fee required by this provision shall be imposed on any and all revenues from such services, including revenues derived from subscription fees and from any commercial advertisements transmitted on the service.

(ii) Any ancillary or supplementary service for which no payment is required from consumers in order to receive the service is feeable if the DTV licensee directly or indirectly receives compensation from a third party in return for the transmission of material provided by that third party (other than commercial advertisements used to support broadcasting for which a subscription fee is not required). The fee required by this provision shall be imposed on any and all revenues from such services, other than revenues received from a third party in return for the transmission of commercial advertisements used to support broadcasting for which a subscription fee is not required.
