
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.624 Digital television broadcast stations.
####### Payment of fees.

(2)(i) Each December 1, all commercial and noncommercial DTV licensees and permittees that provided feeable ancillary or supplementary services as defined in this section at any point during the 12-month period ending on the preceding September 30 will electronically report, for the applicable period:

(A) A brief description of the feeable ancillary or supplementary services provided;

(B) Gross revenues received from all feeable ancillary and supplementary services provided during the applicable period; and

(C) The amount of bitstream used to provide feeable ancillary or supplementary services during the applicable period. Licensees and permittees will certify under penalty of perjury the accuracy of the information reported. Failure to file information required by this section may result in appropriate sanctions.

(ii) A commercial or noncommercial DTV licensee or permittee that has provided feeable ancillary or supplementary services at any point during a 12-month period ending on September 30 must additionally file the FCC's standard remittance form (Form 159) on the subsequent December 1. Licensees and permittees will certify the amount of gross revenues received from feeable ancillary or supplementary services for the applicable 12-month period and will remit the payment of the required fee.

(iii) The Commission reserves the right to audit each licensee's or permittee's records which support the calculation of the amount specified on line 23A of Form 159. Each licensee or permittee, therefore, is required to retain such records for three years from the date of remittance of fees.
