
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.625 DTV coverage of principal community and antenna system.
####### Antenna system.

(c)(1) The antenna system shall be designed so that the effective radiated power at any angle above the horizontal shall be as low as the state of the art permits, and in the same vertical plane may not exceed the effective radiated power in either the horizontal direction or below the horizontal, whichever is greater.

(2) An antenna designed or altered to produce a noncircular radiation pattern in the horizontal plane is considered to be a directional antenna. Antennas purposely installed in such a manner as to result in the mechanical beam tilting of the major vertical radiation lobe are included in this category.

(3) Applications proposing the use of directional antenna systems must be accompanied by the following:

(i) Complete description of the proposed antenna system, including the manufacturer and model number of the proposed directional antenna.

(ii) Relative field horizontal plane pattern (horizontal polarization only) of the proposed directional antenna. A value of 1.0 should be used for the maximum radiation. The plot of the pattern should be oriented so that 0 degrees corresponds to true North. Where mechanical beam tilt is intended, the amount of tilt in degrees of the antenna vertical axis and the orientation of the downward tilt with respect to true North must be specified, and the horizontal plane pattern must reflect the use of mechanical beam tilt.

(iii) A tabulation of the relative field pattern required in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. The tabulation should use the same zero degree reference as the plotted pattern, and be tabulated at least every 10 degrees. In addition, tabulated values of all maxima and minima, with their corresponding azimuths, should be submitted.

(iv) Horizontal and vertical plane radiation patterns showing the effective radiated power, in dBk, for each direction. Sufficient vertical plane patterns must be included to indicate clearly the radiation characteristics of the antenna above and below the horizontal plane. In cases where the angles at which the maximum vertical radiation varies with azimuth, a separate vertical radiation pattern must be provided for each pertinent radial direction.

(v) All horizontal plane patterns must be plotted to the largest scale possible on unglazed letter-size polar coordinate paper (main engraving approximately 18 cm x 25 cm (7 inches x 10 inches)) using only scale divisions and subdivisions of 1, 2, 2.5. or 5 times 10-nth. All vertical plane patterns must be plotted on unglazed letter-size rectangular coordinate paper. Values of field strength on any pattern less than 10 percent of the maximum field strength plotted on that pattern must be shown on an enlarged scale.

(vi) The horizontal and vertical plane patterns that are required are the patterns for the complete directional antenna system. In the case of a composite antenna composed of two or more individual antennas, this means that the patterns for the composite antenna, not the patterns for each of the individual antennas, must be submitted.

(4) Where simultaneous use of antennas or antenna structures is proposed, the following provisions shall apply:

(i) In cases where it is proposed to use a tower of an AM broadcast station as a supporting structure for a DTV broadcast antenna, an appropriate application for changes in the radiating system of the AM broadcast station must be filed by the licensee thereof. A formal application (FCC Form 301, or FCC Form 340 for a noncommercial educational station) will be required if the proposal involves substantial change in the physical height or radiation characteristics of the AM broadcast antennas; otherwise an informal application will be acceptable. (In case of doubt, an informal application (letter) together with complete engineering data should be submitted.) An application may be required for other classes of stations when the tower is to be used in connection with a DTV station.

(ii) When the proposed DTV antenna is to be mounted on a tower in the vicinity of an AM station directional antenna system and it appears that the operation of the directional antenna system may be affected, an engineering study must be filed with the DTV application concerning the effect of the DTV antenna on the AM directional radiation pattern. Field measurements of the AM stations may be required prior to and following construction of the DTV station antenna, and readjustments made as necessary.

(5) Applications proposing the use of electrical beam tilt pursuant to section 73.622(f)(4) must be accompanied by the following:

(i) Complete description of the proposed antenna system, including the manufacturer and model number. Vertical plane radiation patterns conforming with paragraphs (c)(3)(iv), (c)(3)(v) and (c)(3)(vi) of this section.

(ii) For at least 36 evenly spaced radials, including 0 degrees corresponding to true North, a determination of the depression angle between the transmitting antenna center of radiation and the radio horizon using the formula in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(iii) For each such radial direction, the ERP at the depression angle, taking into account the effect of the electrical beam tilt, mechanical beam tilt, if used, and directional antenna pattern if a directional antenna is specified.

(iv) The maximum ERP toward the radio horizon determined by this process must be clearly indicated. In addition, a tabulation of the relative fields representing the effective radiation pattern toward the radio horizon in the 36 radial directions must be submitted. A value of 1.0 should be used for the maximum radiation.
