
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.664 Determining operating power.
####### Direct method, visual transmitter.

(b)The direct method of power determination for a TV visual transmitter uses the indications of a calibrated transmission line meter (responsive to peak power) located at the RF output terminals of the transmitter. The indications of the calibrated meter are used to observe and maintain the authorized operating power of the visual transmitter. This meter must be calibrated whenever any component in the metering circuit is repaired or replaced and as often as necessary to ensure operation in accordance with the provisions of ยง 73.1560 of this part. The following calibration procedures are to be used:

(1) The transmission line meter is calibrated by measuring the average power at the output terminals of the transmitter, including any vestigial sideband and harmonic filters which may be used in normal operation. For this determination the average power output is measured while operating into a dummy load of substantially zero reactance and a resistance equal to the transmission line characteristic impedance. During this measurement the transmitter is to be modulated only by a standard synchronizing signal with blanking level set at 75% of peak amplitude as observed in an output waveform monitor, and with this blanketing level amplitude maintained throughout the time interval between synchronizing pulses.

(2) If electrical devices are used to determine the output power, such devices must permit determination of this power to within an accuracy of +/-5% of the power indicated by the full scale reading of the electrical indicating instrument of the device. If temperature and coolant flow indicating devices are used to determine the power output, such devices must permit determination of this power to within an accuracy of +/-4% of measured average power output. The peak power output is the power so measured in the dummy load multiplied by the factor 1.68. During this measurement the input voltage and current to the final radio frequency amplifier stage and the transmission line meter are to be read and compared with similar readings taken with the dummy load replaced by the antenna. These readings must be in substantial agreement.

(3) The meter must be calibrated with the transmitter operating at 80%, 100%, and 110% of the authorized power as often as may be necessary to maintain its accuracy and ensure correct transmitter operating power. In cases where the transmitter is incapable of operating at 110% of the authorized power output, the calibration may be made at a power output between 100% and 110% of the authorized power output. However, where this is done, the output meter must be marked at the point of calibration of maximum power output, and the station will be deemed to be in violation of this rule if that power is exceeded. The upper and lower limits of permissible power deviation as determined by the prescribed calibration, must be shown upon the meter either by means of adjustable red markers incorporated in the meter or by red marks placed upon the meter scale or glass face. These markings must be checked and changed, if necessary, each time the meter is calibrated.
