
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.682 TV transmission standards.
####### Provided, however,

(4) The visual transmission amplitude characteristic shall be in accordance with the chart designated as Figure 5 of § 73.699:That for stations operating on Channel 15 through 69 and employing a transmitter with maximum peak visual power output of 1 kW or less the visual transmission amplitude characteristic may be in accordance with the chart designated as Figure 5a of § 73.699.

(5) The chrominance subcarrier frequency is 63/88 times precisely 5 MHz (3.57954545 . . . MHz). The tolerance is +/-10 Hz and the rate of frequency drift must not exceed 0.1 Hz per second (cycles per second squared).

(6) For monochrome and color transmissions the number of scanning lines per frame shall be 525, interlaced two to one in successive fields. The horizontal scanning frequency shall be 2/455 times the chrominance subcarrier frequency; this corresponds nominally to 15,750 Hz with an actual value of 15,734.264 +/-0.044 Hz). The vertical scanning frequency is 2/525 times the horizontal scanning frequency; this corresponds nominally to 60 Hz (the actual value is 59.94 Hz). For monochrome transmissions only, the nominal values of line and field frequencies may be used.

(7) The aspect ratio of the transmitted television picture shall be 4 units horizontally to 3 units vertically.

(8) During active scanning intervals, the scene shall be scanned from left to right horizontally and from top to bottom vertically, at uniform velocities.

(9) A carrier shall be modulated within a single television channel for both picture and synchronizing signals. The two signals comprise different modulation ranges in amplitude in accordance with the following:

(i) Monochrome transmissions shall comply with synchronizing waveform specifications in Figure 7 of § 73.699.

(ii) Color transmissions shall comply with the synchronizing waveform specifications in Figure 6 of § 73.699.

(iii) All stations operating on Channels 2 through 14 and those stations operating on Channels 15 through 69 licensed for a peak visual transmitter output power greater than one kW shall comply with the picture transmission amplitude characteristics shown in Figure 5 of § 73.699.

(iv) Stations operating on Channels 15 through 69 licensed for a peak visual transmitter output power of one kW or less shall comply with the picture transmission amplitude characteristic shown in Figure 5 or 5a of § 73.699.

(10) A decrease in initial light intensity shall cause an increase in radiated power (negative transmission).

(11) The reference black level shall be represented by a definite carrier level, independent of light and shade in the picture.

(12) The blanking level shall be transmitted at 75+/-2.5 percent of the peak carrier level.

(13) The reference white level of the luminance signal shall be 12.5+/-2.5 percent of the peak carrier level.

(14) It shall be standard to employ horizontal polarization. However, circular or elliptical polarization may be employed if desired, in which case clockwise (right hand) rotation, as defined in the IEEE Standard Definition 42A65-3E2, and transmission of the horizontal and vertical components in time and space quadrature shall be used. For either omnidirectional or directional antennas the licensed effective radiated power of the vertically polarized component may not exceed the licensed effective radiated power of the horizontally polarized component. For directional antennas, the maximum effective radiated power of the vertically polarized component shall not exceed the maximum effective radiated power of the horizontally polarized component in any specified horizontal or vertical direction.

(15) The effective radiated power of the aural transmitter must not exceed 22% of the peak radiated power of the visual transmitter.

(16) The peak-to-peak variation of transmitter output within one frame of video signal due to all causes, including hum, noise, and low-frequency response, measured at both scanning synchronizing peak and blanking level, shall not exceed 5 percent of the average scanning synchronizing peak signal amplitude. This provision is subject to change but is considered the best practice under the present state of the art. It will not be enforced pending a further determination thereof.

(17) The reference black level shall be separated from the blanking level by the setup interval, which shall be 7.5+/-2.5 percent of the video range from blanking level to the reference white level.

(18) For monochrome transmission, the transmitter output shall vary in substantially inverse logarithmic relation to the brightness of the subject. No tolerances are set at this time. This provision is subject to change but is considered the best practice under the present state of the art. It will not be enforced pending a further determination thereof.

(19) The color picture signal shall correspond to a luminance component transmitted as amplitude modulation of the picture carrier and a simultaneous pair of chrominance components transmitted as the amplitude modulation sidebands of a pair of suppressed subcarriers in quadrature.

(20) Equation of complete color signal.

(i) The color picture signal has the following composition:

(ii) The symbols in paragraph (a)(20)(i) of this section have the following significance:
