
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.682 TV transmission standards.
####### E,E,E

(vi)&#x2032;,&#x2032;,&#x2032;, and the components of these signals shall match each other in time to 0.05 µsecs.

(vii) The angles of the subcarrier measured with respect to the burst phase, when reproducing saturated primaries and their complements at 75 percent of full amplitude, shall be within +/-10&#xB0; and their amplitudes shall be within +/-20 percent of the values specified above. The ratios of the measured amplitudes of the subcarrier to the luminance signal for the same saturated primaries and their complements shall fall between the limits of 0.8 and 1.2 of the values specified for their ratios. Closer tolerances may prove to be practicable and desirable with advance in the art.

(21) The interval beginning with line 17 and continuing through line 20 of the vertical blanking interval of each field may be used for the transmission of test signals, cue and control signals, and identification signals, subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth below. Test signals may include signals designed to check the performance of the overall transmission system or its individual components. Cue and control signals shall be related to the operation of the TV broadcast station. Identification signals may be transmitted to identify the broadcast material or its source, and the date and time of its origination. Figures 6 and 7 of § 73.699 identify the numbered lines referred to in this paragraph.

(i) Modulation of the television transmitter by such signals shall be confined to the area between the reference white level and the blanking level, except where test signals include chrominance subcarrier frequencies, in which case positive excursions of chrominance components may exceed reference white, and negative excursions may extend into the synchronizing area. In no case may the modulation excursions produced by test signals extend beyond peak-of-sync, or to zero carrier level.

(ii) The use of such signals shall not result in significant degradation of the program transmission of the television broadcast station, nor produce emission outside of the frequency band occupied for normal program transmissions.

(iii) Such signals may not be transmitted during that portion of each line devoted to horizontal blanking.

(iv) Regardless of other provisions of this paragraph, after June 30, 1994, Line 19, in each field, may be used only for the transmission of the ghost-canceling reference signal described in OET Bulletin No. 68, which is available from the FCC Warehouse, 9300 East Hampton Drive, Capitol Heights, MD 20743. Notwithstanding the modulation limits contained in paragraph (a)(23)(i) of this section, the vertical interval reference signal formerly permitted on Line 19 and described in Figure 16 of § 73.699, may be transmitted on any of lines 10 through 16 without specific Commission authorization, subject to the conditions contained in paragraphs (a)(21)(ii) and (a)(22)(ii) of this section.

(22)(i) Line 21, in each field, may be used for the transmission of a program-related data signal which, when decoded, provides a visual depiction of information simultaneously being presented on the aural channel (captions). Line 21, field 2 may be used for transmission of a program-related data signal which, when decoded, identifies a rating level associated with the current program. Such data signals shall conform to the format described in figure 17 of § 73.699 of this chapter, and may be transmitted during all periods of regular operation. On a space available basis, line 21 field 2 may also be used for text-mode data and extended data service information.
