
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.682 TV transmission standards.
####### Provided:

(ii) At times when Line 21 is not being used to transmit a program related data signal, data signals which are not program related may be transmitted,the same data format is used and the information to be displayed is of a broadcast nature.

(iii) The use of Line 21 for transmission of other data signals conforming to other formats may be used subject to prior authorization by the Commission.

(iv) The data signal shall cause no significant degradation to any portion of the visual signal nor produce emissions outside the authorized television channel.

(v) Transmission of visual emergency messages pursuant to § 73.1250 shall take precedence and shall be cause for interrupting transmission of data signals permitted under this paragraph.

(23) Specific scanning lines in the vertical blanking interval may be used for the purpose of transmitting telecommunications signals in accordance with § 73.646, subject to certain conditions:

(i) Telecommunications may be transmitted on Lines 10-18 and 20, all of Field 2 and Field 1. Modulation level shall not exceed 70 IRE on lines 10, 11, and 12; and, 80 IRE on lines 13-18 and 20.

(ii) No observable degradation may be caused to any portion of the visual or aural signals.

(iii) Telecommunications signals must not produce emissions outside the authorized television channel bandwidth. Digital data pulses must be shaped to limit spectral energy to the nominal video baseband.

(iv) Transmission of emergency visual messages pursuant to § 73.1250 must take precedence over, and shall be cause for interrupting, a service such as teletext that provides a visual depiction of information simultaneously transmitted on the aural channel.

(v) A reference pulse for a decoder associated adaptive equalizer filter designed to improve the decoding of telecommunications signals may be inserted on any portion of the vertical blanking interval authorized for data service, in accordance with the signal levels set forth in paragraph (a)(23)(i) of this section.

(vi) All lines authorized for telecommunications transmissions may be used for other purposes upon prior approval by the Commission.

(24) Licensees and permittees of TV broadcast and low power TV stations may insert non-video data into the active video portion of their TV transmission, subject to certain conditions:

(i) The active video portion of the visual signal begins with line 22 and continues through the end of each field, except it does not include that portion of each line devoted to horizontal blanking. Figures 6 and 7 of § 73.699 identify the numbered line referred to in this paragraph;

(ii) Inserted non-video data may be used for the purpose of transmitting a telecommunications service in accordance with § 73.646. In addition to a telecommunications service, non-video data can be used to enhance the station's broadcast program service or for purposes related to station operations. Signals relating to the operation of TV stations include, but are not limited to program or source identification, relay of broadcast materials to other stations, remote cueing and order messages, and control and telemetry signals for the transmitting system; and

(iii) A station may only use systems for inserting non-video information that have been approved in advance by the Commission. The criteria for advance approval of systems are as follows:

(A) The use of such signals shall not result in significant degradation to any portion of the visual, aural, or program-related data signals of the television broadcast station;

(B) No increase in width of the television broadcast channel (6 MHz) is permitted. Emissions outside the authorized television channel must not exceed the limitations given in § 73.687(e). Interference to reception of television service either of co-channel or adjacent channel stations must not increase over that resulting from the transmission of programming without inserted data; and

(C) Where required, system receiving or decoding devices must meet the TV interface device provisions of Part 15, Subpart H of this chapter.

(iv) No protection from interference of any kind will be afforded to reception of inserted non-video data.

(v) Upon request by an authorized representative of the Commission, the licensee of a TV station transmitting encoded programming must make available a receiving decoder to the Commission to carry out its regulatory responsibilities.
