
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.682 TV transmission standards.
####### Subscription TV technical systems.

(b)The FCC may specify, as part of the advance approval of the technical system for transmitting encoded subscription programming, deviations from the power determination procedures, operating power levels, aural or video baseband signals, modulation levels or other characteristics of the transmitted signal as otherwise specified in this Subpart. Any decision to approve such operating deviations shall be solely at the discretion of the FCC.

(c) TV multiplex subcarrier/stereophonic aural transmission standards.

(1) The modulating signal for the main channel shall consist of the sum of the stereophonic (biphonic, quadraphonic, etc.) input signals.

(2) The instantaneous frequency of the baseband stereophonic subcarrier must at all times be within the range 15 kHz to 120 kHz. Either amplitude or frequency modulation of the stereophonic subcarrier may be used.

(3) One or more pilot subcarriers between 16 kHz and 120 kHz may be used to switch a TV receiver between the stereophonic and monophonic reception modes or to activate a stereophonic audio indicator light, and one or more subcarriers between 15 kHz and 120 kHz may be used for any other authorized purpose; except that stations employing the BTSC system of stereophonic sound transmission and audio processing may transmit a pilot subcarrier at 15,734 Hz, +/-2 Hz. Other methods of multiplex subcarrier or stereophonic aural transmission systems must limit energy at 15,734 Hz, +/-20 Hz, to no more than +/-0.125 kHz aural carrier deviation.

(4) Aural baseband information above 120 kHz must be attenuated 40 dB referenced to 25 kHz main channel deviation of the aural carrier.

(5) For required transmitter performance, all of the requirements of ยง 73.687(b) shall apply to the main channel, with the transmitter in the multiplex subcarrier or stereophonic aural mode.

(6) For electrical performance standards of the transmitter, the requirements of ยง 73.687(b) apply to the main channel.

(7) Multiplex subcarrier or stereophonic aural transmission systems must be capable of producing and must not exceed +/-25 kHz main channel deviation of the aural carrier.

(8) The arithmetic sum of non-multiphonic baseband signals between 15 kHz and 120 kHz must not exceed +/-50 kHz deviation of the aural carrier.

(9) Total modulation of the aural carrier must not exceed +/-75 kHz.
