
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.683 Field strength contours and presumptive determination of field strength at individual locations.
####### F

(a) In the authorization of TV stations, two field strength contours are considered. These are specified as Grade A and Grade B and indicate the approximate extent of coverage over average terrain in the absence of interference from other television stations. Under actual conditions, the true coverage may vary greatly from these estimates because the terrain over any specific path is expected to be different from the average terrain on which the field strength charts were based. The required field strength,(50,50), in dB above one micro-volt per meter (dBu) for the Grade A and Grade B contours are as follows:

(b) It should be realized that the F (50,50) curves when used for Channels 14-69 are not based on measured data at distances beyond about 48.3 kilometers (30 miles). Theory would indicate that the field strengths for Channels 14-69 should decrease more rapidly with distance beyond the horizon than for Channels 2-6, and modification of the curves for Channels 14-69 may be expected as a result of measurements to be made at a later date. For these reasons, the curves should be used with appreciation of their limitations in estimating levels of field strength. Further, the actual extent of service will usually be less than indicated by these estimates due to interference from other stations. Because of these factors, the predicted field strength contours give no assurance of service to any specific percentage of receiver locations within the distances indicated. In licensing proceedings these variations will not be considered.

(c) The field strength contours will be considered for the following purposes only:

(1) In the estimation of coverage resulting from the selection of a particular transmitter site by an applicant for a TV station.

(2) In connection with problems of coverage arising out of application of ยง 73.3555.

(3) In determining compliance with ยง 73.685(a) concerning the minimum field strength to be provided over the principal community to be served.
