
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.686 Field strength measurements.
####### Collection of field strength data for propagation analysis,Preparation for measurements.

(b)-(1)(i) On large scale topographic maps, eight or more radials are drawn from the transmitter location to the maximum distance at which measurements are to be made, with the angles included between adjacent radials of approximately equal size. Radials should be oriented so as to traverse representative types of terrain. The specific number of radials and their orientation should be such as to accomplish this objective.

(ii) At a point exactly 16.1 kilometers (10 miles) from the transmitter, each radial is marked, and at greater distances at successive 3.2 kilometer (2 mile) intervals. Where measurements are to be conducted at UHF, or over extremely rugged terrain, shorter intervals may be employed, but all such intervals shall be of equal length. Accessible roads intersecting each radial as nearly as possible at each 3.2 kilometer (2 mile) marker are selected. These intersections are the points on the radial at which measurements are to be made, and are referred to subsequently as measuring locations. The elevation of each measuring location should approach the elevation at the corresponding 3.2 kilometer (2 mile) marker as nearly as possible.
