
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.686 Field strength measurements.
####### Measurement procedure.

(2)The field strength of the visual carrier shall be measured with a voltmeter capable of indicating accurately the peak amplitude of the synchronizing signal. All measurements shall be made utilizing a receiving antenna designed for reception of the horizontally polarized signal component, elevated 9.1 meters (30 feet) above the roadbed. At each measuring location, the following procedure shall be employed.

(i) The instrument calibration is checked.

(ii) The antenna is elevated to a height of 30 feet.

(iii) The receiving antenna is rotated to determine if the strongest signal is arriving from the direction of the transmitter.

(iv) The antenna is oriented so that the sector of its response pattern over which maximum gain is realized is in the direction of the transmitter.

(v) A mobile run of at least 30.5 meters (100 feet) is made, which is centered on the intersection of the radial and the road, and the measured field strength is continuously recorded on a chart recorder over the length of the run.

(vi) The actual measuring location is marked exactly on the topographic map, and a written record, keyed to the specific location, is made of all factors which may affect the recorded field, such as topography, height and types of vegetation, buildings, obstacles, weather, and other local features.

(vii) If, during the test conducted as described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, the strongest signal is found to come from a direction other than from the transmitter, after the mobile run prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section is concluded, additional measurements shall be made in a "cluster" of at least five fixed points. At each such point, the field strengths with the antenna oriented toward the transmitter, and with the antenna oriented so as to receive the strongest field, are measured and recorded. Generally, all points should be within 61.0 meters (200 feet) of the center point of the mobile run.

(viii) If overhead obstacles preclude a mobile run of at leat 30.5 meters (100 feet), a "cluster" of five spot measurements may be made in lieu of this run. The first measurement in the cluster is identified. Generally, the locations for other measurements shall be within 61.0 meters (200 feet) of the location of the first.
