
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.687 Transmission system requirements.
####### Visual transmitter.

(a)

(1) The field strength or voltage of the lower sideband, as radiated or dissipated and measured as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall not be greater than -20 dB for a modulating frequency of 1.25 MHz or greater and in addition, for color, shall not be greater than -42 dB for a modulating frequency of 3.579545 MHz (the color subcarrier frequency). For both monochrome and color, the field strength or voltage of the upper sideband as radiated or dissipated and measured as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not be greater than -20 dB for a modulating frequency of 4.75 MHz or greater. For stations operating on Channels 15-36 and employing a transmitter delivering maximum peak visual power output of 1 kW or less, the field strength or voltage of the upper and lower sidebands, as radiated or dissipated and measured as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall depart from the visual amplitude characteristic (Figure 5a of § 73.699) by no more than the following amounts:

(2) The attenuation characteristics of a visual transmitter shall be measured by application of a modulating signal to the transmitter input terminals in place of the normal composite television video signal. The signal applied shall be a composite signal composed of a synchronizing signal to establish peak output voltage plus a variable frequency sine wave voltage occupying the interval between synchronizing pulses. (The "synchronizing signal" referred to in this section means either a standard synchronizing wave form or any pulse that will properly set the peak.) The axis of the sine wave in the composite signal observed in the output monitor shall be maintained at an amplitude 0.5 of the voltage at synchronizing peaks. The amplitude of the sine wave input shall be held at a constant value. This constant value should be such that at no modulating frequency does the maximum excursion of the sine wave, observed in the composite output signal monitor, exceed the value 0.75 of peak output voltage. The amplitude of the 200 kHz sideband shall be measured and designated zero dB as a basis for comparison. The modulation signal frequency shall then be varied over the desired range and the field strength or signal voltage of the corresponding sidebands measured. As an alternate method of measuring, in those cases in which the automatic d-c insertion can be replaced by manual control, the above characteristic may be taken by the use of a video sweep generator and without the use of pedestal synchronizing pulses. The d-c level shall be set for midcharacteristic operation.

(3) A sine wave, introduced at those terminals of the transmitter which are normally fed the composite color picture signal, shall produce a radiated signal having an envelope delay, relative to the average envelope delay between 0.05 and 0.20 MHz, of zero microseconds up to a frequency of 3.0 MHz; and then linearly decreasing to 4.18 MHz so as to be equal to -0.17 µsecs at 3.58 MHz. The tolerance on the envelope delay shall be +/-0.05 µsecs at 3.58 MHz. The tolerance shall increase linearly to +/-0.1 µsec down to 2.1 MHz, and remain at +/-0.1 µsec down to 0.2 MHz. (Tolerances for the interval of 0.0 to 0.2 MHz are not specified at the present time.) The tolerance shall also increase linearly to +/-0.1 µsec at 4.18 MHz.

(4) The radio frequency signal, as radiated, shall have an envelope as would be produced by a modulating signal in conformity with § 73.682 and Figure 6 or 7 of § 73.699, as modified by vestigial sideband operation specified in Figure 5 of § 73.699. For stations operating on Channels 15-36 the radio frequency signal as radiated, shall have an envelope as would be produced by a modulating signal in conformity with § 73.682 and Figure 6 or 7 of § 73.699.

(5) The time interval between the leading edges of successive horizontal pulses shall vary less than one half of one percent of the average interval. However, for color transmissions, § 73.682(a) (5) and (6) shall be controlling.

(6) The rate of change of the frequency of recurrence of the leading edges of the horizontal synchronizing signals shall be not greater than 0.15 percent per second, the frequency to be determined by an averaging process carried out over a period of not less than 20, nor more than 100 lines, such lines not to include any portion of the blanking interval. However, for color transmissions, § 73.682(a) (5) and (6) shall be controlling.
