
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart E - Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.687 Transmission system requirements.
####### Operation.

(e)(1) Spurious emissions, including radio frequency harmonics, shall be maintained at as low a level as the state of the art permits. As measured at the output terminals of the transmitter (including harmonic filters, if required) all emissions removed in frequency in excess of 3 MHz above or below the respective channel edge shall be attenuated no less than 60 dB. below the visual transmitted power. (The 60 dB. value for television transmitters specified in this rule should be considered as a temporary requirement which may be increased at a later date, especially when more higher-powered equipment is utilized. Stations should, therefore, give consideration to the installation of equipment with greater attenuation than 60 dB.) In the event of interference caused to any service greater attenuation will be required.

(2) If a limiting or compression amplifier is used in conjunction with the aural transmitter, due operating precautions should be maintained because of pre-emphasis in the transmitting system.

(3) TV broadcast stations operating on Channel 14 must take special precautions to avoid interference to adjacent spectrum land mobile radio service facilities. Where a TV station is authorized and operating prior to the authorization and operation of the land mobile facility, a Channel 14 station must attenuate its emissions within the frequency range 467 to 470 MHz if necessary to permit reasonable use of the adjacent frequencies by land mobile licensees.

(4) The requirements listed below apply to permittees authorized to construct a new station on TV Channel 14, and to licensees authorized to change the channel of an existing station to Channel 14, to increase effective radiated power (ERP) (including any change in directional antenna characteristics that results in an increase in ERP in any direction), or to change the transmitting location of an existing station.

(i) For the purposes of this paragraph (e), a protected land mobile facility is a receiver that is intended to receive transmissions from licensed land mobile stations within the frequency band below 470 MHz, and is associated with one or more land mobile stations for which a license has been issued by the Commission, or a proper application has been received by the Commission prior to the date of the filing of the TV construction permit application. However, a land mobile facility will not be protected if it is proposed in an application that is denied or dismissed and that action is no longer subject to Commission review. Further, if the land mobile station is not operating when the TV facility commences operation and it does not commence operation within the time permitted by its authorization in accordance with part 90 of this chapter, it will not be protected.

(ii) A TV permittee must take steps before construction to identify potential interference to normal land mobile operation that could be caused by TV emissions outside the authorized channel, land mobile receiver desensitization or intermodulation. It must install filters and take other precautions as necessary, and submit evidence that no interference is being caused before it will be permitted to transmit programming on the new facilities pursuant to the provisions of ยง 73.1615 or ยง 73.1620 of this part. A TV permittee must reduce its emissions within the land mobile channel of a protected land mobile facility that is receiving interference caused by the TV emission producing a vertically polarized signal and a field strength in excess of 17 dBu at the land mobile receiver site on the land mobile frequency. The TV emission should be measured with equipment set to a 30 kHz measurement bandwidth including the entire applicable land mobile channel. A TV permittee must correct a desensitization problem if its occurrence can be directly linked to the start of the TV operation and the land mobile station is using facilities with typical desensitization rejection characteristics. A TV permittee must identify the source of an intermodulation product that is generated when the TV operation commences. If the intermodulation source is under its control, the TV permittee must correct the problem. If the intermodulation source is beyond the TV permittee's control, it must cooperate in the resolution of the problem and should provide whatever technical assistance it can.
