
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart F - International Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.702 Assignment and use of frequencies.

(a) Frequencies will be assigned by the Commission prior to the start of each season to authorized international broadcasting stations for use during the season at specified hours and for transmission to specified zones or areas of reception, with specified power and antenna bearing. Six months prior to the start of each season, licensees and permittees shall by informal written request, submitted to the Commission electronically in the International Communications Filing System (ICFS), indicate for the season the frequency or frequencies desired for transmission to each zone or area of reception specified in the license or permit, the specific hours during which it desires to transmit to such zones or areas on each frequency, and the power, antenna gain, and antenna bearing it desires to use. Requests will be honored to the extent that interference and propagation conditions permit and that they are otherwise in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(b) After necessary processing of the requests required by paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission will notify each licensee and permittee of the frequencies, hours of use thereof to specified zones or areas of reception, power, and antenna bearing which it intends to authorize for the season in question. After receipt of such notification, the licensee or permittee shall, in writing, not later than two months before the start of the season in question, electronically inform the Commission in ICFS either that it plans to operate in accordance with the authorization which the Commission intends to issue, or that it plans to operate in another manner. If the licensee or permittee indicates that it plans to operate in another manner, it shall furnish explanatory details.

(c) If after submitting the request required under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, but before receipt of the Commission's notification referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, the licensee or permittee submits a request for changes of its original request electronically in ICFS such requests will be accepted for consideration only if accompanied by statements showing good cause therefor and will be honored only if conditions permit. If the information required to be submitted by the licensee or permittee under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section indicates that operation in another manner is contemplated, and the explanatory details contain a request for change in the originally proposed manner of operation, such requests will be accepted for consideration only if accompanied by statements showing good cause therefor and will be honored only if conditions permit. If after the licensee or permittee submits the information required under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, but before the start of the season in question, the licensee or permittee submits electronically in ICFS a request for changes in its manner of operation for the season in question, the request will be accepted for consideration only if accompanied by statements showing good cause therefor and will be honored only if conditions permit. If after the start of a season the licensee or permittee submits a request for changes in the manner of operation as authorized, the request will be considered only if accompanied by statements showing good cause therefor, and will be honored only if conditions permit.

(d) The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of the section shall apply to licensees, to permittees operating under program test authority, and to permittees who anticipate applying for and receiving program test authority for operation during the specified season. Permittees who during the process of construction wish to engage in equipment tests shall by informal written request, submitted to the Commission electronically in ICFS not less than 30 days before they desire to begin such testing, indicate the frequencies they desire to use for testing and the hours they desire to use those frequencies. No equipment testing shall occur until the Commission has authorized frequencies and hours for such testing. Such authorizations shall be only for one season, and if it is desired to continue equipment testing in a following season, new requests for frequencies and hours must be submitted at least 30 days before it is desired to begin testing in the following season.

(e) Within 14 days after the end of each season, a report shall be filed with the Commission electronically in ICFS by each licensee or permittee operating under program test authority who has been issued a seasonal schedule for that season. The report shall state whether the licensee or permittee has operated the number of frequency-hours authorized by the seasonal schedule to each of the zones or areas of reception specified in the schedule. If such operation has not occurred, a detailed explanation of that fact shall also be submitted which includes specific dates, frequency-hours not used, and reasons for the failure to operate as authorized. The report shall also contain information that has been received by the licensee or permittee as to reception or interference, and conclusions with regard to propagation characteristics of frequencies that were assigned for the season in question.
