
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart F - International Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.702 Assignment and use of frequencies.
####### Requirements for Regional operation.

(h)(1) Frequency assignments in the bands 7,200-7,300 kHz and 7,400-7,450 kHz shall be restricted to international broadcast stations in the Pacific insular areas that are located in Region 3 (as defined in 47 CFR 2.105(a), note 3) that transmit to geographical zones and areas of reception in Region 1 or Region 3.

(2) During the hours of 0800-1600 UTC (Coordinated Universal Time) antenna gain with reference to an isotropic radiator in any easterly direction that would intersect any area in Region 2 shall not exceed 2.15 dBi, except in the case where a transmitter power of less than 100 kW is used. In this case, antenna gain on restricted azimuths shall not exceed that which is determined in accordance with equation below. Stations desiring to operate in this band must submit sufficient antenna performance information electronically in ICFS to ensure compliance with these restrictions.Permitted gain for transmitter powers less than 100 kW:

(i) Frequencies requested for assignment must be as near as practicable to the optimum working frequency (unless otherwise justified) for the zone or area of reception for the period and path of transmission, and should be chosen so that a given frequency will provide the largest period of reliable transmission to the selected zone or area of reception. Moreover, at the zone or area of reception frequencies shall provide protection to the transmissions of other broadcasting stations which, in the opinion of the Commission, have priority of assignment.

(1) Requests for frequency-hours shall be accompanied by all pertinent technical data with reference to the frequencies and hours of operation, including calculated field strengths delivered to the zones or areas of reception.

(2) It is preferable that calculated field strengths delivered to zones or areas of reception be equal to or greater than those required by I.F.R.B. Technical Standards, Series A (and supplements thereto), in order for the I.F.R.B. to afford the notified assignment protection from interference. Nevertheless, calculated field strengths less than those required by the I.F.R.B. standards for protection will be acceptable to the Commission. However, licensees should note that if such lesser field strengths are submitted no protection from interference will be provided by the I.F.R.B. if their technical examination of such notifications show incompatibilities with other notified assignments fully complying with I.F.R.B. technical standards.

(3) Licensees are permitted to engage in multiple operation as defined in ยง 73.701(d).

(4) Seasonal requests for frequency-hours will be only for transmissions to zones or areas of reception specified in the basic instrument of authorization. Changes in such zones or areas will be made only on separate application for modification of such instruments made electronically in ICFS.

(j) Not more than one frequency will be assigned for use at any one time for any one program transmission except in instances where a program is intended for reception in more than one zone or area of reception and the intended zones or areas cannot be served by a single frequency: Provided, however, That on a showing of good cause made electronically in ICFS a licensee may be authorized to operate on more than one frequency at any one time to transmit any one program to a single zone or area of reception.

(k) Any frequency assigned to a licensee or permittee shall also be available for assignment to other licensees or permittees.

(l) All assignments of frequencies and the hours during which they will be used will be made with the express understanding that they are subject to immediate cancellation or change without hearing whenever the Commission determines that interference or propagation conditions so require and that each frequency-hour assignment for a given seasonal schedule is unique unto itself and not necessarily available for use during a subsequent season.

(m) The total maximum number of frequency-hours which will be authorized to all licensees of international broadcasting stations during any one day for any season is 100. The number of frequency-hours allocated to any licensee will depend on past usage, availability, and need. If for a forthcoming season the total of the requests for daily frequency-hours of all licensees exceeds 100, all licensees will be notified and each licensee that makes an adequate showing electronically in ICFS that good cause exists for not having its requested number of frequency-hours reduced and that operation of its station without such reduction would be consistent with the public interest may be authorized the frequency-hours requested.
