
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Low Power FM Broadcast Stations (LPFM)
###### ยง 73.807 Minimum distance separation between stations.

Minimum separation requirements for LPFM stations are listed in the following paragraphs. Except as noted below, an LPFM station will not be authorized unless the co-channel, and first- and second-adjacent channel separations are met. An LPFM station need not satisfy the third-adjacent channel separations listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section in order to be authorized. The third-adjacent channel separations are included for use in determining for purposes of ยง 73.810 which third-adjacent channel interference regime applies to an LPFM station. Minimum distances for co-channel and first-adjacent channel are separated into two columns. The left-hand column lists the required minimum separation to protect other stations and the right-hand column lists (for informational purposes only) the minimum distance necessary for the LPFM station to receive no interference from other stations assumed to be operating at the maximum permitted facilities for the station class. For second-adjacent channel, the required minimum distance separation is sufficient to avoid interference received from other stations.

(a)(1) An LPFM station will not be authorized initially unless the minimum distance separations in the following table are met with respect to authorized FM stations, applications for new and existing FM stations filed prior to the release of the public notice announcing an LPFM window period, authorized LPFM stations, LPFM station applications that were timely-filed within a previous window, and vacant FM allotments. LPFM modification applications must either meet the distance separations in the following table or, if short-spaced, not lessen the spacing to subsequently authorized stations.

(2) LPFM stations must satisfy the second-adjacent channel minimum distance separation requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to any third-adjacent channel FM station that, as of September 20, 2000, broadcasts a radio reading service via a subcarrier frequency.

(b) In addition to meeting or exceeding the minimum separations in paragraph (a) of this section, new LPFM stations will not be autorized in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands unless the minimum distance separations in the following tables are met with respect to authorized or proposed FM stations:

(c) In addition to meeting the separations specified in paragraphs (a) and (b), LPFM applications must meet the minimum separation requirements in the following table with respect to authorized FM translator stations, cutoff FM translator applications, and FM translator applications filed prior to the release of the Public Notice announcing the LPFM window period.

(d) Existing LPFM stations which do not meet the separations in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may be relocated provided that the separation to any short-spaced station is not reduced.
