
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Low Power FM Broadcast Stations (LPFM)
###### ยง 73.810 Third adjacent channel interference.
####### Interference complaints and remediation.

(1)(i) Such an LPFM station is required to provide copies of all complaints alleging that its signal is causing third-adjacent channel interference to or impairing the reception of the signal of a full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station to such affected station and to the Commission.

(ii) A full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station shall review all complaints it receives, either directly or indirectly, from listeners regarding alleged third-adjacent channel interference caused by the operations of such an LPFM station. Such full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station shall also identify those that qualify as bona fide complaints under this section and promptly provide such LPFM station with copies of all bona fide complaints. A bona fide complaint:

(A) Must include current contact information for the complainant;

(B) Must state the nature and location of the alleged third-adjacent channel interference and must specify the call signs of the LPFM station and affected full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station, and the type of receiver involved; and

(C) Must be received by either the LPFM station or the affected full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station within one year of the date on which the LPFM station commenced broadcasts with its currently authorized facilities.

(iii) The Commission will accept bona fide complaints and will notify the licensee of the LPFM station allegedly causing third-adjacent channel interference to the signal of a full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station of the existence of the alleged interference within 7 calendar days of the Commission's receipt of such complaint.

(iv) Such an LPFM station will be given a reasonable opportunity to resolve all complaints of third-adjacent channel interference within the protected contour of the affected full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station. A complaint will be considered resolved where the complainant does not reasonably cooperate with an LPFM station's remedial efforts. Such an LPFM station also is encouraged to address all other complaints of third-adjacent channel interference, including complaints based on interference to a full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station by the transmitter site of the LPFM station at any distance from the full power, FM translator or FM booster station.

(v) In the event that the number of unresolved complaints of third-adjacent channel interference within the protected contour of the affected full power FM, FM translator or FM booster station plus the number of complaints for which the source of third-adjacent channel interference remains in dispute equals at least one percent of the households within one kilometer of the LPFM transmitter site or thirty households, whichever is less, the LPFM and affected stations must cooperate in an "on-off" test to determine whether the third-adjacent channel interference is traceable to the LPFM station.

(vi) If the number of unresolved and disputed complaints of third-adjacent channel interference within the protected contour of the affected full power, FM translator or FM booster station exceeds the numeric threshold specified in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section following an "on-off" test, the affected station may request that the Commission initiate a proceeding to consider whether the LPFM station license should be modified or cancelled, which will be completed by the Commission within 90 days. Parties may seek extensions of the 90-day deadline consistent with Commission rules.

(vii) An LPFM station may stay any procedures initiated pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section by voluntarily ceasing operations and filing an application for facility modification within twenty days of the commencement of such procedures.
