
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Low Power FM Broadcast Stations (LPFM)
###### ยง 73.810 Third adjacent channel interference.
####### Periodic announcements.

(2)(i) For a period of one year from the date of licensing of a new LPFM station that is constructed on a third-adjacent channel and satisfies the third-adjacent channel minimum distance separations set forth in ยง 73.807, such LPFM station shall broadcast periodic announcements. The announcements shall, at a minimum, alert listeners of the potentially affected third-adjacent channel station of the potential for interference, instruct listeners to contact the LPFM station to report any interference, and provide contact information for the LPFM station. The announcements shall be made in the primary language(s) of both the new LPFM station and the potentially affected third-adjacent channel station(s). Sample announcement language follows:

(ii) During the first thirty days after licensing of a new LPFM station that is constructed on a third-adjacent channel and satisfies the third-adjacent channel minimum distance separations set forth in Section 73.807, the LPFM station must broadcast the announcements specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section at least twice daily. The first daily announcement must be made between the hours of 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., or 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. The LPFM station must vary the time slot in which it airs this announcement. For stations that do not operate at these times, the announcements shall be made during the first two hours of broadcast operations each day. The second daily announcement must be made outside of the 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. time slots. The LPFM station must vary the times of day in which it broadcasts this second daily announcement in order to ensure that the announcements air during all parts of its broadcast day. For stations that do not operate at these times, the announcements shall be made during the first two hours of broadcast operations each day. For the remainder of the one year period, the LPFM station must broadcast the announcements at least twice per week. The announcements must be broadcast between the hours of 7 a.m. and midnight. For stations that do not operate at these times, the announcements shall be made during the first two hours of broadcast operations each day.

(iii) Any new LPFM station that is constructed on a third-adjacent channel and satisfies the minimum distance separations set forth in ยง 73.807 must:

(A) notify the Audio Division, Media Bureau, and all affected stations on third-adjacent channels of an interference complaint. The notification must be made electronically within 48 hours after the receipt of an interference complaint by the LPFM station; and

(B) cooperate in addressing any third-adjacent channel interference.
