
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart I - Procedures Implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
###### ยง 1.1310 Radiofrequency radiation exposure limits.
####### fully aware,transient,exercise control

(2) Occupational/controlled exposure limits apply in situations in which persons are exposed as a consequence of their employment provided those persons are fully aware of the potential for exposure and can exercise control over their exposure. The phrasein the context of applying these exposure limits means that an exposed person has received written and/or verbal information fully explaining the potential for RF exposure resulting from his or her employment. With the exception ofpersons, this phrase also means that an exposed person has received appropriate training regarding work practices relating to controlling or mitigating his or her exposure. In situations when an untrained person is transient through a location where occupational/controlled limits apply, he or she must be made aware of the potential for exposure and be supervised by trained personnel pursuant to ยง 1.1307(b)(2) of this part where use of time averaging is required to ensure compliance with the general population exposure limit. The phrasemeans that an exposed person is allowed and also knows how to reduce or avoid exposure by administrative or engineering work practices, such as use of personal protective equipment or time averaging of exposure.

(3) General population/uncontrolled exposure limits apply in situations in which the general public may be exposed, or in which persons who are exposed as a consequence of their employment may not be fully aware of the potential for exposure or cannot exercise control over their exposure. For example, RF sources intended for consumer use shall be subject to the limits for general population/uncontrolled exposure in this section.
