
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.1207 Rebroadcasts.
####### rebroadcast

(a) The termmeans reception by radio of the programs or other transmissions of a broadcast or any other type of radio station, and the simultaneous or subsequent retransmission of such programs or transmissions by a broadcast station.

(1) As used in this section, "program" includes any complete programs or part thereof.

(2) The transmission of a program from its point of origin to a broadcast station entirely by common carrier facilities, whether by wire line or radio, is not considered a rebroadcast.

(3) The broadcasting of a program relayed by a remote pickup broadcast station is not considered a rebroadcast.

(b) No broadcast station may retransmit the program, or any part thereof, of another U.S. broadcast station without the express authority of the originating station. A copy of the written consent of the licensee originating the program must be kept by the licensee of the station retransmitting such program and made available to the FCC upon request.

(1) Stations originating emergency communications under a State EAS plan are considered to have conferred rebroadcast authority to other participating stations.

(2) Permission must be obtained from the originating station to rebroadcast any subsidiary communications transmitted by means of a multiplex subcarrier or telecommunications service on the vertical blanking interval or in the visual signal of a television signal.

(3) Programs originated by the Voice of America (VOA) and the Armed Forces Radio and Television Services (AFRTS) cannot, in general, be cleared for domestic rebroadcast, and may therefore be retransmitted only by special arrangements among the parties concerned.

(4) Except as otherwise provided by international agreement, programs originated by foreign broadcast stations may be retransmitted without the consent of the originating station.

(c) The transmissions of non-broadcast stations may be rebroadcast under the following conditions:

(1) Messages originated by privately-owned non-broadcast stations other than those in the Amateur and CB Radio Services may be broadcast only upon receipt of prior permission from the non-broadcast licensee. Additionally, messages transmitted by common carrier stations may be rebroadcast only upon prior permission of the originator of the message as well as the station licensee.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, messages originated entirely by non-broadcast stations owned and operated by the Federal Government may be rebroadcast only upon receipt of prior permission from the government agency originating the messages.

(3) Messages originated by stations in the Amateur and CB Radio Services may be rebroadcast at the discretion of broadcast station licensees.

(4) Emergency communications originated under a State EAS plan.

(d) The rebroadcasting of time signals originated by the Naval Observatory and the National Bureau of Standards and messages from the National Weather Service stations is permitted without specific authorization under the following procedures:
