
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.1207 Rebroadcasts.
####### Coordinated Universal Time

(vii) In the rebroadcasting of NBS time signals, announcements will not state that they are standard frequency transmissions. Voice announcements ofare given in voice every minute. Each minute, except the first of the hour, begins with an 0.8 second long tone of 1000 hertz at WWV and 1200 hertz tone at WWVH. The first minute of every hour begins with an 0.8 second long tone of 1500 hertz at both stations. This tone is followed by a 3-second pause, than the announcement, "National Bureau of Standards Time." This is followed by another 3-second pause before station identification. This arrangement allows broadcast stations sufficient time to retransmit the hour time tone and the words "National Bureau of Standards Time" either by manual or automatic switching.

(viii) Time signals or scales made up from integration of standard frequency signals broadcast from NBS stations may not be designated as national standard scales of time or attributed to the NBS as originator. For example, if a broadcasting station transmits time signals obtained from a studio clock which is periodically calibrated against the NBS time signals from WWV or WWVH, such signals may not be announced as NBS standard time or as having been originated by the NBS.
