
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.1400 Transmission system monitoring and control.
####### Attended operation.

(a)(1) Attended operation consists of ongoing supervision of the transmission facilities by a station employee or other person designated by the licensee. Such supervision may be accomplished by either:

(i) Direct supervision and control of transmission system parameters by a person at the transmitter site; or

(ii) Remote control of the transmission system by a person at a studio or other location. The remote control system must provide sufficient transmission system monitoring and control capability so as to ensure compliance with ยง 73.1350.

(2) A station may also be monitored and controlled by an automatic transmission system (ATS) that is configured to contact a person designated by the licensee in the event of a technical malfunction. An automatic transmission system consists of monitoring devices, control and alarm circuitry, arranged so that they interact automatically to operate the station's transmitter and maintain technical parameters within licensed values.

(3) A hybrid system containing some remote control and some ATS features is also permissible.

(4) In the case of remote control or ATS operation, not every station parameter need be monitored or controlled if the licensee has good reason to believe that its stability is so great that its monitoring and control are unnecessary.
