
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.1560 Operating power and mode tolerances.
####### AM stations.

(a)(1) Except for AM stations using modulation dependent carrier level (MDCL) control technology, or as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, the antenna input power of an AM station, as determined by the procedures specified in ยง 73.51, must be maintained as near as practicable to the authorized antenna input power and may not be less than 90 percent nor greater than 105 percent of the authorized power. AM stations may, without prior Commission authority, commence MDCL control technology use, provided that within 10 days after commencing such operation, the licensee submits an electronic notification of commencement of MDCL control operation using FCC Form 338. The transmitter of an AM station operating using MDCL control technology, regardless of the MDCL control technology employed, must achieve full licensed power at some audio input level or when the MDCL control technology is disabled. MDCL control operation must be disabled before field strength measurements on the station are taken.

(2) Whenever the transmitter of an AM station cannot be placed into the specified operating mode at the time required, transmissions of the station must be immediately terminated. However, if the radiated field at any bearing or elevation does not exceed that permitted for that time of day, operation in the mode with the lesser radiated field may continue under the notification procedures of paragraph (d) of this section.
