
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.1660 Acceptability of broadcast transmitters.

(a)(1) An AM, FM, or TV transmitter shall be approved for compliance with the requirements of this part following the Supplier's Declaration of Conformity procedures described in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.

(2) An LPFM transmitter shall be certified for compliance with the requirements of this part following the procedures described in part 2 of this chapter.

(b) A permittee or licensee planning to modify a transmitter which has been certified or approved with Supplier's Declaration of Conformity must follow the requirements contained in ยง 73.1690.

(c) A transmitter which was in use prior to January 30, 1955, may continue to be used by the licensee, and successors or assignees, if it continues to comply with the technical requirements for the type of station at which it is used.

(d) AM stereophonic exciter-generators for interfacing with approved or verified AM transmitters may be certified upon request from any manufacturer in accordance with the procedures described in part 2 of this chapter. Broadcast licensees may modify their certified AM stereophonic exciter-generators in accordance with ยง 73.1690.

(e) Additional rules covering certification and Supplier's Declaration of Conformity, modification of authorized transmitters, and withdrawal of a grant of authorization are contained in part 2 of this chapter.
