
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.1690 Modification of transmission systems.

The following procedures and restrictions apply to licensee modifications of authorized broadcast transmission system facilities.

(a) The following changes are prohibited:

(1) Those that would result in the emission of signals outside of the authorized channel exceeding limits prescribed for the class of service.

(2) Those that would cause the transmission system to exceed the equipment performance measurements prescribed for the class of service (AM, § 73.44; FM, §§ 73.317, 73.319, and 73.322; TV and Class A TV, §§ 73.682 and 73.687).

(b) The following changes may be made only after the grant of a construction permit application on FCC Form 301 for commercial stations or Form 340 for noncommercial educational stations:

(1) Any construction of a new tower structure for broadcast purposes, except for replacement of an existing tower with a new tower of identical height and geographic coordinates.

(2) Any change in station geographic coordinates, including coordinate corrections of more than 3 seconds latitude and/or 3 seconds longitude. FM and TV directional stations must also file a construction permit application for any move of the antenna to another tower structure located at the same coordinates.

(3) Any change which would require an increase along any azimuth in the composite directional antenna pattern of an FM station from the composite directional antenna pattern authorized (see § 73.316), or any increase from the authorized directional antenna pattern for a TV broadcast (see § 73.685) or Class A TV station (see § 73.6025).
