
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.1690 Modification of transmission systems.
####### See

(4) Any change in the directional radiation characteristics of an AM directional antenna system.§ 73.45 and § 73.150.

(5) Any decrease in the authorized power of an AM station or the ERP of a TV or Class A TV station, or any decrease or increase in the ERP of an FM commercial station, which is intended for compliance with the multiple ownership rules in § 73.3555.

(6) For FM noncommercial educational stations, any of the following:

(i) Any increase in the authorized maximum ERP, whether horizontally or vertically polarized, for a noncommercial educational FM station operating on Channels 201 through 220, or a Class D FM station operating on Channel 200.

(ii) For those FM noncommercial educational stations on Channels 201 to 220, or a Class D FM station operating on Channel 200, which are within the separation distances specified in Table A of § 73.525 with respect to a Channel 6 television station, any increase in the horizontally or vertically polarized ERP from the presently authorized ERP.

(iii) For those FM noncommercial educational stations on Channels 201 through 220 which are located within the separation distances in § 73.525 with respect to a Channel 6 television station, or a Class D FM station operating on Channel 200, any decrease in the presently authorized horizontal effective radiated power which would eliminate the horizontal ERP to result in use of vertical ERP only.

(iv) For those FM noncommercial educational stations which employ separate antennas for the horizontal ERP and the vertical ERP, mounted at different heights, the station may not increase or decrease either the horizontal ERP or the vertical ERP without a construction permit.

(7) Any increase in the authorized ERP of a television station, Class A television station, FM commercial station, or noncommercial educational FM station, except as provided for in § 73.1690(c)(4), (c)(5), or (c)(7), or in § 73.1675(c)(1) in the case of auxiliary facilities.
