
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.1690 Modification of transmission systems.
####### see

(8) A commercial TV or noncommercial educational TV station operating on Channels 14 or a Class A TV station on Channel 14 may increase its horizontally or vertically polarized ERP only after the grant of a construction permit. A television or Class A television station on Channels 15 through 21 within 341 km of a cochannel land mobile operation, or 225 km of a first-adjacent channel land mobile operation, must also obtain a construction permit before increasing the horizontally or vertically polarized ERP (§ 74.709(a) and (b) of this chapter for tables of urban areas and corresponding reference coordinates of potentially affected land mobile operations).

(9) Any change in the community of license, where the proposed new facilities are the same as, or would be mutually exclusive with, the licensee's or permittee's present assignment.

(c) The following FM, TV and Class A TV station modifications may be made without prior authorization from the Commission. A modification of license application must be submitted to the Commission within 10 days of commencing program test operations pursuant to § 73.1620. With the exception of applications filed solely pursuant to paragraphs (c)(6), (c)(9), or (c)(10) of this section, the modification of license application must contain an exhibit demonstrating compliance with the Commission's radio frequency radiation guidelines. In addition, except for applications solely filed pursuant to paragraphs (c)(6) or (c)(9) of this section, where the installation is located on or near an AM tower, as defined in § 1.30002, an exhibit demonstrating compliance with § 1.30003 or § 1.30002, as applicable, is also required.

(1) Replacement of an omnidirectional antenna with one of the same or different number of antenna bays, provided that the height of the antenna radiation center is not more than 2 meters above or 4 meters below the authorized values. Any concurrent change in ERP must comply with § 73.1675(c)(1), 73.1690(4), (c)(5), or (c)(7). Program test operations at the full authorized ERP may commence immediately upon installation pursuant to § 73.1620(a)(1).
