
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.1690 Modification of transmission systems.
####### see

(4) Commercial and noncommercial educational FM stations operating on Channels 221 through 300 (except Class D), Class A TV stations operating on Channels 2 through 13 and 22 through 36, and TV and Class A TV stations operating on Channels 15 through 21 that are in excess of 341 km (212 miles) from a cochannel land mobile operation or in excess of 225 km (140 miles) from a first-adjacent channel land mobile operation (§ 74.709(a) and (b) of this chapter for tables of urban areas and reference coordinates of potentially affected land mobile operations), which operate omnidirectionally, may increase the vertically polarized effective radiated power up to the authorized horizontally polarized effective radiated power in a license modification application. Noncommercial educational FM licensees and permittees on Channels 201 through 220, that do not use separate antennas mounted at different heights for the horizontally polarized ERP and the vertically polarized ERP, and are located in excess of the separations from a Channel 6 television station listed in Table A of § 73.525(a)(1), may also increase the vertical ERP, up to (but not exceeding) the authorized horizontally polarized ERP via a license modification application. Program test operations may commence at full power pursuant to § 73.1620(a)(1).

(5) Those Class A FM commercial stations which were permitted to increase ERP pursuant to MM Docket No. 88-375 by a modification of license application remain eligible to do so, provided that the station meets the requirements of § 73.1690 (c)(1) and is listed on one of the Public Notices as authorized to increase ERP, or by a letter from the Commission's staff authorizing the change. These Public Notices were released on November 3, 1989; November 17, 1989; December 8, 1989; March 2, 1990; and February 11, 1991. The increased ERP must comply with the multiple ownership requirements of § 73.3555. Program test operations may commence at full power pursuant to § 73.1620(a)(1).

(6) FM contour protection stations authorized pursuant to § 73.215 which have become fully spaced under § 73.207 may file a modification of license application to delete the § 73.215 contour protection designation with an exhibit to demonstrate that the station is fully spaced in accordance with § 73.207. The contour protection designation will be removed upon grant of the license application. Applications filed under this rule section will be processed on a first come / first served basis with respect to conflicting FM commercial minor change applications and modification of license applications (including those filed pursuant to § 73.1690 (b) and (c)(6) and (c)(7)).

(7) FM omnidirectional commercial stations, and omnidirectional noncommercial educational FM stations operating on Channels 221 through 300 (except Class D), which are not designated as contour protection stations pursuant to § 73.215 and which meet the spacing requirements of § 73.207, may file a license modification application to increase ERP to the maximum permitted for the station class, provided that any change in the height of the antenna radiation center remains in accordance with § 73.1690(c)(1). Program test operations may commence at full power pursuant to § 73.1620(a)(1). All of the following conditions also must be met before a station may apply pursuant to this section:

(i) The station may not be a "grandfathered" short-spaced station authorized pursuant to § 73.213 or short-spaced by a granted waiver of § 73.207;

(ii) If the station is located in or near a radio quiet zone, radio coordination zone, or a Commission monitoring station (see § 73.1030 and § 0.121(c) of this chapter), the licensee or permittee must have secured written concurrence from the affected radio quiet zone, radio coordination zone, or the Commission's Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau in the case of a monitoring station, to increase effective radiated power PRIOR to implementation. A copy of that concurrence must be submitted with the license application to document that concurrence has been received;

(iii) The station does not require international coordination as the station does not lie within the border zones, or clearance has been obtained from Canada or Mexico for the higher power operation within the station's specified domestic class and the station complies with § 73.207(b)(2) and (3) with respect to foreign allotments and allocations;

(iv) The increased ERP will not cause the station to violate the multiple ownership requirements of § 73.3555.

(8) FM commercial stations and FM noncommercial educational stations may decrease ERP on a modification of license application provided that exhibits are included to demonstrate that all five of the following requirements are met:

(i) Commercial FM stations must continue to provide a 70 dBu principal community contour over the community of license, as required by § 73.315(a). Noncommercial educational FM stations must continue to provide a 60 dBu contour over at least 50 percent of its community of license or reach 50 percent of the population within the community. The 60 and 70 dBu contours must be predicted by use of the standard contour prediction method in § 73.313(b), (c), and (d).

(ii) For commercial FM stations only, there is no change in the authorized station class as defined in § 73.211.

(iii) For commercial FM stations only, the power decrease is not necessary to achieve compliance with the multiple ownership rule, § 73.3555.

(iv) Commercial FM stations, noncommercial educational FM stations on Channels 221 through 300, and noncommercial educational FM stations on Channels 200 through 220 which are located in excess of the distances in Table A of § 73.525 with respect to a Channel 6 TV station, may not use this rule to decrease the horizontally polarized ERP below the value of the vertically polarized ERP.

(v) Noncommercial educational FM stations on Channels 201 through 220 which are within the Table A distance separations of § 73.525, or Class D stations on Channel 200, may not use the license modification process to eliminate an authorized horizontally polarized component in favor of vertically polarized-only operation. In addition, noncommercial educational stations operating on Channels 201 through 220, or Class D stations on Channel 200, which employ separate horizontally and vertically polarized antennas mounted at different heights, may not use the license modification process to increase or decrease either the horizontal ERP or vertical ERP without a construction permit.

(9) The licensee of an AM, FM, or TV commercial station may propose to change from commercial to noncommercial educational on a modification of license application, provided that the application contains completed Sections II and IV of FCC Form 340. In addition, a noncommercial educational AM licensee, a TV licensee on a channel not reserved for noncommercial educational use, or an FM licensee on Channels 221 to 300 (except Class D FM) on a channel not reserved for noncommercial educational use, may apply to change from educational to commercial via a modification of license application, and no exhibits are required with the application. The change will become effective upon grant of the license application.

(10) Replacement of a transmission line with one of a different type or length which changes the transmitter operating power (TPO) from the authorized value, but not the ERP, must be reported in a license modification application to the Commission.

(11) Correction of geographic coordinates where the change is 3 seconds or fewer in latitude and/or 3 seconds or fewer in longitude, provided there is no physical change in location and no other licensed parameters are changed. The correction of coordinates may not result in any new short spacings or increases in existing short spacings.

(d) The following changes may be made without authorization from the FCC, however informal notification of the changes must be made according to the rule sections specified:

(1) Commencement of remote control operation pursuant to § 73.1400.

(2) Modification of an AM directional antenna sampling system. See § 73.68.

(e) Any electrical and mechanical modification to authorized transmitting equipment that is not otherwise restricted by the preceding provisions of this section, may be made without FCC notification or authorization. Equipment performance measurements must be made within ten days after completing the modifications (See § 73.1590). An informal statement, diagram, etc., describing the modification must be retained at the transmitter site for as long as the equipment is in use.
