
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3522 Amendment of applications.
####### Broadcast services subject to competitive bidding.

(a)(1) Applicants in all broadcast services subject to competitive bidding will be subject to the provisions of §§ 73.5002 and 1.2105(b) regarding the modification of their short-form applications.

(2) Subject to the provision of § 73.5005, if it is determined that a long form application submitted by a winning bidder or a non-mutually exclusive applicant for a new station or a major change in an existing station in all broadcast services subject to competitive bidding is substantially complete, but contains any defect, omission, or inconsistency, a deficiency letter will be issued affording the applicant an opportunity to correct the defect, omission or inconsistency. Amendments may be filed pursuant to the deficiency letter curing any defect, omission or inconsistency identified by the Commission, or to make minor modifications to the application, or pursuant to § 1.65. Such amendments should be filed in accordance with § 73.3513. If a petition to deny has been filed, the amendment shall be served on the petitioner.

(3) Subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3571, 73.3572 and 73.3573, deficiencies, omissions or inconsistencies in long-form applications may not be cured by major amendment. The filing of major amendments to long-form applications is not permitted. An application will be considered to be newly filed if it is amended by a major amendment.

(4) Paragraph (a) of this section is not applicable to applications for minor modifications of facilities in the non-reserved FM broadcast service, nor to any application for a reserved band FM station.
