
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3571 Processing of AM broadcast station applications.

(a) Applications for AM broadcast facilities are divided into three groups.

(1) In the first group are applications for new stations or for major changes in the facilities of authorized stations. A major change for an AM station authorized under this part is any change in frequency, except frequency changes to non-expanded band first, second or third adjacent channels. A major change in ownership is a situation where the original party or parties to the application do not retain more than 50% ownership interest in the application as originally filed. A major change in community of license is one in which the applicant's daytime facilities at the proposed community are not mutually exclusive, as defined in § 73.37, with the applicant's current daytime facilities, or any change in community of license of an AM station in the 1605-1705 kHz band. All other changes will be considered minor.

(2) The second group consists of applications for licenses and all other changes in the facilities of authorized stations.

(3) The third group consists of applications for operation in the 1605-1705 kHz band which are filed subsequent to FCC notification that allotments have been awarded to petitioners under the procedure specified in § 73.30.

(b)(1) The FCC may, after acceptance of an application for modification of facilities, advise the applicant that such application is considered to be one for a major change and therefore is subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3522, 73.3580 and 1.1111 of this chapter pertaining to major changes. Such major modification applications will be dismissed as set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) An amendment to an application which would effect a major change, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, will not be accepted except as provided for in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.

(c) An application for changes in the facilities of an existing station will continue to carry the same file number even though (pursuant to FCC approval) an assignment of license or transfer of control of said licensee or permittee has taken place if, upon consummation, the application is amended to reflect the new ownership.

(d) If, upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served by the granting of an application, the same will be granted. If the FCC is unable to make such a finding and it appears that a hearing may be required, the procedure set forth in § 73.3593 will be followed.

(e) Applications proposing to increase the power of an AM station are subject to the following requirements:

(1) In order to be acceptable for filing, any application which does not involve a change in site must propose at least a 20% increase in the station's nominal power.

(2) Applications involving a change in site are not subject to the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(3) Applications for nighttime power increases for Class D stations are not subject to the requirements of this section and will be processed as minor changes.

(4) The following special procedures will be followed in authorizing Class II-D daytime-only stations on 940 and 1550 kHz, and Class III daytime-only stations on the 41 regional channels listed in § 73.26(a), to operate unlimited-time.

(i) Each eligible daytime-only station in the foregoing categories will receive an Order to Show Cause why its license should not be modified to specify operation during nighttime hours with the facilities it is licensed to start using at local sunrise, using the power stated in the Order to Show Cause, that the Commission finds is the highest nighttime level-not exceeding 0.5 kW-at which the station could operate without causing prohibited interference to other domestic or foreign stations, or to co-channel or adjacent channel stations for which pending applications were filed before December 1, 1987.

(ii) Stations accepting such modification shall be reclassified. Those authorized in such Show Cause Orders to operate during nighttime hours with a power of 0.25 kW or more, or with a power that, although less than 0.25 kW, is sufficient to enable them to attain RMS field strengths of 141 mV/m or more at 1 kilometer, shall be redesignated as Class II-B stations if they are assigned to 940 or 1550 kHz, and as unlimited-time Class III stations if they are assigned to regional channels.

(iii) Stations accepting such modification that are authorized to operate during nighttime hours at powers less than 0.25 kW, and that cannot with such powers attain RMS field strengths of 141 mV/m or more at 1 kilometer, shall be redesignated as Class II-S stations if they are assigned to 940 or 1550 kHz, and as Class III-S stations if they are assigned to regional channels.

(iv) Applications for new stations may be filed at any time on 940 and 1550 kHz and on the regional channels. Also, stations assigned to 940 or 1550 kHz, or to the regional channels, may at any time, regardless of their classifications, apply for power increases up to the maximum generally permitted. Such applications for new or changed facilities will be granted without taking into account interference caused to Class II-S or Class III-S stations, but will be required to show interference protection to other classes of stations, including stations that were previously classified as Class II-S or Class III-S, but were later reclassified as Class II-B or Class III unlimited-time stations as a result of subsequent facilities modifications that permitted power increases qualifying them to discontinue their "S" subclassification.

(f) Applications for minor modifications for AM broadcast stations, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may be filed at any time, unless restricted by the FCC, and will be processed on a "first come/first served" basis, with the first acceptable application cutting off the filing rights of subsequent, conflicting applicants. The FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing those applications accepted for filing. Applications received on the same day will be treated as simultaneously filed and, if they are found to be mutually exclusive, must be resolved through settlement or technical amendment. Conflicting applications received after the filing of a first acceptable application will be grouped, according to filing date, behind the lead application in a queue. The priority rights of the lead applicant, against all other applicants, are determined by the date of filing, but the filing date for subsequent, conflicting applicants only reserves a place in the queue. The rights of an applicant in a queue ripen only upon a final determination that the lead applicant is unacceptable and if the queue member is reached and found acceptable. The queue will remain behind the lead applicant until a construction permit is finally granted, at which time the queue dissolves.

(g) Applications for change of license to change hours of operation of a Class C AM broadcast station, to decrease hours of operation of any other class of station, or to change station location involving no change in transmitter site will be considered without reference to the processing line.
