
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3571 Processing of AM broadcast station applications.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(4)(i) The auction will be held pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 1.2101and 73.5000Subsequent to the auction, the FCC will release a Public Notice announcing the close of the auction and identifying the winning bidders. Winning bidders will be subject to the provisions of § 1.2107 of this chapter regarding down payments and will be required to submit the appropriate down payment within 10 business days of the Public Notice. Pursuant to § 1.2107 of this chapter and § 73.5005, a winning bidder that meets its down payment obligations in a timely manner must, within 30 days of the release of the Public Notice announcing the close of the auction, submit the appropriate long-form application for each construction permit for which it was the winning bidder. Long-form applications filed by winning bidders shall include the exhibits identified in § 73.5005(a).

(ii) Winning bidders are required to pay the balance of their winning bids in a lump sum prior to the deadline established by the Commission pursuant to § 1.2109(a). Long-form construction permit applications will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such applications that have been accepted for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.5006 and 73.3584. Construction permits will be granted by the Commission only after full and timely payment of winning bids and any applicable late fees, and if the applicant is duly qualified, and upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served.

(iii) All long-form applications will be cutoff as of the date of filing with the FCC and will be protected from subsequently filed long-form applications. Applications will be required to protect all previously filed commercial and noncommercial applications. Subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (k) of this section, winning bidders filing long-form applications may change the technical proposals specified in their previously submitted short-form applications, but such change may not constitute a major change. If the submitted long-form application would constitute a major change from the proposal submitted in the short-form application, the long-form application will be returned pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.

(i) In order to grant a major or minor change application made contingent upon the grant of another licensee's request for a facility modification, the Commission will not consider mutually exclusive applications by other parties that would not protect the currently authorized facilities of the contingent applicants. Such major change applications remain, however, subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3580 and 1.1111. The Commission shall grant contingent requests for construction permits for station modifications only upon a finding that such action will promote the public interest, convenience and necessity.

(j) Applications proposing to change the community of license of an AM station, except for an AM station in the 1605-1705 kHz band, are considered to be minor modifications under paragraphs (a)(2) and (f) of this section, and are subject to the following requirements:

(1) The applicant must attach an exhibit to its application containing information demonstrating that the proposed community of license change constitutes a preferential arrangement of assignments under Section 307(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 307(b));

(2) The daytime facilities specified by the applicant at the proposed community of license must be mutually exclusive, as defined in § 73.37, with the applicant's current daytime facilities; and

(3) The applicant must comply with the local public notice provisions of § 73.3580(c)(5).

(k)(1) An AM applicant receiving a dispositive Section 307(b) preference is required to construct and operate technical facilities substantially as proposed in its FCC Form 175. An AM applicant, licensee, or permittee receiving a dispositive Section 307(b) preference based on its proposed service to underserved populations (under Priority (1), Priority (2), and Priority (4)) or service totals (under Priority (4)) may modify its facilities so long as it continues to provide the same priority service to substantially the same number of persons who would have received service under the initial proposal, even if the population is not the same population that would have received such service under the initial proposal. For purposes of this provision, "substantially" means that any proposed modification must not result in a decrease of more than 20 percent of any population figure that was a material factor in obtaining the dispositive Section 307(b) preference.

(2) An AM applicant, licensee, or permittee that has received a dispositive preference under Priority (3) will be prohibited from changing its community of license.

(3) The restrictions set forth in paragraphs (k)(1) and (k)(2) of this section will be applied for a period of four years of on-air operations. This holding period does not apply to construction permits that are awarded on a non-comparative basis, such as those awarded to non-mutually exclusive applicants or through settlement.
