
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3572 Processing of TV broadcast, Class A TV broadcast, low power TV, TV translators, and TV booster applications.
####### See

(v) Provided further, that the FCC may, within 15 days after acceptance of any other application for modification of facilities, advise the applicant that such application is considered to be one for a major change and therefore subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3522, 73.3580, and 1.1111 of this chapter pertaining to major changes. Such major modification applications filed for Class A TV, low power TV, TV translator, TV booster stations, and for a non-reserved television allotment, are subject to competitive bidding procedures and will be dismissed if filed outside a specified filing period.47 CFR 73.5002(a).

(b)(1) A new file number will be assigned to an application for a new station or for major changes in the facilities of an authorized station, when it is amended so as to effect a major change, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or result in a situation where the original party or parties to the application do not retain more than 50 percent ownership interest in the application as originally filed, and § 73.3580 will apply to such amended application. However, such change in ownership is minor if:

(i) The governing board change in a nonstock or membership noncommercial educational (NCE) full power television applicant occurred over a period of six months or longer; or

(ii) The governing board change in a nonstock or membership NCE full power television applicant occurred over a period of less than six months and there is no evidence of a takeover concern or a significant effect on such organization's mission.

(2) All changes in a governmental applicant are considered minor.

(3) An application for change in the facilities of any existing station will continue to carry the same file number even though (pursuant to FCC approval) an assignment of license or transfer of control of such licensee or permittee has taken place if, upon consummation, the application is amended to reflect the new ownership.

(c) Amendments to Class A TV, low power TV, TV translator, TV booster stations, or non-reserved television applications, which would require a new file number pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, are subject to competitive bidding procedures and will be dismissed if filed outside a specified filing period. See 47 CFR 73.5002(a). When an amendment to an application for a reserved television allotment would require a new file number pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the applicant will have the opportunity to withdraw the amendment at any time prior to designation for a hearing if applicable; and may be afforded, subject to the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, an opportunity to withdraw the amendment after designation for a hearing.

(d)(1) The FCC will specify by Public Notice, a period for filing applications for new television stations on reserved noncommercial educational channels or for major modifications in the facilities of an authorized station on reserved channels. TV reserved channel applications for new facilities or for major modifications will be accepted only during the appropriate filing period or "window." Applications submitted prior to the window opening date identified in the Public Notice will be returned as premature. Applications submitted after the specified deadline will be dismissed with prejudice as untimely. Mutually exclusive applications for reserved channel television stations will be resolved using the point system in subpart K of this part.

(2) Concurrently with the filing of a new or major modification application for a reserved noncommercial educational channel, the applicant shall submit to the FCC's public reference room and to a local public inspection file consistent with § 73.3527(e)(2), supporting documentation of points claimed, as described in the application form.

(e) The FCC will specify by Public Notice a period for filing applications for a new non-reserved television, low power TV and TV translator stations or for major modifications in the facilities of such authorized stations, whether for commercial broadcast stations or noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6), and major modifications in the facilities of Class A TV stations.

(f) Applications for minor modification of Class A TV, low power TV, TV translator and TV booster stations may be filed at any time, unless restricted by the FCC, and will be processed on a "first-come/first-served" basis, with the first acceptable application cutting off the filing rights of subsequent, competing applicants. Provided, however, that applications for minor modifications of Class A TV and those of TV broadcast stations may become mutually exclusive until grant of a pending Class A TV or TV broadcast minor modification application.

(g) TV booster station applications may be filed at any time. Subsequent to filing, the FCC will release a Public Notice accepting for filing and proposing for grant those applications which are not mutually exclusive with any other TV translator, low power TV, TV booster, or Class A TV application, and providing for the filing of Petitions To Deny pursuant to § 73.3584.

(h) Class A TV station licensees shall file a license application for either the flash cut channel or the digital companion channel they choose to retain for post-transition digital operations. Class A TV stations will retain primary, protected regulatory status on their desired post-transition digital channel. Class A TV applicants must certify that their proposed post-transition digital facilities meet all Class A TV interference protection requirements.
