
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3573 Processing FM broadcast station applications.

(a) Applications for FM broadcast stations are divided into two groups:

(1) In the first group are applications for new stations or for major changes of authorized stations. A major change in ownership is one in which the original party or parties to the application do not retain more than 50 percent ownership interest in the application as originally filed, except that such change in ownership is minor if: The governing board change in a nonstock or membership NCE applicant occurred over a period of six months or longer or the governing board change in a nonstock or membership NCE applicant occurred over a period of less than six months and there is no evidence of a takeover concern or a significant effect on such organization's mission. All changes in a governmental applicant are considered minor. In the case of a Class D or an NCE FM reserved band channel station, a major facility change is any change in antenna location which would not continue to provide a 1 mV/m service to some portion of its previously authorized 1 mV/m service area. In the case of a Class D station, a major facility change is any change in community of license or any change in frequency other than to a first-, second-, or third-adjacent channel. A major facility change for a commercial or a noncommercial educational full service FM station, a winning auction bidder, or a tentative selectee authorized or determined under this part is any change in frequency or community of license which is not in accord with its current assignment, except for the following:

(i) A change in community of license which complies with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section;

(ii) A change to a higher or lower class co-channel, first-, second-, or third-adjacent channel, or intermediate frequency;

(iii) A change to a same-class first-, second-, or third-adjacent channel, or intermediate frequency;

(iv) A channel substitution, subject to the provisions of Section 316 of the Communications Act for involuntary channel substitutions.

(2) The second group consists of applications for licenses and all other changes in the facilities of authorized stations.

(b)(1) The FCC may, after the acceptance of an application for modification of facilities, advise the applicant that such application is considered to be one for a major change and therefore subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3522, 73.3580 and 1.1111 of this chapter pertaining to major changes. Such major modification applications in the non-reserved band will be dismissed as set forth in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.

(2) An amendment to a non-reserved band application which would effect a major change, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, will not be accepted, except as provided for in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) A new file number will be assigned to a reserved band application for a new station or for major changes in the facilities of an authorized station, when it is amended so as to effect a major change, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Where an amendment to a reserved band application would require a new file number, the applicant will have the opportunity to withdraw the amendment at any time prior to designation for hearing, if applicable; and may be afforded, subject to the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, an opportunity to withdraw the amendment after designation for hearing.

(c) An application for changes in the facilities of any existing station will continue to carry the same file number even though (pursuant to FCC approval) an assignment of license or transfer of control of such licensee or permittee has taken place if, upon consummation, the application is amended to reflect the new ownership.

(d) If, upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served by the granting of an application for FM broadcast facilities, the same will be granted. If the FCC is unable to make such a finding and it appears that a hearing may be required, the procedure given in § 73.3593 will be followed. In the case of mutually exclusive applications for reserved channels, the procedures in subpart K of this part will be followed. In the case of mutually exclusive applications for unreserved channels, the procedures in subpart I of this part will be followed.
