
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3573 Processing FM broadcast station applications.
####### Processing non-reserved FM broadcast station applications.

(f)(1) Applications for minor modifications for non-reserved FM broadcast stations, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may be filed at any time, unless restricted by the FCC, and, generally, will be processed in the order in which they are tendered. The FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing those applications accepted for filing. Processing of these applications will be on a "first come/first serve" basis with the first acceptable application cutting off the filing rights of subsequent applicants. All applications received on the same day will be treated as simultaneously tendered and, if they are found to be mutually exclusive, must be resolved through settlement or technical amendment. Applications received after the tender of a lead application will be grouped, according to filing date, behind the lead application in a queue. The priority rights of the lead applicant, as against all other applicants, are determined by the date of filing, but the filing date for subsequent applicants for that channel and community only reserves a place in the queue. The rights of an applicant in a queue ripen only upon a final determination that the lead applicant is unacceptable and if the queue member is reached and found acceptable. The queue will remain behind the lead applicant until a construction permit is finally granted, at which time the queue dissolves.

(2)(i) The FCC will specify by Public Notice, pursuant to § 73.5002(a), a period for filing non-reserved band FM applications for a new station or for major modifications in the facilities of an authorized station. FM applications for new facilities or for major modifications, whether for commercial broadcast stations or noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6), will be accepted only during the appropriate filing period or "window." Applications submitted prior to the window opening date identified in the Public Notice will be returned as premature. Applications submitted after the specified deadline will be dismissed with prejudice as untimely.

(ii) Such FM applicants will be subject to the provisions of §§ 1.2105 and 73.5002 regarding the submission of the short-form application, FCC Form 175, and all appropriate certifications, information and exhibits contained therein. FM applicants may submit a set of preferred site coordinates as a supplement to the short-form application. Any specific site indicated by FM applicants will not be studied for technical acceptability, but will be protected from subsequently filed applications as a full-class facility as of the close of the window filing period. Determinations as to the acceptability or grantability of an applicant's proposal will not be made prior to an auction.

(iii) FM applicants will be subject to the provisions of §§ 1.2105 and 73.5002(c) regarding the modification and dismissal of their short-form applications.

(3) Subsequently, the FCC will release Public Notices:

(i) Identifying the short-form applications received during the window filing period which are found to be mutually exclusive, including any applications for noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6), as well as the procedures the FCC will use to resolve the mutually exclusive applications;

(ii) Establishing a date, time and place for an auction;

(iii) Providing information regarding the methodology of competitive bidding to be used in the upcoming auction, bid submission and payment procedures, upfront payment procedures, upfront payment deadlines, minimum opening bid requirements and applicable reserve prices in accordance with the provisions of § 73.5002;

(iv) Identifying applicants who have submitted timely upfront payments and, thus, are qualified to bid in the auction.

(4) If, after the close of the appropriate window filing period, a non-reserved FM allotment remains vacant, the window remains closed until the FCC, by Public Notice, specifies a subsequent period for filing non-reserved band FM applications for a new station or for major modifications in the facilities of an authorized station pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section. After the close of the filing window, the FCC will also release a Public Notice identifying the short-form applications which are found to be non-mutually exclusive, including any applications for noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6). These non-mutually exclusive applicants will be required to submit the appropriate long-form application within 30 days of the Public Notice and, for applicants for commercial broadcast stations, pursuant to the provisions of § 73.5005(d). Non-mutually exclusive applications for commercial broadcast stations will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such non-mutually exclusive applications determined to be acceptable for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.5006 and 73.3584. Non-mutually exclusive applications for noncommercial educational broadcast stations, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6), will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such non-mutually exclusive applications determined to be acceptable for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.7004 and 73.3584. If the applicant is duly qualified, and upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience, and necessity will be served by the granting of the non-mutually exclusive long-form application, it will be granted.

(5)(i) Pursuant to § 1.2107 of this chapter and § 73.5005, a winning bidder that meets its down payment obligations in a timely manner must, within 30 days of the release of the public notice announcing the close of the auction, submit the appropriate long-form application for each construction permit for which it was the winning bidder. Long-form applications filed by winning bidders shall include the exhibits identified in § 73.5005(a).

(ii) Winning bidders are required to pay the balance of their winning bids in a lump sum prior to the deadline established by the Commission pursuant to § 1.2109(a) of this chapter. Long-form construction permit applications will be processed and the FCC will periodically release a Public Notice listing such applications that have been accepted for filing and announcing a date by which petitions to deny must be filed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 73.5006 and 73.3584. Construction permits will be granted by the Commission only after full and timely payment of winning bids and any applicable late fees, and if the applicant is duly qualified, and upon examination, the FCC finds that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served.

(iii) All long-form applications will be cut-off as of the date of filing with the FCC and will be protected from subsequently filed long-form applications and rulemaking petitions. Applications will be required to protect all previously filed commercial and noncommercial applications. Winning bidders filing long-form applications may change the technical proposals specified in their previously submitted short-form applications, but such change may not constitute a major change. If the submitted long-form application would constitute a major change from the proposal submitted in the short-form application or the allotment, the long-form application will be returned pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.

(6)(i) When a non-reserved channel FM allotment is added to the Table of FM Allotments using the Tribal Priority described in Note 5 to this section, the FCC will specify by Public Notice a window filing period during which only those applicants that satisfy all of the eligibility criteria listed in Note 5 to this section with regard to the specific Tribal Priority FM allotment(s) listed in the Public Notice may file a long-form application for the Tribal Priority FM allotment. Only applications from applicants meeting the "threshold qualifications" listed in Note 5 will be accepted during this window filing period.
