
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### § 73.3580 Local public notice of filing of broadcast applications.
####### Applications for which local public notice is not required.

(d)The following types of applications are not subject to the local public notice provisions of this section:

(1) A minor change in the facilities of an authorized station, as indicated in §§ 73.3571, 73.3572, 73.3573, and 73.3574, and 74.787(b) of this chapter, except a minor change to designate a different community of license for an AM or FM radio broadcast station, pursuant to the provisions of §§ 73.3571(j) and 73.3573(g).

(2) Consent to an involuntary assignment or transfer or to a voluntary assignment or transfer which does not result in a change of control and which may be applied for on FCC Form 316, or any successor form released in the future, pursuant to the provisions of § 73.3540(b).

(3) A license under section 319(c) of the Communications Act or, pending application for or grant of such license, any special or temporary authorization to permit interim operation to facilitate completion of authorized construction or to provide substantially the same service as would be authorized by such license.

(4) Extension of time to complete construction of authorized facilities.

(5) An authorization of facilities for remote pickup or studio links for use in the operation of a broadcast station.

(6) Authorization pursuant to section 325(c) of the Communications Act (Studio Delivering Programs to a Foreign Station) where the programs to be transmitted are special events not of a continuing nature.

(7) An authorization under any of the proviso clauses of section 308(a) of the Communications Act concerning applications for and conditions in licenses.
