
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Rules Applicable to All Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.3700 Post-incentive auction licensing and operation.
####### Notice to MVPDs.

(d)(1) Licensees of transitioning stations must provide notice to MVPDs that:

(i) No longer will be required to carry the station because it will cease operations or because of the relocation of a channel sharee station;

(ii) Currently carry and will continue to be obligated to carry a station that will have a new post-auction channel assignment; or

(iii) Will become obligated to carry a station due to the relocation of a channel sharee station.

(2) The notice to MVPDs must be provided in the form of a letter notification and must contain the following information:

(i) Date and time of any channel changes;

(ii) Pre-auction and post-auction channels;

(iii) Modification (if any) to antenna position, location or power levels;

(iv) Stream identification information for channel sharing stations; and

(v) Engineering staff contact information.

(3) Should any of the information in (d)(2) of this section change during the time that the station is transitioning from its pre-auction to its post-auction channel, an amended notification must be sent.

(4) For cable systems, the notification letter must be addressed to the system's official address of record provided in the cable system's most recent filing in the Commission's Cable Operations and Licensing System (COALS) Form 322. For all other MVPDs, the notification letter must be addressed to the official corporate address registered with their State of incorporation.

(5) Notification letters must be sent within the following time frames:

(i) For license relinquishment stations, not less than 30 days prior to terminating operations;

(ii) For channel sharee stations, not less than 30 days prior to terminating operations of the pre-auction channel;

(iii) For channel sharee and channel sharer stations, not less than 30 days prior to initiation of operations on the shared channel; and

(iv) For reassigned stations, UHF-to-VHF stations, and High-VHF-to-Low-VHF stations, not less than 90 days prior to the date on which they will begin operations on their post-auction channel.

(v) If a station's anticipated transition date changes due to an unforeseen delay or change in transition plan, the licensee must send a further notice to affected MVPDs informing them of the new anticipated transition date.
