
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 0 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION
##### Subpart C - General Information
###### General
####### ยง 0.406 The rules and regulations.
######## Part 1 of this chapter, practice and procedure.,ex parte

(2)Part 1, subpart A, of this chapter contains the general rules of practice and procedure. Except as expressly provided to the contrary, these rules are applicable in all Commission proceedings and should be of interest to all persons having business with the Commission. Part 1, subpart A of this chapter also contains certain other miscellaneous provisions. Part 1, subpart B, of this chapter contains the procedures applicable in formal hearing proceedings (see ยง 1.201 of this chapter). Part 1, subpart C, of this chapter contains the procedures followed in making or revising the rule or regulations. Part 1, subpart D, of this chapter contains rules applicable to applications for licenses in the Broadcast Radio Services, including the forms to be used, the filing requirements, the procedures for processing and acting upon such applications, and certain other matters. Part 1, subpart E, of this chapter contains general rules and procedures applicable to common carriers. Part 1, subpart F, of this chapter contain rules applicable to applications for licenses in the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau services, including the forms to be used, the filing requirements, the procedures for processing and acting on such applications, and certain other matters. Part 1, subpart F, of this chapter contains rules applicable to applications for licenses in the Private Radio Services, including the forms to be used, the filing requirements, the procedures for processing and acting on such applications, and certain other matters. Part 1, subpart G, of this chapter contains rules pertaining to the application processing fees established by the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-272, 100 Stat. 82 (1986)) and also contains rules pertaining to the regulatory fees established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103-66, 107 Stat. 397 (1993)). Part 1, subpart H, of this chapter, concerningpresentations, sets forth standards governing communications with commission personnel in hearing proceedings and contested application proceedings. Part 1, subparts G and H, of this chapter will be of interest to all regulatees, and part 1, subpart H, of this chapter will, in addition, be of interest to all persons involved in hearing proceedings.
