
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Class A Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.6028 Class A television channel sharing outside the incentive auction.
####### Notice to cable systems.

(g)(1) Stations participating in channel sharing agreements must provide notice to cable systems that:

(i) No longer will be required to carry the station because of the relocation of the station;

(ii) Currently carry and will continue to be obligated to carry a station that will change channels; or

(iii) Will become obligated to carry the station due to a channel sharing relocation.

(2) The notice required by this section must contain the following information:

(i) Date and time of any channel changes;

(ii) The channel occupied by the station before and after implementation of the CSA;

(iii) Modification, if any, to antenna position, location, or power levels;

(iv) Stream identification information; and

(v) Engineering staff contact information.

(3) Should any of the information in paragraph (g)(2) of this section change, an amended notification must be sent.

(4) Sharee stations must provide notice as required by this section at least 90 days prior to terminating operations on the sharee's channel. Sharer stations and sharee stations must provide notice as required by this section at least 90 days prior to initiation of operations on the sharer channel. Should the anticipated date to either cease operations or commence channel sharing operations change, the stations must send a further notice to affected cable systems informing them of the new anticipated date(s).

(5) Notifications provided to cable systems pursuant to this section must be either mailed to the system's official address of record provided in the cable system's most recent filing in the FCC's Cable Operations and Licensing System (COALS) Form 322, or emailed to the system if the system has provided an email address.
