
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart J - Class A Television Broadcast Stations
###### ยง 73.6029 Class A television simulcasting during the ATSC 3.0 (Next Gen TV) transition.
####### Notice to MVPDs.

(h)(1) Next Gen TV stations relocating their ATSC 1.0 signals (e.g., moving to a temporary host station's facilities, subsequently moving to a different host, or returning to its original facility) must provide notice to MVPDs that:

(i) No longer will be required to carry the station's ATSC 1.0 signal due to the relocation; or

(ii) Carry and will continue to be obligated to carry the station's ATSC 1.0 signal from the new location.

(2) The notice required by this section must contain the following information:

(i) Date and time of any ATSC 1.0 channel changes;

(ii) The ATSC 1.0 channel occupied by the station before and after commencement of local simulcasting;

(iii) Modification, if any, to antenna position, location, or power levels;

(iv) Stream identification information; and

(v) Engineering staff contact information.

(3) If any of the information in paragraph (h)(2) of this section changes, an amended notification must be sent.

(4)(i) Next Gen TV stations must provide notice as required by this section:

(A) At least 120 days in advance of relocating their ATSC 1.0 signals if the relocation occurs during the post-incentive auction transition period; or

(B) At least 90 days in advance of relocating their ATSC 1.0 signals if the relocation occurs after the post-incentive auction transition period.

(ii) If the anticipated date of the ATSC 1.0 signal relocation changes, the station must send a further notice to affected MVPDs informing them of the new anticipated date.

(5) Next Gen TV stations may choose whether to provide notice as required by this section either by a letter notification or electronically via email if the relevant MVPD agrees to receive such notices by email. Letter notifications to MVPDs must be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the MVPD's address in the FCC's Online Public Inspection File (OPIF), if the MVPD has an online file. For cable systems that do not have an online file, notices may be sent to the cable system's official address of record provided in the system's most recent filing in the FCC's Cable Operations and Licensing System (COALS). For MVPDs with no official address in OPIF or COALS, the letter must be sent to the MVPD's official corporate address registered with their State of incorporation.
