
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 73 - RADIO BROADCAST SERVICES
##### Subpart K - Application and Selection Procedures for Reserved Noncommercial Educational Channels, and for Certain Applications for Noncommercial Educational Stations on Non-Reserved Channels
###### ยง 73.7003 Point system selection procedures.
####### Settlements.

(d)At any time during this process, the applicants may advise the Commission that they are negotiating or have reached settlement, and the Commission will withhold further comparative processing for a reasonable period upon such notification. Settlement may include an agreement to share time on the channel voluntarily or other arrangement in compliance with Commission rules. Parties to a settlement shall comply with ยง 73.3525, limiting any monetary payment to the applicant's reasonable and prudent expenses.

(e) For applications filed after April 21, 2000, an applicant's maximum qualifications are established at the time of application and will be reduced for any post-application changes that negatively affect any evaluation criterion.

(f) For applications filed on or before April 21, 2000, an applicant's maximum qualifications are established as of the relevant date listed in paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. After the relevant date for determining an applicant's maximum points, points will be reduced for any changes that negatively affect any evaluation criterion. Applicants will establish their qualifications according to the following:

(1) If the applicant is in a group for which a "B" cut-off notice issued prior to April 21, 2000 its maximum non-technical qualifications are established as of the date by which applicants must supplement their applications to supply point information, and its maximum technical qualifications are established as of the date of the "B" cut-off notice;

(2) If the applicant is in a group for which an "A" cut-off notice issued prior to April 21, 2000 but for which no "B" cut-off notice issued, its maximum non-technical qualifications are established as of the date by which applicants must supplement their applications to supply point information, and its maximum technical qualifications are established as of April 21, 2000;

(3) If the applicant was neither placed on an "A" cut-off list prior to April 21, 2000 nor filed in response to such an "A" cut-off list, it is subject to competition from applications filed within the first filing window, and its maximum technical and non-technical qualifications will be determined as of the close of the first filing window.
