
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart - General; Rules Applicable to All Services in Part 74
###### § 74.5 Cross reference to rules in other parts.

Certain rules applicable to Auxiliary, Special Broadcast and other Program Distribution services, some of which are also applicable to other services, are set forth in the following parts of the FCC Rules and Regulations:

(a) Part 1, "Practice and procedure".

(1) Subpart A, "General Rules of Practice and Procedure". (§§ 1.1 to 1.117).

(2) Subpart B, "Hearing Proceedings". (§§ 1.201 to 1.364).

(3) Subpart C, "Rulemaking Proceedings". (§§ 1.399 to 1.430).

(4) Subpart F, "Wireless Telecommunications Services Applications and Proceedings". (§§ 1.901 to 1.981).

(5) Subpart G, "Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment". (§§ 1.1101 to 1.1120).

(6) Subpart H, "Ex Parte Presentations". (§§ 1.1200 to 1.1216).

(7) Subpart I, "Procedures Implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969". (§§ 1.1301 to 1.1319).

(8) Subpart T, "Foreign Ownership of Broadcast, Common Carrier, Aeronautical En Route, and Aeronautical Fixed Radio Station Licensees". (§§ 1.5000 to 1.5004).

(9) Part 1, Subpart W of the chapter, "FCC Registration Number". (§§ 1.8001-1.8005).

(b) Part 2, "Frequency Allocations and Radio Treaty Matters, General Rules and Regulations", including subparts A, "Terminology"; B, "Allocation, Assignments and Use of Radio Frequencies"; C, "Emissions"; D, "Call Signs and Other Forms of Identifying Radio Transmissions"; and J, "Equipment Authorization Proceedings".

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Part 17, "Construction, Marking and Lighting of Antenna Structures".

(e) Part 73, "Radio Broadcast Services".

(f) Part 101, "Fixed Microwave Services".
