
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart - General; Rules Applicable to All Services in Part 74
###### ยง 74.24 Short-term operation.
####### i.e.,prcz@naic.edu.

(j)(1) This paragraph applies only to operations which will transmit on frequencies under 15 GHz. Prior to commencing short-term operation of a remote pickup broadcast station, a remote pickup automatic relay station, an aural broadcast STL station, an aural broadcast intercity relay station, a TV STL station, a TV intercity relay station, a TV translator relay station, a TV pickup station, or a TV microwave booster station within the 4-mile (6.4 kilometer) radius Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Protection Zone (centered on NAD-83 Geographical Coordinates North Latitude 18&#xB0;20&#x2032;38.28&#x2033;, West Longitude 66&#xB0;45&#x2032;09.42&#x2033;), an applicant must notify the Arecibo Observatory, located near Arecibo, Puerto Rico. Operations within the Puerto Rico Coordination Zone (, on the islands of Puerto Rico, Desecheo, Mona, Vieques, or Culebra), but outside the Protection Zone, whether short term or long term, shall provide notification to the Arecibo Observatory prior to commencing operation. Notification should be directed to the following: Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory, HC3 Box 53995, Arecibo, Puerto Rico 00612, Tel. (809) 878-2612, Fax (809) 878-1861, E-mail

(2) Notification of short-term operations may be provided by telephone, fax, or electronic mail. The notification for long-term operations shall be written or electronic, and shall set forth the technical parameters of the proposed station, including the geographical coordinates of the antenna (NAD-83 datum), antenna height above ground, ground elevation at the antenna, antenna directivity and gain, proposed frequency and FCC Rule Part, type of emission, effective radiated power, and whether the proposed use is itinerant. Applicants may wish to consult interference guidelines, which will be provided by Cornell University. In addition, the applicant shall indicate in its application to the Commission the date notification was made to the Observatory. Generally, submission of the information in the technical portion of the FCC license application is adequate notification. After receipt of such applications in non-emergency situations, the Commission will allow the Arecibo Observatory a period of 20 days for comments or objections in response to the notification indicated. The applicant will be required to make reasonable efforts in order to resolve or mitigate any potential interference problem with the Arecibo Observatory and to file either an amendment to the application or a modification application, as appropriate. If the Commission determines that an applicant has satisfied its responsibility to make reasonable efforts to protect the Observatory from interference, its application may be granted. In emergency situations in which prior notification or approval is not practicable, notification or approval must be accomplished as soon as possible after operations begin.
