
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart - General; Rules Applicable to All Services in Part 74
###### ยง 74.25 Temporary conditional operating authority.
####### Conditions applicable to aural and television broadcast auxiliary stations.

(c)(1) The applicable frequency coordination procedures have been successfully completed and the filed application is consistent with that coordination.

(2) The station site does not lie within an area requiring international coordination.

(3) If operated on frequencies in the 17.8-19.7 GHz band for any services or on frequencies in the 17.7-17.8 GHz band for MVPD operations, the station site does not lie within any of the areas identified in ยง 1.924 of this chapter.

(d) Operation under this section shall be suspended immediately upon notification from the Commission or by the Regional Director of a Commission field facility, and shall not be resumed until specific authority is given by the Commission or Regional Director. When authorized by the Regional Director, short test operations may be made.

(e) Conditional authority ceases immediately if the application(s) is returned by the Commission because it is not acceptable for filing.

(f) Conditional authorization does not prejudice any action the Commission may take on the subject application(s). Conditional authority is accepted with the express understanding that such authority may be modified or cancelled by the Commission at any time without hearing if, in the Commission's discretion, the need for such action arises. An applicant operating pursuant to this conditional authority assumes all risks associated with such operation, the termination or modification of the conditional authority, or the subsequent dismissal or denial of its application(s).
