
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Television Broadcast Auxiliary Stations
###### § 74.602 Frequency assignment.
####### i.e.,

(f) TV auxiliary stations licensed to low power TV stations and translator relay stations will be assigned on a secondary basis,subject to the condition that no harmful interference is caused to other TV auxiliary stations assigned to TV broadcast stations, or to cable television relay service stations (CARS) operating between 12,700 and 13,200 MHz. Auxiliary stations licensed to low power TV stations and translator relay stations must accept any interference caused by stations having primary use of TV auxiliary frequencies.

(g) The following frequencies are available for assignment to television STL, television relay stations and television translator relay stations. Stations operating on frequencies in the sub-bands 18.3-18.58 GHz and 19.26-19.3 GHz that were licensed or had applications pending before the Commission as of September 18, 1998 may continue those operations on a shared co-primary basis with other services under parts 21, 25, 78, and 101 of this chapter. Such stations, however, are subject to relocation by licensees in the fixed-satellite service. Such relocation is subject to the provisions of §§ 101.85 through 101.97 of this chapter. No new applications for new licenses will be accepted in the 19.26-19.3 GHz band after June 8, 2000, and no new applications for new licenses will be accepted in the 18.3-18.58 GHz band after November 19, 2002. The provisions of § 74.604 do not apply to the use of these frequencies. Licensees may use either a two-way link or one or both frequencies of a frequency pair for a one-way link and shall coordinate proposed operations pursuant to procedures required in § 101.103(d) of this chapter.

(1) 2 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channel:

(2) 6 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(3) 10 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(4) 20 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(5) 40 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(6) 80 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels:

(h) TV STL, TV relay stations, and TV translator relay stations may be authorized to operate fixed point-to-point service on the UHF TV channels 14-69 on a secondary basis and subject to the provisions of subpart G of this part:

(1) Applications for authorization in accordance with this paragraph must comply with the following technical limits or be accompanied by an engineering analysis demonstrating why these limits must be exceeded:

(i) Maximum EIRP is limited to 35 dBW;

(ii) Transmitting antenna beamwidth is limited to 25 degrees (measured at the 3 dB points); and

(iii) Vertical polarization is used.

(2) These stations must not interfere with and must accept interference from current and future full-power UHF-TV stations, LPTV stations, and translator stations. They will also be secondary to land mobile stations in areas where land mobile sharing is currently permitted.

(3) TV STL and TV relay stations licensed for operation on UHF TV channels 52-69 based on applications filed before April 16, 2003, may continue to operate under the terms of their current authorizations until the end of transition to digital television in their market (DTV Transition), as set forth in §§ 73.622 through 73.625 of this chapter. Applications for TV STL and TV relay stations operating on UHF TV channels 52-69 will not be accepted for filing on or after April 16, 2003.

(4) TV translator relay stations licensed for operation on UHF TV channels 52-59 based on applications filed before the end of DTV transition may continue to operate under the terms of their current authorizations indefinitely. TV translator relay stations licensed for operation on UHF TV channels 60-69 based on applications filed before the end of DTV transition may continue to operate under the terms of their current authorizations until the end of DTV Transition. Applications for TV translator relay stations operating on UHF TV channels 52-69 will not be accepted for filing on or after the end of DTV Transition.

(5)(i) The licensee of a TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station that operates on frequencies in the 600 MHz band assigned to wireless licensees under part 27 of this chapter must cease operations on those frequencies no later than the end of the post-auction transition period as defined in § 27.4 of this chapter. The licensee of a TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station may be required to cease operations on a date earlier than the end of the post-auction transition period if it receives a notification pursuant to paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) A wireless licensee assigned to frequencies in the 600 MHz band under part 27 of this chapter must notify the licensee of a TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station of its intent to commence operations, as defined in § 27.4 of this chapter, and the likelihood of harmful interference from the TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station to those operations within the wireless licensee's licensed geographic service area.

(A) The wireless licensee must:
