
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart F - Television Broadcast Auxiliary Stations
###### ยง 74.602 Frequency assignment.
####### 2

() Send such notification not less than 30 days in advance of the approximate date of commencement of such operations.

(B) The licensee of the TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station must cease the subject operation within 30 days of receiving the notification pursuant to this section.

(iii) By the end of the post-auction transition period, all TV STL, TV relay station and TV translator relay station licensees must modify or cancel their authorizations and vacate the 600 MHz band. Applications for TV STL, TV relay and TV translator relay stations in the 600 MHz band will not be accepted for filing on or after the end date for the post-auction transition period.

(6) The licensee of a TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station that operates on the UHF spectrum that is reserved for guard band channels as a result of the broadcast television incentive auction conducted under section 6403 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-96) must cease operations on those frequencies no later than the end of the post-auction transition period as defined in ยง 27.4 of this chapter. The licensee of a TV STL, TV relay station, or TV translator relay station may be required to cease operations on a date earlier than the end of the post-auction transition period if it receives a notification pursuant to paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section.
