
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Low Power TV and TV Translator Stations
###### ยง 74.702 Channel assignments.

(a) An applicant for a new low power TV or TV translator station or for changes in the facilities of an authorized station shall endeavor to select a channel on which its operation is not likely to cause interference. The applications must be specific with regard to the channel requested. Only one channel will be assigned to each station.

(1) Any one of the 12 standard VHF Channels (2 to 13 inclusive) may be assigned to a low power TV or TV translator station.

(2) Any one of the UHF Channels from 14 to 36, inclusive, may be assigned to a low power TV or TV translator station. In accordance with ยง 73.603(c) of this chapter, Channel 37 will not be assigned to such stations.

(b) Changes in the Table of Allotments (ยง 73.622(j) of this chapter), authorizations to construct new DTV stations or to authorizations to change facilities of existing such stations, may be made without regard to existing or proposed low power TV or TV translator stations. Where such a change results in a low power TV or TV translator station causing actual interference to reception of the DTV station, the licensee or permittee of the low power TV or TV translator station shall eliminate the interference or file an application for a change in channel assignment pursuant to ยง 73.3572 of this chapter.

(c) [Reserved]
