
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Low Power TV and TV Translator Stations
###### ยง 74.703 Interference.
####### https://www.fcc.gov/oet/info/documents/bulletins/#69.

(a) An application for a new low power TV or TV translator station or for a change in the facilities of such an authorized station will not be granted when it is apparent that interference will be caused. Except where there is a written agreement between the affected parties to accept interference, or where it can be shown that interference will not occur due to terrain shielding and/or Longley-Rice terrain dependent propagation methods, the licensee of a new low power TV or TV translator station shall protect existing low power TV and TV translator stations from interference within the protected contour defined in ยง 74.792 and shall protect existing Class A TV stations within the protected contours defined in ยง 73.6010 of this chapter. Such written agreement shall accompany the application. Copies of OET Bulletin No. 69 are available for inspection through the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center. This document is also available on the FCC homepage at

(b) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee of a low power TV or TV translator station to correct at its expense any condition of interference to the direct reception of the signal of any full-power TV broadcast station operating on the same channel as that used by the low power TV or TV translator station or an adjacent channel which occurs as a result of the operation of the low power TV or TV translator station. Interference will be considered to occur whenever reception of a regularly used signal is impaired by the signals radiated by the low power TV or TV translator station, regardless of the quality of the reception or the strength of the signal so used. If the interference cannot be promptly eliminated by the application of suitable techniques, operation of the offending low power TV or TV translator station shall be suspended and shall not be resumed until the interference has been eliminated. If the complainant refuses to permit the low power TV or TV translator station to apply remedial techniques that demonstrably will eliminate the interference without impairment of the original reception, the licensee of the low power TV or TV translator station is absolved of further responsibility.

(c) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee of a low power TV or TV translator station to correct any condition of interference which results from the radiation of radio frequency energy outside its assigned channel. Upon notice by the FCC to the station licensee or operator that such interference is caused by spurious emissions of the station, operation of the station shall be immediately suspended and not resumed until the interference has been eliminated. However, short test transmissions may be made during the period of suspended operation to check the efficacy of remedial measures.

(d) When a low-power TV or TV translator station causes interference to a CATV system by radiations within its assigned channel at the cable headend or on the output channel of any system converter located at a receiver, the earlier user, whether cable system or low-power TV or TV translator station, will be given priority on the channel, and the later user will be responsible for correction of the interference. When a low-power TV or TV translator station causes interference to a BRS or EBS system by radiations within its assigned channel on the output channel of any system converter located at a receiver, the earlier user, whether BRS system or low-power TV or TV translator station, will be given priority on the channel, and the later user will be responsible for correction of the interference.

(e) Low power TV and TV translator stations are being authorized on a secondary basis to existing land mobile uses and must correct whatever interference they cause to land mobile stations or cease operation.

(f)-(g) [Reserved]

(h) In each instance where suspension of operation is required, the licensee shall submit a full report to the FCC in Washington, DC, after operation is resumed, containing details of the nature of the interference, the source of the interfering signals, and the remedial steps taken to eliminate the interference.

(i) [Reserved]
