
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Low Power TV and TV Translator Stations
###### ยง 74.787 Licensing.
####### de minimis

(v) "Pre-auction digital service area" is defined as the geographic area within the full power station's noise-limited contour (as set forth in Public Notice, DA 15-1296, released November 12, 2015). The service area of the digital-to-digital replacement translator shall be limited to only the demonstrated loss area within the full power station's pre-auction digital service area, provided that an applicant for a digital-to-digital replacement television translator may propose aexpansion of its full power pre-auction digital service area upon demonstrating that the expansion is necessary to replace a loss in its pre-auction digital service area.

(vi) The license for the analog-to-digital and digital-to-digital replacement television translator will be associated with the full power station's main license, will be assigned the same call sign, may not be separately assigned or transferred, and will be renewed with the full power station's main license.

(vii) Analog-to-digital and digital-to-digital replacement television translators may operate only on those television channels designated for broadcast television in ยง 74.702.

(viii) The following sections are applicable to analog-to-digital and digital-to-digital replacement television translator stations:

(A) Section 74.703-Interference.

(B) Section 74.709-Land mobile station protection.

(C) Section 74.734-Attended and unattended operation.

(D) Section 74.735-Power limitations.

(E) Section 74.751-Modification of transmission systems.

(F) Section 74.763-Time of operation.

(G) Section 74.769-Familiarity with FCC rules.

(H) Section 74.780-Broadcast regulations applicable to translators and low power stations.

(I) Section 74.781-Station records.

(J) Section 74.784-Rebroadcasts.
