
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Low Power Auxiliary Stations
###### ยง 74.851 Certification of equipment; prohibition on manufacture, import, sale, lease, offer for sale or lease, or shipment of devices that operate in the 700 MHz Band or the 600 MHz Band; labeling for 700 MHz or 600 MHz band equipment destined for non-U.S. markets; disclosures.
####### Provided, however,

(d) Low power auxiliary station equipment authorized to be used pursuant to an application accepted for filing prior to December 1, 1977 may continue to be used by the licensee or its successors or assignees:If operation of such equipment causes harmful interference due to its failure to comply with the technical standards set forth in this subpart, the Commission may, at its discretion, require the licensee to take such corrective action as is necessary to eliminate the interference.

(e) Each instrument of authority which permits operation of a low power auxiliary station using equipment which has not been certificated will specify the particular transmitting equipment which the licensee is authorized to use.

(f) All transmitters marketed for use under this subpart shall be certificated by the Federal Communications Commission for this purpose. (Refer to subpart I of part 2 of the Commission's rules and regulations.)

(g) No person shall manufacture, import, sell, lease, offer for sale or lease, or ship low power auxiliary stations that are capable of operating in the 700 MHz band (698-806 MHz). This prohibition does not apply to devices manufactured solely for export.

(h) Any person who manufactures, sells, leases, or offers for sale or lease low power auxiliary stations, including wireless microphones, that are destined for non-U.S. markets and that are capable of operating in the 700 MHz band shall include labeling and make clear in all sales, marketing, and packaging materials, including online materials, relating to such devices that the devices cannot be operated in the U.S.

(i) As of January 13, 2018, applications for certification shall no longer be accepted for low power auxiliary stations or wireless video assist devices that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz service band or the 600 MHz guard band, or for low power auxiliary stations that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz duplex gap unless the operations are limited to the 653-657 MHz segment.

(j) As of October 13, 2018, no person shall manufacture, import, sell, lease, offer for sale or lease, or ship low power auxiliary stations or wireless video assist devices that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz service band or the 600 MHz guard bands, or low power auxiliary stations that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz duplex gap unless the operations are limited to the 653-657 MHz segment. This prohibition does not apply to devices manufactured solely for export.

(k) As of October 13, 2018, any person who manufacturers, sells, leases, or offer for sale or lease low power auxiliary stations or wireless video assist devices that are destined for non-U.S. markets and that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz service band or the 600 MHz guard bands, or low power auxiliary stations that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz duplex gap unless such operations are limited to the 653-657 MHz segment, shall include labeling and make clear in all sales, marketing, and packaging materials, including online materials, relating to such devices that the devices cannot be operated in the United States.

(l) Disclosure requirements for low power auxiliary stations and wireless video assist devices capable of operating in the 600 MHz service band. Any person who manufactures, sells, leases, or offers for sale or lease low power auxiliary stations or wireless video devices that are capable of operating in the 600 MHz service band on or after July 13, 2017, is subject to the following disclosure requirements:

(1) Such persons must display the consumer disclosure text, as specified by the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau, at the point of sale or lease of each such low power auxiliary station or wireless video assist device. The text must be displayed in a clear, conspicuous, and readily legible manner. One way to fulfill the requirement in this section is to display the consumer disclosure text in a prominent manner on the product box by using a label (either printed onto the box or otherwise affixed to the box), a sticker, or other means. Another way to fulfill this requirement is to display the text immediately adjacent to each low power auxiliary station or wireless video assist device offered for sale or lease and clearly associated with the model to which it pertains.

(2) If such persons offer such low power auxiliary stations or wireless video assist device via direct mail, catalog, or electronic means, they shall prominently display the consumer disclosure text in close proximity to the images and descriptions of each such low power auxiliary station or wireless video assist device. The text should be in a size large enough to be clear, conspicuous, and readily legible, consistent with the dimensions of the advertisement or description.

(3) If such persons have Web sites pertaining to these low power auxiliary stations or wireless video assist devices, the consumer disclosure text must be displayed there in a clear, conspicuous, and readily legible manner (even in the event such persons do not sell low power auxiliary stations or wireless video assist devices directly to the public).

(4) The consumer disclosure text described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section is set forth as Figure 1 to this paragraph.
