
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Low Power Auxiliary Stations
###### ยง 74.870 Wireless video assist devices.

Television broadcast auxiliary licensees and motion picture and television producers, as defined in ยง 74.801 may operate wireless video assist devices on a non-interference basis on VHF and UHF television channels to assist with production activities.

(a) The use of wireless video assist devices must comply with all provisions of this subpart, except as indicated in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section.

(b) Wireless video assist devices may only be used for scheduled productions. They may not be used to produce live events and may not be used for electronic news gathering purposes.

(c) Wireless video assist devices may operate with a bandwidth not to exceed 6 MHz on frequencies in the bands 180-210 MHz (TV channels 8-12) and 470-698 MHz (TV channels 14-51) subject to the following restrictions:

(1) The bandwidth may only occupy a single TV channel.

(2) Operation is prohibited within the 608-614 MHz (TV channel 37) band.

(3) Operation is prohibited within 129 km of a television broadcasting station, including Class A television stations, low power television stations and translator stations.

(4) For the area and frequency combinations listed in the table below, operation is prohibited within the distances indicated from the listed geographic coordinates.

(d) Wireless video assist devices are limited to a maximum of 250 milliwatts ERP and must limit power to that necessary to reliably receive a signal at a distance of 300 meters. Wireless video assist devices must comply with the emission limitations of ยง 74.637.

(e) The antenna of a wireless video assist device must be attached to the transmitter either permanently, or by means of a unique connector designed to allow replacement of authorized antennas but prevent the use of unauthorized antennas. When transmitting, the antenna must not be more that 10 meters above ground level.

(f)(1) A license for a wireless video assist device will authorize the license holder to use all frequencies available for wireless video assist devices, subject to the limitations specified in this section.

(2) Licensees may operate as many wireless video assist devices as necessary, subject to the notification procedures of this section.
