
# Title 47 - Telecommunication
## Chapter I - Federal Communications Commission
### Subchapter C - Broadcast Radio Services
#### PART 74 - EXPERIMENTAL RADIO, AUXILIARY, SPECIAL BROADCAST AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTIONAL SERVICES
##### Subpart H - Low Power Auxiliary Stations
###### ยง 74.870 Wireless video assist devices.
####### Notification procedure.

(g)Prior to the commencement of transmitting, licensees must notify the local broadcasting coordinator of their intent to transmit. If there is no local coordinator in the intended area of operation, licensees must notify all adjacent channel TV stations within 161 km (100 mi) of the proposed operating area.

(1) Notification must be made at least 10 working days prior to the date of intended transmission.

(2) Notifications must include:

(i) Frequency or frequencies.

(ii) Location.

(iii) Antenna height.

(iv) Emission type(s).

(v) Effective radiated power.

(vi) Intended dates of operation.

(vii) Licensee contact information.

(3)(i) Failure of a local coordinator to respond to a notification request prior to the intended dates of operation indicated on the request will be considered as having the approval of the coordinator. In this case, licensees must in addition notify all co-channel and adjacent channel TV stations within 161 km (100 mi) of the proposed operating area. This notification is for information purposes only and will not enable TV stations to prevent a WAVD from operating, but is intended to help identify the source of interference if any is experienced after a WAVD begins operation.

(ii) If there is no local coordinator in the intended area of operation, failure of any adjacent channel TV station to respond to a notification request prior to the intended dates of operation indicated on the request will be considered as having the approval of the TV station.

(4) Licensees must operate in a manner consistent with the response of the local coordinator, or, if there is no local coordinator in the intended area of operation, the responses of the adjacent channel TV stations. Disagreements may be appealed to the Commission. However, in those instances, the licensee will bear the burden of proof and proceeding to overturn the recommendation of the local coordinator or the co-channel or adjacent channel TV station.

(h) Licenses for wireless video assist devices may not be transferred or assigned.
