
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 9 - MINERALS MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart B - Non-Federal Oil and Gas Rights
##### Accessing Oil and Gas Rights From a Surface Location Outside the System Unit Boundary
###### ยง 9.71 What information must I submit to the NPS?

You must provide the information required by this section to the Superintendent of the System unit. You must provide all of the following.

(a) The names and contact information of:

(1) The operator;

(2) The owner; and

(3) The individuals responsible for overall management, field supervision, and emergency response of the proposed operations.

(b) Documentation demonstrating that you hold a right, and the extent of such right, to operate within the System unit.

(c) Maps and plats to scale showing the boundaries of each of the oil or gas rights that are relevant to your proposed operations within the System unit boundary.

(d) Maps and plats to scale showing all proposed surface uses (well site, access route, flowlines, production facilities) that occur outside the System unit.

(e) Information regarding downhole operations and conditions, including:

(1) Description, including depths, thicknesses, and properties of geologic horizons between the target zone and the base of the deepest aquifer;

(2) Drilling plan, including directional-drilling program, horizontal distance along the wellbore's path from well's surface location to the System unit boundary, depth at which wellbore crosses the boundary, and timeline for operations;

(3) Casing, cementing, and mud programs;

(4) Stimulation programs; and

(5) Well plugging and abandonment program.

(f) If you propose hydraulic fracturing, then you must also provide the information required by ยง 9.89.
