
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 9 - MINERALS MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart B - Non-Federal Oil and Gas Rights
##### Operating Standards
###### ยง 9.111 What general facility design and management standards must I meet?

(a) You must not conduct operations within 500 feet of surface water, including an intermittent or ephemeral watercourse, or wetland; within 500 feet of the mean high tide line; or within 500 feet of any structure or facility used by the NPS for interpretation, public recreation, or administration. The Superintendent may increase or decrease this distance consistent with the need to protect federally owned or administered lands, water, or resources of System units, visitor uses or experiences, or visitor or employee health and safety while ensuring that you have reasonable access to your non-Federal oil and gas rights. Measurements for purposes are by horizontal distance.

(b) You must design, construct, operate, and maintain access to your operational site to cause the minimum amount of surface disturbance needed to safely conduct operations and to avoid areas the NPS has indicated to you as sensitive resources.

(c) You must install and maintain secondary containment materials and structures for all equipment and facilities using or storing contaminating substances. The containment system must be sufficiently impervious to prevent discharge and must have sufficient storage capacity to contain, at a minimum, the largest potential spill incident.

(d) You must keep temporarily stored waste in the smallest feasible area, and confine in a manner appropriate to prevent escape as a result of percolation, rain, high water, or other causes. You must regularly remove waste from the System unit and dispose of it in a lawful manner. Nothing in this subpart affects the application of the regulations found at 36 CFR part 6.

(e) You must use engines that adhere to applicable Federal and State emission standards.

(f) You must construct, maintain, and use roads to minimize fugitive dust.

(g) You must use equipment and practices that minimize releases of air pollutants and hydrocarbons, and flaring of gas.

(h) You must conduct operation in a manner that does not create an unsafe environment for fish and wildlife by avoiding or minimizing exposure to physical and chemical hazards.

(i) You must conduct operations in a manner that avoids or minimizes impacts to sensitive wildlife, including timing and location of operations.

(j) You must control the invasion of exotic plant and animal species in your area of operations from the beginning through final reclamation.
