
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 9 - MINERALS MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart C - Alaska Mineral Resource Assessment Program
##### ยง 9.308 Permit modification, suspension, and cancellation.

(a) A proposal to modify, supplement, or otherwise amend an approved permit shall be made by an AMRAP agency by written request to the Regional Director. The Regional Director shall review and promptly act on the proposed modification pursuant to the standards set forth in ยง 9.306. An AMRAP agency may not undertake any of the activities proposed in the modification until the Regional Director approves the modification and the Superintendent amends the approved permit.

(b) The Superintendent may modify, suspend or cancel an AMRAP agency's permit by notifying the agency in writing, or orally in an emergency situation, when the Superintendent determines that:

(1) Changes to the permit are necessary to address conditions not previously anticipated; or

(2) There is imminent threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or danger to public health and safety, or the natural and cultural resources and values of the unit; or

(3) The AMRAP agency or its contractors fails to comply with the provisions of ANILCA or of any other applicable law or regulation, the provisions and conditions of the approved permit and any modification thereto, or any written or field orders issued by the Superintendent.

(c) Modification, suspension, or cancellation of an approved permit pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be effective immediately upon receipt of oral or written notice from the Regional Director or the Superintendent. Notices issued orally shall be followed by written notice sent by certified mail within three (3) working days confirming and explaining the action. Suspensions shall remain in effect until the basis for the suspension has been corrected to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. Cancellation notices shall state the reason for cancellation and shall be sent by the Superintendent to the AMRAP agency at least fourteen (14) days in advance of the date the cancellation will become effective.

(d) Suspension or cancellation of a permit to conduct AMRAP activities shall not relieve the AMRAP agency or its contractors of the obligation to restore any location in accordance with the requirements of this subpart and to comply with all other obligations specified in this subpart and in the permit.
