
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart B - General Provisions
##### ยง 13.35 Preservation of natural features.

(a) This section applies to all park areas in Alaska except Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park, Sitka National Historical Park, the former Mt. McKinley National Park, and the former Katmai National Monument.

(b) Gathering or collecting natural products is prohibited except as allowed by this section, ยง 2.1 of this chapter, or part 13, subparts F through V. For purposes of this paragraph, "natural products" includes living or dead fish and wildlife or parts or products thereof, plants or parts or products thereof, live or dead wood, fungi, seashells, rocks, and minerals.

(c) Gathering or collecting, by hand and for personal use only, of the following renewable resources is permitted-

(1) Natural plant food items, including fruits, berries and mushrooms, but not including threatened or endangered species;

(2) Driftwood and uninhabited seashells;

(3) Such plant materials and minerals as are essential to the conduct of traditional ceremonies by Native Americans; and

(4) Dead wood on the ground for use as fuel for campfires within the park area.

(d) The Superintendent may authorize, with or without conditions, the collection of dead standing wood in all or a portion of a park area. Collecting dead or downed wood in violation of terms and conditions is prohibited.

(e) Surface collection, by hand (including hand-held gold pans) and for personal recreational use only, of rocks and minerals is permitted, with the following exceptions:

(1) Collection of silver, platinum, gemstones and fossils is prohibited; and

(2) Collection methods that may result in disturbance of the ground surface, such as the use of shovels, pickaxes, sluice boxes, and dredges, are prohibited.

(f) The Superintendent may limit the size and quantity of the natural products that may be gathered or possessed.

(1) Under conditions where it is found that significant adverse impact on park resources, wildlife populations, subsistence uses, or visitor enjoyment of resources will result, the Superintendent will prohibit the gathering or otherwise restrict the collecting of natural products.

(2) The Superintendent will notify the public of portions of a park area in which closures or restrictions apply by:

(i) Publishing a notice in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the State and providing a map available for public inspection in the office of the Superintendent; or

(ii) Posting appropriate signs.
