
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart B - General Provisions
##### ยง 13.45 Unattended or abandoned property.
###### Personal property.

(b)(1) Leaving personal property longer than 4 months is prohibited. The Superintendent may authorize property to be left in place for more than 4 months.

(2) Identification information is required for all personal property left in park areas. Identification information consists of the owner's name, home address, telephone number, date that the property was left, and the type of fuel if the property contains fuel. This information must be-

(i) Labeled on the property; or

(ii) Provided to the Superintendent.

(3) All property must be stored in such a manner that wildlife is unable to access the contents. Storing property in a manner that wildlife can access contents is prohibited.

(4) Leaving fuel in more than one location in a park area or leaving more than 30 gallons of fuel is prohibited unless authorized by the Superintendent.

(5) Storing fuel within 100 feet of a water source, high water mark of a body of water, or mean high tide is prohibited unless stored in a spill proof overpack container or authorized by the Superintendent. Fuel must be contained in an undamaged and closed fuel container designed for fuel storage. Fueling from containers must occur in such a manner that any spillage would be prevented from coming into contact with water, soil, or vegetation. Failure to properly contain or prevent spillage is prohibited.

(6) Leaving property unattended for longer than 24 hours on facilities is prohibited unless authorized by the Superintendent.

(7) Property left in violation of this section is prohibited and subject to impoundment and, if abandoned, disposal or forfeiture.

(c) The Superintendent may designate areas where personal property may not be left unattended for any time period, establish limits on the amount and type of personal property that may be left unattended, prescribe the manner in which personal property may be left unattended, or establish limits on the length of time personal property may be left unattended. Such designations and restrictions shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the State, posted at community post offices within the vicinity affected, made available for broadcast on local radio stations in a manner reasonably calculated to inform residents in the affected community, and designated on a map which shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Superintendent, or designated by the posting of appropriate signs, or both.

(d) In the event unattended property interferes with the safe and orderly management of a park area or is causing damage to the resources of the area, it may be impounded by the Superintendent at any time.
