
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart B - General Provisions
##### ยง 13.55 Permits.
###### Denial and appeal procedures.

(b)(1) An applicant whose application for a permit, required pursuant to this part, has been denied by the Superintendent has the right to have the application reconsidered by the Regional Director by contacting him/her within 180 days of the issuance of the denial. For purposes of reconsideration, the permit applicant shall present the following information:

(i) Any statement or documentation, in addition to that included in the initial application, which demonstrates that the applicant satisfies the criteria set forth in the section under which the permit application is made.

(ii) The basis for the permit applicant's disagreement with the Superintendent's findings and conclusions; and

(iii) Whether or not the permit applicant requests an informal hearing before the Regional Director.

(2) The Regional Director shall provide a hearing if requested by the applicant. After consideration of the written materials and oral hearing, if any, and within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director shall affirm, reverse, or modify the denial of the Superintendent and shall set forth in writing the basis for the decision. A copy of the decision shall be forwarded promptly to the applicant and shall constitute final agency action.
