
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart F - Subsistence
##### ยง 13.482 Subsistence collection and use of animal parts.

(a) Local rural residents may collect animal parts (excluding parts of threatened or endangered species) for subsistence uses in park areas where subsistence uses are authorized, provided that:

(1) The resident's primary permanent residence is in an area or community with a federally recognized customary and traditional use determination for the species in the game management unit where the collecting occurs (50 CFR part 100); and

(2) The resident has written authorization from the superintendent issued under ยง 1.6 of this chapter that identifies specific areas where this activity is allowed.

(3)(i) If you are a NPS-qualified subsistence user (recipient), you may designate another NPS-qualified subsistence user to collect animal parts on your behalf in accordance with this section for the following purposes:

(A) Making handicrafts for personal use, customary trade, or barter; or

(B) Making handicrafts for qualified educational or cultural programs.

(ii) The designated collector must obtain a permit from the superintendent. The designated collector may not charge the recipient for his/her services or for the collected items.

(4) The use of paid employees to collect animal parts is prohibited. This prohibition does not apply to qualified educational or cultural programs that collect animal parts to create handicrafts, provided that the resulting handicrafts are not exchanged through barter or customary trade.

(b) The superintendent may establish conditions, limits, and other restrictions on collection activities. Areas open to collections will be identified on a map posted on the park Web site and available at the park visitor center or park headquarters. Violating a condition, limit, or restriction is prohibited.
