
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart N - Special Regulations - Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve
##### Bartlett Cove
###### ยง 13.1122 Bartlett Cove Public Use Dock.

(a) Docking, tying down, or securing aircraft is prohibited except at the designated aircraft float at the Bartlett Cove Public Use Dock. Docking, tying down, or securing aircraft to the Bartlett Cove Public Use Dock for longer than 3 hours in a 24-hour period is prohibited. Pilots must remain with the aircraft or provide notice of their location to a park ranger. Failure to remain with the aircraft or provide notice to a park ranger is prohibited.

(b) Vehicles exceeding 30,000 pounds gross vehicle weight are prohibited on the dock, unless authorized by the Superintendent.

(c) Leaving personal property (other than vessels) unattended on, or attached to, the floats or pier without prior permission from the Superintendent is prohibited.

(d) Processing commercially caught fish on the Public Use Dock is prohibited.

(e) The Superintendent may authorize the buying or selling of fish or fish products on or at the Public Use Dock. Buying or selling of fish or fish products is prohibited on or at the Public Use Dock without written permission from the Superintendent.

(f) Utilizing the fuel dock for activities other than fueling and waste pump-out is prohibited. Other uses may be authorized by the Superintendent to protect park resources or public safety.

(g) Leaving a vessel unattended on the fuel dock for any length of time is prohibited.

(h) Using electrical shore power for vessels is prohibited unless otherwise authorized by the Superintendent.
