
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart N - Special Regulations - Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve
##### Vessel Permits
###### ยง 13.1154 Commercial vessel permits and conditions.

Each commercially operated motor vessel must have a permit to operate in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve in accordance with ยง 5.3 of this chapter.

(a) A cruise ship must have a concession contract to operate in Glacier Bay.

(b) A tour vessel, charter vessel, and passenger ferry must have a commercial authorization to operate in Glacier Bay.

(c) The operator of a cruise ship, tour vessel, charter vessel, and passenger ferry must notify the Bartlett Cove Ranger Station of the vessel's entry into Glacier Bay within 48 hours in advance of entering Glacier Bay or immediately upon entry.

(d) Cruise ships and tour vessels are prohibited from operating in the Beardslee Entrance and at the entrance to Adams Inlet, as defined as waters within the Wilderness boundaries in those respective areas.

(e) Off-boat activity from a cruise ship, tour vessel, or charter vessel is prohibited, unless authorized by the superintendent.

(f) Off-boat activity from a passenger ferry is prohibited, except for passenger access at the Bartlett Cove docks.

(g) A passenger ferry must travel a direct course between the mouth of Glacier Bay and Bartlett Cove, except when the vessel is granted safe harbor by the Superintendent as stated in ยง 13.1156(e).
