
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart N - Special Regulations - Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve
##### Vessel Permits
###### ยง 13.1160 Restrictions on vessel entry.

The superintendent will allow vessel entry in accordance with the following table:

(a) The Director will reduce the vessel quota levels for any or all categories of vessels in this subpart as required to protect the values and purposes of Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve. The director will make these reductions based on the controlling biological opinion issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Fisheries Service under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, applicable authority, and any other relevant information.

(b) The superintendent will annually determine the cruise ship quota. This determination will be based upon applicable authorities, appropriate public comment and available scientific and other information. The number will be subject to the maximum daily vessel quota of two vessels.

(c) From June 1 through August 31, the superintendent will designate one private vessel permit from the daily quota of 25 as a transit permit. This transit permit may be used only to directly exit Glacier Bay from Bartlett Cove and return directly to Bartlett Cove. The superintendent may establish application procedures and operating conditions. Violating operating conditions is prohibited. This paragraph will cease to have effect on November 30, 2011.

(d) Nothing in this section will be construed to prevent the superintendent from taking any action at any time to protect the values and purposes of Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve.
