
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart N - Special Regulations - Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve
##### Vessel Operating Restrictions
###### ยง 13.1180 Closed waters, motor vessels and seaplanes.

(a) May 1 through September 15, operating a motor vessel or a seaplane on the following water is prohibited:

(1) Adams Inlet, east of 135&#xB0;59.2&#x2032; W longitude (an imaginary line running approximately due north and south through the charted (5) obstruction located approximately 2nautical miles east of Pt. George).

(2) Rendu Inlet, north of the wilderness boundary at the mouth of the inlet.

(3) Hugh Miller complex, including Scidmore Bay and Charpentier Inlet, west of the wilderness boundary at the mouth of the Hugh Miller Inlet.

(4) Waters within the Beardslee Island group (except the Beardslee Entrance), that is defined by an imaginary line running due west from shore to the easternmost point of Lester Island, then along the south shore of Lester Island to its western end, then to the southernmost point of Young Island, then north along the west shore and east along the north shore of Young Island to its northernmost point, then at a bearing of 15 true to an imaginary point located one nautical mile due east of the easternmost point of Strawberry Island, then at a bearing of 345 true to the northernmost point of Flapjack Island, then at a bearing of 81 true to the northernmost point of the unnamed island immediately to the east of Flapjack Island, then southeasterly to the northernmost point of the next unnamed island, then southeasterly along the (Beartrack Cove) shore of that island to its easternmost point, then due east to shore.

(b) June 1 through July 15, operating a motor vessel or a seaplane on the waters of Muir Inlet north of 59&#xB0;02.7&#x2032; N latitude (an imaginary line running approximately due west from the point of land on the east shore approximately 1 nautical mile north of the McBride Glacier) is prohibited.

(c) July 16 through August 31, operating a motor vessel or a seaplane on the waters of Wachusett Inlet west of 136&#xB0;12.0&#x2032; W longitude (an imaginary line running approximately due north from the point of land on the south shore of Wachusett Inlet approximately 2nautical miles west of Rowlee Point) is prohibited.
