
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 2 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 2.50 Special events.
##### Provided, however,

(a) Sports events, pageants, regattas, public spectator attractions, entertainments, ceremonies, and similar events are allowed:There is a meaningful association between the park area and the events, and the observance contributes to visitor understanding of the significance of the park area, and a permit therefor has been issued by the superintendent. A permit shall be denied if such activities would:

(1) Cause injury or damage to park resources; or

(2) Be contrary to the purposes for which the natural, historic, development and special use zones were established; or unreasonably impair the atmosphere of peace and tranquility maintained in wilderness, natural, historic, or commemorative zones.

(3) Unreasonably interfere with interpretive, visitor service, or other program activities, or with the administrative activities of the National Park Service; or

(4) Substantially impair the operation of public use facilities or services of National Park Service concessioners or contractors; or

(5) Present a clear and present danger to the public health and safety; or

(6) Result in significant conflict with other existing uses.

(b) An application for such a permit shall set forth the name of the applicant, the date, time, duration, nature and place of the proposed event, an estimate of the number of persons expected to attend, a statement of equipment and facilities to be used, and any other information required by the superintendent. The application shall be submitted so as to reach the superintendent at least 72 hours in advance of the proposed event.

(c) As a condition of permit issuance, the superintendent may require:

(1) The filing of a bond payable to the Director, in an amount adequate to cover costs such as restoration, rehabilitation, and cleanup of the area used, and other costs resulting from the special event. In lieu of a bond, a permittee may elect to deposit cash equal to the amount of the required bond.

(2) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the acquisition of liability insurance in which the United States is named as co-insured in an amount sufficient to protect the United States.

(d) The permit may contain such conditions as are reasonably consistent with protection and use of the park area for the purposes for which it is established. It may also contain reasonable limitations on the equipment used and the time and area within which the event is allowed.

(e) Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.
