
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 13 - NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart V - Special Regulations - Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve
##### ยง 13.1914 Off-road motor vehicle use in the Nabesna District.
###### Must I obtain a permit to operate an off-road vehicle for recreational use?

(c)(1) You must obtain a permit before operating an off-road vehicle for recreational use. Permits may be obtained at the Slana Ranger Station in Slana or the Main Park Visitor Center in Copper Center.

(2) The Superintendent may issue permits for the recreational use of off-road vehicles on any of the following trails in the National Preserve:

(i) Suslota Trail.

(ii) Caribou Creek Trail.

(iii) Trail Creek Trail.

(iv) Lost Creek Trail.

(v) Soda Lake Trail.

(vi) Reeve Field Trail.

(3) Permits may be issued for the recreational use of off-road vehicles only on designated trails that are either frozen or improved. A map showing trails designated for recreational off-road vehicle use, and a current list of frozen and improved trails, are available at Slana Ranger Station, the Main Visitor Center, and on the park's Web site.

(4) You must obtain a permit for each off-road vehicle that you want to use for recreational purposes on designated off-road vehicle trails. The operator of the off-road vehicle must have the permit in his or her possession when the off-road vehicle is in use.

(5) Violating any term or condition of a permit is prohibited.

(6) The recreational use of off-road vehicles without a permit is prohibited.
