
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 14 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### Subpart C - Procedures
##### ยง 14.25 Documents which must accompany application.
###### Maps.

(a)Each application, other than an appropriation for Federal-aid highway purposes under Title 23, United States Code, section 317, must be accompanied by a map prepared on tracing linen, or on tracing paper having a 100 percent rag content, and three or, in the case of electric transmission lines, five print copies thereof, showing the survey of the right-of-way, properly located with respect to the public land surveys so that said right-of-way may be accurately located on the ground by any competent engineer or land surveyor. The map should comply with the following requirements:

(1) The scale should be 2,000 feet to the inch for rights-of-way for such structures as canals, ditches, pipelines and transmission lines and 1,000 feet to the inch for rights-of-way for reservoirs, except where a larger scale is required to represent properly the details of the proposed developments, in which case the scales should be 1,000 feet to the inch and 500 feet to the inch, respectively. For electric transmission lines having a nominal voltage of less than 33 kV. map scales may at option of the applicant be 5,280 feet to the inch.

(2) Courses and distances of the center line of the right-of-way or traverse line of the reservoir should be given; the courses referred to the true meridian either by deflection from a line of known bearing or by independent observation, and the distances in feet and decimals thereof. Station numbers with plus distances at deflection points on the traverse line should be shown.

(3) The initial and terminal points of the survey should be accurately connected by course and distance to the nearest corner of the public-land surveys, unless that corner is more than 6 miles distant, in which case the connection will be made to some prominent natural object or permanent monument, which can be readily recognized and recovered. The station number and plus distance to the point of intersection with a line of the public-land surveys should be ascertained and noted, together with the course and distance along the section line to the nearest existing corner, at a sufficient number of points throughout the township to permit accurate platting of the relative position of the right-of-way to the public-land survey.

(4) If the right-of-way is across or within lands which are not covered by the public-land surveys, the map shall be made in terms of the boundary survey of the land to the extent it would be required above to be made in terms of the public-land surveys.

(5) All subdivisions of the public-land surveys within the limits of the survey should be shown in their entirety, based upon the official subsisting plats, with the subdivisions, section, township, and range clearly marked.

(6) The width of the canal, ditch, or lateral at high-water line should be given and the width of all other rights-of-way shall be given. If the width is not uniform, the location and amount of the change in width must be definitely shown. In the case of a pipeline, the diameter of the line should be given. The total distance of the right-of-way on the Federal lands shall be stated.

(7) Each copy of the map should bear upon its face a statement of the engineer who made the survey and the certificate of the applicant. The statement and certificate referred to are embodied in Forms 1 and 2 (Appendix A) which are made a part hereof and which should be modified so as to be appropriate to the act invoked and the nature of the project.

(8) Whenever it is found that a public land survey monument or reservation boundary monument will be destroyed or rendered inaccessible by reason of the proposed development, at least two permanent marked witness monuments should be established at suitable points, preferably on the surveyed lines. A brief description of the witness monuments and the connecting courses and distances to the original corners should be shown.
