
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 14 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### Subpart C - Procedures
##### ยง 14.26 Payment required; exceptions; default; revision of charges.
###### Provided,

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the charge for use and occupancy of lands under the regulations of this part will be the fair market value of the permit, right-of-way, or easement, as determined by appraisal by the authorized officer. Periodic payments or a lump-sum payment, both payable in advance, will be required at the discretion of such officer: (1) When periodic payments are required, the applicant will be required to make the first payment before the permit, right-of-way, or easement will be issued; (2) upon the voluntary relinquishment of such an instrument before the expiration of its term, any payment made for any unexpired portion of the term will be returned to the payer upon a proper application for repayment to the extent that the amount paid covers a full permit, right-of-way, or easement year or years after the formal relinquishment:That the total rental received and retained by the Government for that permit, right-of-way, or easement, shall not be less than $25. The amount to be so returned will be the difference between the total payments made and the value of the expired portion of the term calculated on the same basis as the original payments.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the charge for use and occupancy of lands under the regulations of this part shall not be less than $25 per five-year period for any permit, right-of-way, or easement issued.

(c) No charge will be made for the use and occupancy of lands under the regulations of this part:

(1) Where the use and occupancy are exclusively for irrigation projects, municipally operated projects, or nonprofit or Rural Electrification Administration projects, or where the use is by a Federal governmental agency.

(2) Where the permit, right-of-way, or easement is granted under the regulations in Subpart D.

(d) If a charge required by this section is not paid when due, and such default shall continue for 30 days after notice, action may be taken to cancel the permit, right-of-way, or easement. After default has occurred, structures, buildings, or other equipment may be removed from the servient lands except upon written permission first obtained from the authorized officer.

(e) At any time not less than five years after either the grant of the permit, right-of-way, or easement or the last revision of charges thereunder, the authorized officer, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing, may review such charges and impose such new charges as may be reasonable and proper commencing with the ensuing charge year.

(f) The provisions of this section shall not have the effect of changing, modifying, or amending the rental rates or charges imposed for existing water power projects under rights-of-way previously approved by this Department.
