
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 14 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### Subpart F - Principles and Procedures, Power Transmission Lines
##### ยง 14.78 Applications.
###### Required showings.

(b)(1) A description of the plant or connecting generating plants which generate the power to be transmitted over such line, such description to be in sufficient detail to show, to the satisfaction of the authorized officer, the character, capacity, and location of such plants.

(2) A description of the transmission line of which the line for which a right-of-way is requested forms a part, giving in reasonable detail the points between which it will extend, its characteristics and purpose. There must also be included a statement as to the voltage for which the line is designed and at which it is to be operated initially, and a statement as to whether it is to serve a single customer, or a number of customers, or is intended to transmit power solely for the applicant's use. If the line is to serve a single customer or is for the applicant's own use, the nature of such use must be given (such as airway beacon, coal mine, and irrigation pumps).

(3) The application and maps shall specify the width of the right-of-way desired. Rights-of-way for power lines will be limited to 50 feet on each side of the centerline unless sufficient justification is furnished for a greater width and it is otherwise authorized by law.

(4) If the line is to have a nominal voltage of 66 kilovolts or more, the application should include a one-line diagram of the proposed line and the immediate interconnecting facilities including power plants and substations, a power flow diagram for proposed line and connecting major lines showing conditions under normal use, and typical structure drawings of proposed line showing construction dimensions and list of materials.

(5) Any application under the Act of March 4, 1911, for a line right-of-way in excess of 100 feet in width or for a structure or facility right-of-way over 10,000 square feet must state the reasons why the larger right-of-way is required. Rights-of-way will not be issued in excess of such sizes in the absence of a satisfactory showing of the need therefor.

(6)(i) A detailed description of the environmental impact of the project shall be included with the application. It shall provide, among other things, information about the impact of the project on airspace, air and water quality, scenic and esthetic features, historical and archeological features, and wildlife, fish, and marine life.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) If all other requirements are met, the application may be approved if it is determined that the beneficial purposes and effects of the project will not be outweighed by an adverse environmental impact. If the authorized officer determines that the application cannot be approved as proposed, he will, whenever possible, suggest alternative routes or methods of construction, or other modifications which if adopted by the applicant would make the application acceptable.
