
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 14 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### Subpart G - Radio and Television Sites
##### ยง 14.91 Procedures.

(a) Any application under the Act of March 4, 1911, for a line right-of-way in excess of 100 feet in width or for a structure or facility right-of-way of over 10,000 square feet must state the reasons why the larger right-of-way is required. Rights-of-way will not be issued in excess of such sizes in the absence of a satisfactory showing of the need therefor.

(b) When an application is made for a right-of-way for a site for a water plant or for a communication structure or facility, the location and extent of ground proposed to be occupied by buildings or other structures necessary to be used in connection therewith must be clearly designated on the map by reference to course and distance from a corner of the public survey. In addition to being shown in connection with the main drawing, the buildings or other structures must be platted on the map in a separate drawing on a scale sufficiently large to show clearly their dimensions and relative positions. When two or more such proposed structures are to be located near each other, it will be sufficient to give the reference to a corner of the public survey for one of them provided all the others are connected therewith by course and distance shown on the map. The application must also state the proposed use of each structure, must show definitely that each one is necessary for a proper use of the right-of-way for the purpose contemplated in the Act of March 4, 1911. If the right-of-way is within reservation lands which are not covered by the public land surveys, the map shall be made in terms of the boundary survey of the reservation to the extent it would be required above to be made in terms of the public land survey.
