
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 18 - LEASING OF PROPERTIES IN PARK AREAS
#### ยง 18.7 How are lease proposals solicited and selected if the Director issues a Request for Bids?

(a) If the amount of the rent is the only criterion for award of a lease, the Director may solicit bids through issuance of a request for bids as described in this section. If historic property is to be leased under the authority of this section, the Director must comply with 36 CFR part 800 (commenting procedures of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation) at an appropriate time during the leasing process.

(b) A request for bids under this section shall be advertised by public notice published at least twice in local and/or national newspapers of general circulation. The notice shall provide at least a thirty (30) day period from the last date of publication for the submission of sealed bids. The notice will provide necessary information to prospective bidders. It may specify a minimum rent and/or require submission of a rent deposit or advance rent payment. Bids will be considered only if timely received at the place designated in the request. Bids must be in the form specified by the Director, or, if no form is specified, a bid must be in writing, signed by the bidder or authorized representative, state the amount of the bid, and refer to the applicable public notice. If the notice requires submission of a rent deposit or advance rent payment, the bids must include the required funds in the form of a certified check, post office money order, bank drafts, or cashier's checks made out to the United States of America. The bid (and payment where applicable) must be enclosed in a sealed envelope upon which the bidder shall write: "Bid on lease of property of the National Park Service" and shall note the date the bids are to be opened.

(c) Bids will be opened publicly by the Director at a time and place specified in the public notice. Bidders or their representatives may attend the bid opening. The bidder submitting a responsive bid offering the highest rent will be selected for award of the lease (subject to a determination of financial capability by the Director). A responsive bid is a bid that meets the material terms and conditions of the request for bids. The Director shall accept no bid in an amount less than the fair market rental value as determined by the Director. If two or more bids are equal, a drawing shall make the lease award by lot limited to the equal responsive bids received.

(d) When a property is to be leased through a request for bids, the bidder that is declared by the Director to be the high bidder shall be bound by his bid and this part to execute the offered lease, unless the bid is rejected. If the declared high bidder fails to enter into the lease for any reason, the Director may choose to enter into the lease with the next highest bidder (if that bidder offered to pay at least the fair market rent value). The Director may reject any and all bids in his discretion and resolicit or cancel a lease solicitation under this part at any time without liability to any person.
