
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 20 - ISLE ROYALE NATIONAL PARK; COMMERCIAL FISHING
#### ยง 20.2 Permits; conditions.

Annual, revocable special use permits authorizing the use of Government-owned structures and facilities in the Park as bases for commercial fishing in the waters contiguous to the Park may be granted by the Director of the National Park Service, or the Regional Director if authorized by the Director, to bona fide commercial fishermen, where such structures and facilities were used for this purpose during the period from April 1, 1937, to December 31, 1939, inclusive, subject to the following conditions.

(a) Permittees will be required to pay an annual fee as set forth in part 6 of this chapter.

(b) Permittees shall personally reside at their Park bases during the fishing season.

(c) Permittees shall secure and possess at all times such commercial fishing license as may be required by the State of Michigan.

(d) Permittees shall comply with all Michigan laws, and related regulations prescribed by the Michigan Department of Conservation, governing commercial fishing in the waters contiguous to the Park.

(e) Permittees shall use the bases covered by the permit for commercial fishing only. No permittee shall furnish boat or guide service to the public unless expressly authorized to do so by the Secretary or the Director.

(f) Permittees shall maintain at their own expense, in accordance with reasonable standards of repair, safety, and sanitation, all Government-owned structures and facilities embraced in the permits.

(g) The size, type and location of nets and gear and the number of men engaged in the operation of the fishing base of the permittee shall be prescribed in the permit. Only nets and gear approved by the Michigan Department of Conservation shall be used.
