
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 25 - NATIONAL MILITARY PARKS; LICENSED GUIDE SERVICE REGULATIONS
#### ยง 25.2 License.

(a) No person shall be permitted to offer his services or to act as a guide unless licensed for that purpose by the superintendent. Any person desiring to become a licensed guide shall make application to the superintendent in writing for authority to take the examination for a license as guide.

(b) Guides shall be of good character, in good physical condition, honest, intelligent, tactful, and of good repute. They must be thoroughly familiar with the history of the events which the park commemorates and with the location of all memorials. It is their duty to escort visitors to the various parts of the park and point out different historical features. The story of the guides shall be limited to the historical outlines approved by the superintendent and shall be free from praise or censure.

(c) Examinations will be held at parks where a licensed guide service is authorized, at times to be designated by the Director of the National Park Service, for the purpose of securing a list of eligibles for such service. The examination will consist of an investigation of the character, reputation, intelligence, and ability of the applicants, and of questions designed to test their knowledge of the history of the battle, or features of historical interest, the markings of the park, the rules and regulations promulgated for the government of the park, and the regulations governing the guide service. Examination questions will be prepared under the direction of the Director of the National Park Service, who will likewise supervise the marking of examination papers and the rating of applicants.

(d) The names of applicants who successfully pass the examination will be placed on a list of eligibles and selected in accordance with their relative standing.

(e) Each person licensed to act as a full-time guide will be issued a license in the following form:

(f) Each person licensed to act as a temporary or part-time guide, during periods of heavy visitation, will be issued a license in the following form:

(g) Before being issued a license to act as a guide, each applicant will be required to subscribe to the following agreement:
