
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 27 - CAPE COD NATIONAL SEASHORE; ZONING STANDARDS
#### ยง 27.1 General objectives.

(a) Consistent with the objectives set out in section 5 of the Act of August 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 284), development and management of the Cape Cod National Seashore will be conducted in a manner which will assure the widest possible public use, understanding and enjoyment of its natural, cultural and scientific features. The regulations in this part are designed and promulgated to establish minimum standards which local zoning bylaws must meet in furtherance of those purposes.

(b) The standards hereby established for approval of zoning bylaws or amendments of zoning bylaws-are intended: (1) To contribute to the effect of prohibiting the commercial and industrial use, other than existing commercial or industrial use not inconsistent with the purposes of the Act of August 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 284, 291), of all property within the boundaries of the Cape Cod National Seashore and situated in the towns of Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Eastham, Orleans and Chatham; and (2) to promote preservation and development, in accordance with the purposes of the said Act, of the area comprising the seashore, by means of acreage, frontage and setback requirements and other provisions which may be required to be included in zoning bylaws consistent with the laws of Massachusetts. Zoning bylaws or amendments of zoning bylaws applicable to the area within Cape Cod National Seashore, in order that they may be approved, shall conform to the standards herein set forth relating to preservation and development of the seashore in accordance with the purposes of the said Act. The Secretary shall be given notice of any amendments to approved zoning bylaws that affect the Seashore District. Nothing in these standards or in the zoning bylaws adopted pursuant thereto for the area within Cape Cod National Seashore shall preclude the Secretary of the Interior from fulfilling the responsibilities vested in him by the Act of August 7, 1961, or by the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), as amended and supplemented.

(c) Wherever the term "improved property" is used in this part it shall mean a detached, one-family dwelling, the land on which it is situated, and accessory structures, and as further defined in section 4(d) of the Act of August 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 284).
