
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 28 - FIRE ISLAND NATIONAL SEASHORE: ZONING STANDARDS
#### Subpart B - Federal Standards and Approval of Local Ordinances
##### ยง 28.10 Permitted and prohibited uses.
###### The Community Development District,Permitted uses.

(a)-(1)(i) The construction, alteration, expansion, movement, reconstruction, and maintenance of a detached building which is used principally as a single-family home, church, school, or community facility; as an accessory structure; or as an office for a professional occupation, as defined in approved local ordinances is permitted. Reconstruction of non-conforming uses is permitted in accordance with ยง 28.11. A professional office may be maintained only incidental to a residential use and shall be utilized by a person residing on the premises.

(ii) A commercial or industrial use in continuous and unchanged operation since September 11, 1964 is permitted. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use since September 11, 1964 including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure or a change in type, mode or manner of operation constitutes a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted subject to the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.

(iii) A commercial or industrial use initiated after September 11, 1964 constitutes a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted with the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use approved by a local zoning authority after September 11, 1964, including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure, or a change in type, location, mode or manner of operation, shall constitute a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted with approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.
