
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 28 - FIRE ISLAND NATIONAL SEASHORE: ZONING STANDARDS
#### Subpart B - Federal Standards and Approval of Local Ordinances
##### ยง 28.11 Nonconforming uses.
###### Reconstruction of nonconforming uses.

(c)If a nonconforming use or structure is severely damaged (as determined by fair professional insurance practices), destroyed or rendered a hazard, whether by fire, natural disaster, abandonment or neglect, no alteration, intensification, enlargement, reconstruction, extension, or movement is allowable without compliance with the following conditions:

(1) No use or structure within the Seashore built in violation of a local ordinance when constructed may be reconstructed except in compliance with the approved local zoning ordinance.

(2) Local building permit applications for reconstruction shall be filed with the appropriate zoning authority within one (1) year of the damage, destruction, or abandonment.

(3) A commercial or industrial use may not be reconstructed without the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.

(4) A nonconforming use in the Community Development District or in the Seashore District (i.e. "improved property") may be reconstructed to previous dimensions. It may not be altered, enlarged, intensified, extended, or moved except to bring the use or structure into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.

(5) A nonconforming use in the Dune District may be reconstructed if it can conform to the approved local zoning ordinance and lie north of the crest of the dune at the time of reconstruction.
