
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 28 - FIRE ISLAND NATIONAL SEASHORE: ZONING STANDARDS
#### Subpart B - Federal Standards and Approval of Local Ordinances
##### ยง 28.12 Development standards.

No use allowable under ยง 28.10 may be developed, constructed, altered, or conducted unless it complies with the following:

(a) A single-family home is the only type of development permitted in a residential district defined by a local zoning authority.

(b) Commercial or industrial development is limited to commercial or business districts defined by a zoning authority within the Community Development District. Such development must provide a service to Fire Island and will not be likely to cause significant harm to the natural resources of the Seashore.

(c) Minimum lot size is 4,000 square feet. A subdivision must comply with the subdivision requirements of the applicable zoning authority and may not result in development of any lot which is less than 4,000 feet.

(d) Maximum lot occupancy for all development may not exceed 35 percent of the lot. Lot occupancy is calculated to include all buildings and accessory structures on the property and any extension of the upper floors beyond the developed area on the ground level.

(e) Lot occupancy of all privately-held improved property in the Seashore District is limited to 35 percent of the square footage of a lot that is less than 7,500 square feet, and to 2,625 square feet for a lot 7,500 square feet or greater. Lot occupancy is calculated to include all buildings and accessory structures on the property and any extension of the upper floors beyond the developed area of the ground.

(f) No building or accessory structure may be erected to a height in excess of 28 feet as measured from the average existing ground elevation or the minimum elevation necessary to meet the prerequisites for Federal flood insurance as determined by the National Flood Insurance Program/FEMA shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Fire Island communities.

(g) A swimming pool is an allowable accessory structure and is calculated in measuring lot occupancy.

(h) No sign may be self-illuminated.

(i) A zoning authority shall have in effect limitations, requirements, or restrictions on the burning of cover and trash, excavation, displacement or removal of sand or vegetation, and the dumping, storing, or piling of refuse materials, equipment or other unsightly objects which would pose safety hazards and/or detract from the natural or cultural scene.

(j) A zoning authority shall have in place ordinances to lessen the potential for flood and related erosion and property losses consistent with the Federal Insurance Administration's National Flood Insurance Program criteria for "Land Management and Use," as set forth in 24 CFR part 1910, subpart A, as it may from time to time be amended.
