
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 51 - CONCESSION CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Solicitation, Selection and Award Procedures
##### ยง 51.16 How will the Director evaluate proposals and select the best one?

(a) The Director will apply the selection factors set forth in ยง 51.17 by assessing each timely proposal under each of the selection factors on the basis of a narrative explanation, discussing any subfactors when applicable. For each selection factor, the Director will assign a score that reflects the determined merits of the proposal under the applicable selection factor and in comparison to the other proposals received, if any. The first four principal selection factors will be scored from zero to five. The fifth selection factor will be scored from zero to four (with a score of one for agreeing to the minimum franchise fee contained in the prospectus). The secondary factor set forth in ยง 51.17(b)(1) will be scored from zero to three. Any additional secondary selection factors set forth in the prospectus will be scored as specified in the prospectus provided that the aggregate possible point score for all additional secondary selection factors may not exceed a total of three.

(b) The Director will then assign a cumulative point score to each proposal based on the assigned score for each selection factor.

(c) The responsive proposal with the highest cumulative point score will be selected by the Director as the best proposal. If two or more responsive proposals receive the same highest point score, the Director will select as the best proposal (from among the responsive proposals with the same highest point score), the responsive proposal that the Director determines on the basis of a narrative explanation will, on an overall basis, best achieve the purposes of this part. Consideration of revenue to the United States in this determination and in scoring proposals under principal selection factor five will be subordinate to the objectives of protecting, conserving, and preserving the resources of the park area and of providing necessary and appropriate visitor services to the public at reasonable rates.
