
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 60 - NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
#### § 60.6 Nominations by the State Historic Preservation Officer under approved State Historic Preservation programs.

(a) The State Historic Preservation Officer is responsible for identifying and nominating eligible properties to the National Register. Nomination forms are prepared under the supervision of the State Historic Preservation Officer. The State Historic Preservation Officer establishes statewide priorities for preparation and submittal of nominations for all properties meeting National Register criteria for evaluation within the State. All nominations from the State shall be submitted in accord with the State priorities, which shall be consistent with an approved State historic preservation plan.

(b) The State shall consult with local authorities in the nomination process. The State provides notice of the intent to nominate a property and solicits written comments especially on the significance of the property and whether or not it meets the National Register criteria for evaluation. The State notice also gives owners of private property an opportunity to concur in or object to listing. The notice is carried out as specified in the subsections below.

(c) As part of the nomination process, each State is required to notify in writing the property owner(s), except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, of the State's intent to bring the nomination before the State Review Board. The list of owners shall be obtained from either official land recordation records or tax records, whichever is more appropriate, within 90 days prior to the notification of intent to nominate. If in any State the land recordation or tax records is not the most appropriate list from which to obtain owners that State shall notify the Keeper in writing and request approval that an alternative source of owners may be used.

(d) For a nomination with more than 50 property owners, each State is required to notify in writing at least 30 but not more than 75 days in advance of the State Review Board meeting the chief elected local officials of the county (or equivalent governmental unit) and municipal political jurisdiction in which the property or district is located. The State shall provide general notice to property owners concerning the State's intent to nominate. The general notice shall be published at least 30 days but not more than 75 days before the State Review Board meeting and provide an opportunity for the submission of written comments and provide the owners of private property or a majority of such owners for districts an opportunity to concur in or object in writing to the nomination. Such general notice must be published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area of the nomination. The content of the notices shall be approved by the National Register. If such general notice is used to notify the property owners for a nomination containing more than 50 owners, it is suggested that a public information meeting be held in the immediate area prior to the State Review Board meeting. If the State wishes to individually notify all property owners, it may do so, pursuant to procedures specified in subsection 60.6(c), in which case, the State need not publish a general notice.

(e) For Multiple Resource and Thematic Group Format submission, each district, site, building, structure and object included in the submission is treated as a separate nomination for the purpose of notification and to provide owners of private property the opportunity to concur in or object in writing to the nomination in accord with this section.

(f) The commenting period following notifications can be waived only when all property owners and the chief elected local official have advised the State in writing that they agree to the waiver.

(g) Upon notification, any owner or owners of a private property who wish to object shall submit to the State Historic Preservation Officer a notarized statement certifying that the party is the sole or partial owner of the private property, as appropriate, and objects to the listing. In nominations with multiple ownership of a single private property or of districts, the property will not be listed if a majority of the owners object to listing. Upon receipt of notarized objections respecting a district or single private property with multiple owners, it is the responsibility of the State Historic Preservation Officer to ascertain whether a majority of owners of private property have objected. If an owner whose name did not appear on the list certifies in a written notarized statement that the party is the sole or partial owner of a nominated private property such owner shall be counted by the State Historic Preservation Officer in determining whether a majority of owners has objected. Each owner of private property in a district has one vote regardless of how many properties or what part of one property that party owns and regardless of whether the property contributes to the significance of the district.

(h) If a property has been submitted to and approved by the State Review Board for inclusion in the National Register prior to the effective date of this section, the State Historic Preservation Officer need not resubmit the property to the State Review Board; but before submitting the nomination to the NPS shall afford owners of private property the opportunity to concur in or object to the property's inclusion in the Register pursuant to applicable notification procedures described above.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Completed nomination forms or the documentation proposed for submission on the nomination forms and comments concerning the significance of a property and its eligibility for the National Register are submitted to the State Review Board. The State Review Board shall review the nomination forms or documentation proposed for submission on the nomination forms and any comments concerning the property's significance and eligibility for the National Register. The State Review Board shall determine whether or not the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation and make a recommendation to the State Historic Preservation Officer to approve or disapprove the nomination.

(k) Nominations approved by the State Review Board and comments received are then reviewed by the State Historic Preservation Officer and if he or she finds the nominations to be adequately documented and technically, professionally, and procedurally correct and sufficient and in conformance with National Register criteria for evaluation, the nominations are submitted to the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. All comments received by a State and notarized statements of objection to listing are submitted with a nomination.

(l) If the State Historic Preservation Officer and the State Review Board disagree on whether a property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the State Historic Preservation Officer, if he or she chooses, may submit the nomination with his or her opinion concerning whether or not the property meets the criteria for evaluation and the opinion of the State Review Board to the Keeper of the National Register for a final decision on the listing of the property. The opinion of the State Review Board may be the minutes of the Review Board meeting. The State Historic Preservation Officer shall submit such disputed nominations if so requested within 45 days of the State Review Board meeting by the State Review Board or the chief elected local official of the local, county or municipal political subdivision in which the property is located but need not otherwise do so. Such nominations will be substantively reviewed by the Keeper.

(m) The State Historic Preservation Officer shall also submit to the Keeper nominations if so requested under the appeals process in § 60.12.

(n) If the owner of a private property or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners have objected to the nomination prior to the submittal of a nomination, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall submit the nomination to the Keeper only for a determination of eligibility pursuant to subsection (s) of this section.

(o) The State Historic Preservation Officer signs block 12 of the nomination form if in his or her opinion the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation. The State Historic Preservation Officer's signature in block 12 certifies that:

(1) All procedural requirements have been met;

(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;

(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient;

(4) In the opinion of the State Historic Preservation Officer, the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation.

(p) When a State Historic Preservation Officer submits a nomination form for a property that he or she does not believe meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the State Historic Preservation Officer signs a continuation sheet Form NPS 10-900a explaining his/her opinions on the eligibility of the property and certifying that:

(1) All procedural requirements have been met;

(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;

(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient.

(q) Notice will be provided in thethat the nominated property is being considered for listing in the National Register of Historic Places as specified in § 60.13.

(r) Nominations will be included in the National Register within 45 days of receipt by the Keeper or designee unless the Keeper disapproves a nomination, an appeal is filed, or the owner of private property (or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners) objects by notarized statements received by the Keeper prior to listing. Nominations which are technically or professionally inadequate will be returned for correction and resubmission. When a property does not appear to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation, the nomination will be returned with an explanation as to why the property does not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation.

(s) If the owner of private property (or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners) has objected to the nomination by notarized statement prior to listing, the Keeper shall review the nomination and make a determination of eligibility within 45 days of receipt, unless an appeal is filed. The Keeper shall list such properties determined eligible in the National Register upon receipt of notarized statements from the owner(s) of private property that the owner(s) no longer object to listing.

(t) Any person or organization which supports or opposes the nomination of a property by a State Historic Preservation Officer may petition the Keeper during the nomination process either to accept or reject a nomination. The petitioner must state the grounds of the petition and request in writing that the Keeper substantively review the nomination. Such petitions received by the Keeper prior to the listing of a property in the National Register or a determination of its eligibility where the private owners object to listing will be considered by the Keeper and the nomination will be substantively reviewed.

(u) State Historic Preservation Officers are required to inform the property owners and the chief elected local official when properties are listed in the National Register. In the case of a nomination where there are more than 50 property owners, they may be notified of the entry in the National Register by the same general notice stated in § 60.6(d). States which notify all property owners individually of entries in the National Register need not publish a general notice.

(v) In the case of nominations where the owner of private property (or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners) has objected and the Keeper has determined the nomination eligible for the National Register, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the appropriate chief elected local official and the owner(s) of such property of this determination. The general notice may be used for properties with more than 50 owners as described in § 60.6(d) or the State Historic Preservation Officer may notify the owners individually.

(w) If subsequent to nomination a State makes major revisions to a nomination or renominates a property rejected by the Keeper, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the affected property owner(s) and the chief elected local official of the revisions or renomination in the same manner as the original notification for the nomination, but need not resubmit the nomination to the State Review Board. Comments received and notarized statements of objection must be forwarded to the Keeper along with the revisions or renomination. The State Historic Preservation Officer also certifies by the resubmittal that the affected property owner(s) and the chief elected local official have been renotified. "Major revisions" as used herein means revisions of boundaries or important substantive revisions to the nomination which could be expected to change the ultimate outcome as to whether or not the property is listed in the National Register by the Keeper.

(x) Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, the State Historic Preservation Officer in the nomination notification process or otherwise need not make available to any person or entity (except a Federal agency planning a project, the property owner, the chief elected local official of the political jurisdiction in which the property is located, and the local historic preservation commission for certified local governments) specific information relating to the location of properties proposed to be nominated to, or listed in, the National Register if he or she determines that the disclosure of specific information would create a risk of destruction or harm to such properties.

(y) With regard to property under Federal ownership or control, completed nomination forms shall be submitted to the Federal Preservation Officer for review and comment. The Federal Preservation Officer, may approve the nomination and forward it to the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240.
