
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 60 - NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
#### ยง 60.9 Nominations by Federal agencies.

(a) The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, requires that, with the advice of the Secretary and in cooperation with the State Historic Preservation Officer of the State involved, each Federal agency shall establish a program to locate, inventory and nominate to the Secretary all properties under the agency's ownership or control that appear to qualify for inclusion on the National Register. Section 2(a) of Executive Order 11593 provides that Federal agencies shall locate, inventory, and nominate to the Secretary of the Interior all sites, buildings, districts, and objects under their jurisdiction or control that appear to qualify for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Additional responsibilities of Federal agencies are detailed in the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, Executive Order 11593, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, and procedures developed pursuant to these authorities, and other related legislation.

(b) Nomination forms are prepared under the supervision of the Federal Preservation Officer designated by the head of a Federal agency to fulfill agency responsibilities under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended.

(c) Completed nominations are submitted to the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer for review and comment regarding the adequacy of the nomination, the significance of the property and its eligibility for the National Register. The chief elected local officials of the county (or equivalent governmental unit) and municipal political jurisdiction in which the property is located are notified and given 45 days in which to comment. The State Historic Preservation Officer signs block 12 of the nomination form with his/her recommendation.

(d) After receiving the comments of the State Historic Preservation Officer, and chief elected local official, or if there has been no response within 45 days, the Federal Preservation Officer may approve the nomination and forward it to the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. The Federal Preservation Officer signs block 12 of the nomination form if in his or her opinion the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation. The Federal Preservation Officer's signature in block 12 certifies that:

(1) All procedural requirements have been met;

(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;

(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient;

(4) In the opinion of the Federal Preservation Officer, the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation.

(e) When a Federal Preservation Officer submits a nomination form for a property that he or she does not believe meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the Federal Preservation Officer signs a continuation sheet Form NPS 10-900a explaining his/her opinions on the eligibility of the property and certifying that:

(1) All procedural requirements have been met;

(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;

(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient.

(f) The comments of the State Historic Preservation Officer and chief local official are appended to the nomination, or, if there are no comments from the State Historic Preservation Officer an explanation is attached. Concurrent nominations (see ยง 60.10) cannot be submitted, however, until the nomination has been considered by the State in accord with Sec. 60.6, supra. Comments received by the State concerning concurrent nominations and notarized statements of objection must be submitted with the nomination.

(g) Notice will be provided in thethat the nominated property is being considered for listing in the National Register of Historic Places in accord with ยง 60.13.

(h) Nominations will be included in the National Register within 45 days of receipt by the Keeper or designee unless the Keeper disapproves such nomination or an appeal is filed. Nominations which are technically or professionally inadequate will be returned for correction and resubmission. When a property does not appear to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation, the nomination will be returned with an explanation as to why the property does not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation.

(i) Any person or organization which supports or opposes the nomination of a property by a Federal Preservation Officer may petition the Keeper during the nomination process either to accept or reject a nomination. The petitioner must state the grounds of the petition and request in writing that the Keeper substantively review the nomination. Such petition received by the Keeper prior to the listing of a property in the National Register or a determination of its eligibility where the private owner(s) object to listing will be considered by the Keeper and the nomination will be substantively reviewed.
