
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 60 - NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
#### § 60.14 Changes and revisions to properties listed in the National Register.
##### Boundary changes.

(a)(1) A boundary alteration shall be considered as a new property nomination. All forms, criteria and procedures used in nominating a property to the National Register must be used. In the case of boundary enlargements only those owners in the newly nominated as yet unlisted area need be notified and will be counted in determining whether a majority of private owners object to listing. In the case of a diminution of a boundary, owners shall be notified as specified in § 60.15 concerning removing properties from the National Register. A professionally justified recommendation by the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program shall be presented to NPS. During this process, the property is not taken off the National Register. If the Keeper or his or her designee finds the recommendation in accordance with the National Register criteria for evaluation, the change will be accepted. If the boundary change is not accepted, the old boundaries will remain. Boundary revisions may be appealed as provided for in §§ 60.12 and 60.15.

(2) Four justifications exist for altering a boundary: Professional error in the initial nomination, loss of historic integrity, recognition of additional significance, additional research documenting that a larger or smaller area should be listed. No enlargement of a boundary should be recommended unless the additional area possesses previously unrecognized significance in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering or culture. No diminution of a boundary should be recommended unless the properties being removed do not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation. Any proposal to alter a boundary has to be documented in detail including photographing the historic resources falling between the existing boundary and the other proposed boundary.
