
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 60 - NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
#### ยง 60.14 Changes and revisions to properties listed in the National Register.
##### Relocating properties listed in the National Register.

(b)(1) Properties listed in the National Register should be moved only when there is no feasible alternative for preservation. When a property is moved, every effort should be made to reestablish its historic orientation, immediate setting, and general environment.

(2) If it is proposed that a property listed in the National Register be moved and the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal agency for a property under Federal ownership or control, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, wishes the property to remain in the National Register during and after the move, the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer having ownership or control or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, shall submit documentation to NPS prior to the move. The documentation shall discuss:

(i) The reasons for the move;

(ii) The effect on the property's historical integrity;

(iii) The new setting and general environment of the proposed site, including evidence that the proposed site does not possess historical or archeological significance that would be adversely affected by the intrusion of the property; and

(iv) Photographs showing the proposed location.

(3) Any such proposal with respect to the new location shall follow the required notification procedures, shall be approved by the State Review Board if it is a State nomination and shall continue to follow normal review procedures. The Keeper shall also follow the required notification procedures for nominations. The Keeper shall respond to a properly documented request within 45 days of receipt from the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer, or within 90 days of receipt from a person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, concerning whether or not the move is approved. Once the property is moved, the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program shall submit to the Keeper for review:

(i) A letter notifying him or her of the date the property was moved;

(ii) Photographs of the property on its new site; and

(iii) Revised maps, including a U.S.G.S. map,

(iv) Acreage, and

(v) Verbal boundary description.

(4) In the event that a property is moved, deletion from the National Register will be automatic unless the above procedures are followed prior to the move. If the property has already been moved, it is the responsibility of the State, Federal agency or person or local government which nominated the property to notify the National Park Service. Assuming that the State, Federal agency or person or local government wishes to have the structure reentered in the National Register, it must be nominated again on new forms which should discuss:

(i) The reasons for the move;

(ii) The effect on the property's historical integrity, and

(iii) The new setting and general environment, including evidence that the new site does not possess historical or archeological significance that would be adversely affected by intrusion of the property.

(5) Properties moved in a manner consistent with the comments of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, in accord with its procedures (36 CFR part 800), are granted as exception to ยง 60.12(b). Moving of properties in accord with the Advisory Council's procedures should be dealt with individually in each memorandum of agreement. In such cases, the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Federal Preservation Officer, for properties under Federal ownership or control, shall notify the Keeper of the new location after the move including new documentation as described above.
