
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR STATE, TRIBAL, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAMS
#### ยง 61.4 State programs.

(a) For a State to participate in the program that this part describes, the Governor must appoint and designate a State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) to administer the State historic preservation program.

(b) It is the responsibility of the SHPO to carry out the duties and activities that section 101 (b)(3) of the Act describes. In performing those duties and activities:

(1) The SHPO must carry out a historic preservation planning process that includes the development and implementation of a comprehensive statewide historic preservation plan that provides guidance for effective decision making about historic property preservation throughout the State.

(2) The SHPO, in addition to surveying and maintaining inventories of historic properties, may also obtain:

(i) Comparative data valuable in determining the National Register eligibility of properties;

(ii) Information on properties that may become eligible for the National Register of Historic Places with the passage of time; and/or

(iii) Information on the absence of historic properties for use in planning for public and private development projects.

(3) The SHPO must provide for adequate public participation in the State historic preservation program as a whole.

(i) As part of the process of recommending a property to the National Register, the SHPO must comply with the consultation and notification procedures contained in 36 CFR part 60.

(ii) The SHPO may authorize other persons or entities to fulfill the notice requirements in 36 CFR part 60 pursuant to the Secretary's written guidance.

(iii) The SHPO also may authorize the historic preservation review commission (Commission) of a certified local government (CLG) to act in place of the State Historic Preservation Review Board (Review Board) for the purpose of considering National Register nominations within its jurisdiction, provided that the Commission both meets the professional qualifications required for the Review Board when considering such nominations and otherwise follows the Secretary's written guidance.

(iv) In accordance with the Secretary's written guidance and with the consent of both the property owners in a nomination and the chief elected local official, the Review Board (or the Commission acting in its place) may consider the nomination without a face-to-face meeting.

(4) The SHPO may carry out all or any part of his or her responsibilities by contract or cooperative agreement with any qualified nonprofit organization, educational institution, or otherwise pursuant to State law. However, the SHPO may not delegate the responsibility for compliance with the Act or with grant assistance terms and conditions.

(c) The Secretary will consider individual SHPO proposals for programs that, for a specified period, include fewer duties than those section 101(b)(3) of the Act specifies, if a different approach would better serve an appropriate balance of historic property, customer or constituent, and historic preservation needs.
