
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR STATE, TRIBAL, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAMS
#### ยง 61.11 Information collection.
##### et seq.,

(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under 44 U.S.C. 3507has approved the collection of information contained in this part. OMB has assigned clearance number 1024-0038 to this collection of information. The National Park Service (NPS) collects this information as part of the process for reviewing the procedures and programs of State and local governments participating in the national historic preservation program and the Historic Preservation Fund grant program. NPS will use the information to evaluate those programs and procedures for consistency with the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, and compliance with government-wide grant requirements. The obligation to respond is required to obtain a benefit under these programs. Note that a Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. NPS provides no assurance of confidentiality to respondents with the exception of locational information concerning some properties that government historic preservation property inventories include. Pursuant to section 304 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, NPS tightly controls release of information when such release could have the potential of damaging those qualities which make a property historic.

(b) We estimate the public reporting burden for the collection of this information to average 14.06 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to Ms. Diane M. Cooke, Information Collection Officer, National Park Service, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20240 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of the Interior (1024-0038), Washington, D.C. 20503.
