
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 62 - NATIONAL NATURAL LANDMARKS PROGRAM
#### ยง 62.3 Effects of designation.

(a) Designation of an area by the Secretary as a national natural landmark is not a land withdrawal, does not change the ownership of an area, and does not dictate activity. However, Federal agencies consider the unique properties of designated national natural landmarks and of areas that meet the criteria for national significance in their planning and impact analysis (see ยง 62.6(f)), and there may be State or local planning or land use implications. Designation as a national natural landmark does not require or mandate under Federal law any further State or local planning, zoning or other land-use action or decision. Owners who agree to have their lands designated as a national natural landmark do not give up under Federal law any legal rights and privileges of ownership or use of the area. The Department does not gain any property interests in these lands.

(b) Benefits of national natural landmark designation include the positive recognition and appreciation of nationally significant resources and the ability of public agencies and private individuals and organizations to make more informed development and planning decisions early in regional planning processes. In addition, some private owners of commercially operated national natural landmarks that are open to public visitation may choose to recognize and emphasize the national significance of the areas by providing descriptive information to the public. Under section 170(h) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, some owners of national natural landmarks may be eligible to claim a charitable contribution deduction on their Federal income tax for qualified interests in their natural landmark property donated for a qualified conservation purpose to a qualified conservation organization.

(c) The Secretary will provide an annual report to the Congress on damaged or threatened designated national natural landmarks (see ยง 62.6(b)). The Secretary will also report to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation any designated national natural landmarks that may be irreparably lost or destroyed by surface mining activity (see ยง 62.6(e)).
