
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 64 - GRANTS AND ALLOCATIONS FOR RECREATION AND CONSERVATION USE OF ABANDONED RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### ยง 64.6 Application procedures.
##### Preapplications.

(a)A preapplication will be used to initially screen and select those projects for which a final application may be submitted for assistance. The preapplication will include:

(1) A Standard Form 424 (may be obtained from applicable Regional Offices of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation).

(2) A map showing the location of the property to be acquired and/or developed and its relation to surrounding land uses including other recreation/conservation resources.

(3) A program narrative statement.

(i) Where acquisition is involved the number of acres and real property interest to be acquired. Attach a copy of the abandonment notice.

(ii) The type of recreational/conservation use planned for the project site including the type of development to be included in the project (if a site plan is available it should be submitted).

(iii) A statement indicating separately the estimated acquisition and development costs.

(iv) A time schedule for completing the acquisition and development.

(v) A brief discussion of how the project embodies the selection criteria outlined in ยง 64.8.

(4) Indicate any known problems that will occur in obtaining clear title to the right-of-way.

(5) Because of the limited funds available applicants are encouraged to provide an alternative plan indicating a viable segment of the overall project which could possibly be funded at a lower amount in lieu of the complete project.
