
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 64 - GRANTS AND ALLOCATIONS FOR RECREATION AND CONSERVATION USE OF ABANDONED RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### ยง 64.7 Project selection and funding procedures.

(a) The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Regional Office will review all preapplications and Federal proposals to insure application completeness and eligibility. A copy of eligible preapplications or Federal proposals and supporting information and data will be submitted to the Washington Office of BOR for final review and selection. An information copy of each project preapplication and proposal will be submitted to the State Liaison Officer designated to coordinate Land and Water Conservation Fund activities.

(b) The Washington Office of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation will evaluate all projects submitted by the Regional Offices. Final selection of projects to be funded shall be by the Director of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation.

(c) State and local projects selected for funding will be approved and funds obligated by the appropriate Regional Director. Funds will not be obligated until the Bureau has met with the applicant to discuss the terms, conditions, and procedures required by the grant.

(d) Federal agency sponsored projects will be funded by transfer of funds from the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation to the sponsoring agency up to the amount of the project cost as shown in the agency's approved application.
