
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 64 - GRANTS AND ALLOCATIONS FOR RECREATION AND CONSERVATION USE OF ABANDONED RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### ยง 64.8 Project selection criteria.

Those projects which best meet the following criteria will be selected to receive assistance:

(a) Projects which have cleared abandonment procedures and for which sufficient control and tenure of land can be assured, in order that the project can be accomplished shortly after project approval.

(b) Projects which are located or originate in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas.

(c) The degree to which the project results in a facility which demonstrates maximum beneficial public use of the property acquired. (For example, the diversity of recreation/conservation opportunities provided.)

(d) The ease of accessibility to large numbers of potential users.

(e) The effectiveness of the project in enhancing existing Federal, State, or local recreation/conservation resources. (For example, the ability of the project to tie together existing recreation/conservation resources.)

(f) Whether use of the right-of-way for recreation/conservation purposes has been identified in existing State, Federal, or local plans.

(g) The degree to which the project advances new ideas in recreation/conservation use and promotes nonmotorized forms of transportation such as commuting by bicycle.

(h) The recreation/conservation potential of the environment traversed by the right-of-way.

(i) The energy conservation potential of using the right-of-way for recreation and/or commuting.

(j) The urgency of the acquisition as reflected by the plans of the owner of record to sell the property to persons other than the project sponsor.

(k) The degree to which Federal, State or local land use controls will protect the recreation and conservation values of the right-of-way from encroachment by conflicting uses of surrounding land.

(l) State and local projects involving the development of abandoned railroad rights-of-way which do not include the acquisition of the rights-of-way will be given lower funding priority than projects involving both acquisition and development.
