
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 64 - GRANTS AND ALLOCATIONS FOR RECREATION AND CONSERVATION USE OF ABANDONED RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY
#### ยง 64.9 Project costs (State and local projects).

To be eligible, acquisition and development costs must be incurred after the date of project approval and during the project period. The project period will be indicated in the project application. Waivers will be granted to proceed with the acquisition prior to project approval if the applicant can show there is a need for immediate action. Development costs are first incurred at the start of actual physical work on the project site. Acquisition costs are incurred on the date when the applicant makes full payment or accepts the deed or other appropriate conveyance. Project-related planning costs outlined in ยง 64.9(a)(3), may be incurred prior to project approval. The date from which they were incurred must be indicated in the project application.

(a) The types of project costs that are eligible for funding under this program are:

(1) Acquisition costs will be assisted on the basis of the price paid or the appraised fair market value, whichever is less. Costs incurred pursuant to the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, appraisal costs and other reasonable incidental costs associated with the acquisition.

(2) Construction costs associated with developing the right-of-way for recreation use.

(3) Project-related planning required for the acquisition, development and use of the abandoned rights-of-way including master planning, the preparation of development plans and specifications and surveys.

(4) Legal costs, audit costs, inspection fees, and project administration costs.

(b) Cost overruns will not be eligible for reimbursement. This means that no additional funding will be extended once a project is approved. Any cost overrun incurred on a project must be funded by the grantee.

(c) Principles and standards for determining costs applicable to State and local grants are found in Federal Management Circular 74-4 and part 670 of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Manual.
