
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 65 - NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARKS PROGRAM
#### ยง 65.5 Designation of National Historic Landmarks.
##### Theme studies.

(a)NPS defines and systematically conducts organized theme studies which encompass the major aspects of American history. The theme studies provide a contextual framework to evaluate the relative significance of historic properties and determine which properties meet National Historic Landmark criteria. Theme studies will be announced in advance through direct notice to appropriate State officials, Federal Preservation Officers and other interested parties and by notice in theWithin the established thematic framework, NPS will schedule and conduct National Historic Landmark theme studies according to the following priorities. Themes which meet more of these priorities ordinarily will be studied before those which meet fewer of the priorities:

(1) Theme studies not yet begun as identified in "History and Prehistory in the National Park System," 1982.

(2) Theme studies in serious need of revision.

(3) Theme studies which relate to a significant number of properties listed in the National Register bearing opinions of State Historic Preservation Officers and Federal Preservation Officers that such properties are of potential national significance. (Only those recommendations which NPS determines are likely to meet the landmarks criteria will be enumerated in determining whether a significant number exists in a theme study.)

(4) Themes which reflect the broad planning needs of NPS and other Federal agencies and for which the funds to conduct the study are made available from sources other than the regularly programmed funds of the National Historic Landmarks Program.
