
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 65 - NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARKS PROGRAM
#### ยง 65.5 Designation of National Historic Landmarks.
##### Special Studies.

(b)NPS will conduct special studies for historic properties outside of active theme studies according to the following priorities:

(1) Studies authorized by Congress or mandated by Executive Order will receive the highest priority.

(2) Properties which NPS determines are endangered and potentially meet the National Historic Landmarks criteria, whether or not the theme in which they are significant has been studied.

(3) Properties listed in the National Register bearing State or Federal agency recommendations of potential national significance where NPS concurs in the evaluation and the property is significant in a theme already studied.

(c)(1) When a property is selected for study to determine its potential for designation as a National Historic Landmark, NPS will notify in writing, except as provided below, (i) the owner(s), (ii) the chief elected local official, (iii) the appropriate State official, (iv) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located, and, (v) if the property is on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe, that it will be studied to determine its potential for designation as a National Historic Landmark. This notice will provide information on the National Historic Landmarks Program, the designation process and the effects of designation.

(2) When the property has more than 50 owners, NPS will notify in writing (i) the chief elected local official, (ii) the appropriate State official, (iii) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located, and, (iv) if the property is on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe, and (v) provide general notice to the property owners. This general notice will be published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area in which the potential National Historic Landmark is located and will provide information on the National Historic Landmarks Program, the designation process and the effects of designation. The researcher will visit each property selected for study unless it is determined that an onsite investigation is not necessary. In the case of districts with more than 50 owners NPS may conduct a public information meeting if widespread public interest so warrants or on request by the chief elected local official.

(3) Properties for which a study was conducted before the effective date of these regulations are not subject to the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section.

(4) The results of each study will be incorporated into a report which will contain at least

(i) A precise description of the property studied; and

(ii) An analysis of the significance of the property and its relationship to the National Historic Landmark criteria.

(d)(1) Properties appearing to qualify for designation as National Historic Landmarks will be presented to the Advisory Board for evaluation except as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.

(2) Before the Advisory Board's review of a property, NPS will provide written notice of this review, except as provided below, and a copy of the study report to (i) the owner(s) of record; (ii) the appropriate State official; (iii) the chief elected local official; (iv) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located; and, (v) if the property is located on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe. The list of owners shall be obtained from official land or tax record, whichever is most appropriate, within 90 days prior to the notification of intent to submit to the Advisory Board. If in any State the land or tax record is not the appropriate list an alternative source of owners may be used. NPS is responsible for notifying only those owners whose names appear on the list. Where there is more than one owner on the list each separate owner shall be notified.

(3) In the case of a property with more than 50 owners, NPS will notify, in writing, (i) the appropriate State official; (ii) the chief elected local official; (iii) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located; (iv) if the property is located on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe; and, (v) will provide general notice to the property owners. The general notice will be published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area in which the property is located. A copy of the study report will be made available on request. Notice of Advisory Board review will also be published in the

(4) Notice of Advisory Board review will be given at least 60 days in advance of the Advisory Board meeting. The notice will state date, time and location of the meeting; solicit written comments and recommendations on the study report; provide information on the National Historic Landmarks Program, the designation process and the effects of designation and provide the owners of private property not more than 60 days in which to concur in or object in writing to the designation. Notice of Advisory Board meetings and the agenda will also be published in theInterested parties are encouraged to submit written comments and recommendations which will be presented to the Advisory Board. Interested parties may also attend the Advisory Board meeting and upon request will be given an opportunity to address the Board concerning a property's significance, integrity and proposed boundaries.

(5) Upon notification, any owner of private property who wishes to object shall submit to the Chief, History Division, a notarized statement that the party is the sole or partial owner of record of the property, as appropriate, and objects to the designations. Such notice shall be submitted during the 60-day commenting period. Upon receipt of notarized objections respecting a district or an individual property with multiple ownership it is the responsibility of NPS to ascertain whether a majority of owners have so objected. If an owner whose name did not appear on the list certifies in a written notarized statement that the party is the sole or partial owner of a nominated private property such owner shall be counted by NPS in determining whether a majority of owners has objected. Each owner of private property in a district has one vote regardless of how many properties or what part of one property that party owns and regardless of whether the property contributes to the significance of the district.

(6) The commenting period following notification can be waived only when all property owners and the chief elected local official have agreed in writing to the waiver.

(e)(1) The Advisory Board evaluates such factors as a property's significance, integrity, proposed boundaries and the professional adequacy of the study. If the Board finds that these conditions are met, it may recommend to the Secretary that a property be designated or declared eligible for designation as a National Historic Landmark. If one or more of the conditions are not met, the Board may recommend that the property not be designated a landmark or that consideration of it be deferred for further study, as appropriate. In making its recommendation, the Board shall state, if possible, whether or not it finds that the criteria of the landmarks program have been met. A simple majority is required to make a recommendation of designation. The Board's recommendations are advisory.

(2) Studies submitted to the Advisory Board (or the Consulting Committee previously under the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service) before the effective date of these regulations need not be resubmitted to the Advisory Board. In such instances, if a property appears to qualify for designation, NPS will provide notice and a copy of the study report to the parties as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section and will provide at least 30 days in which to submit written comments and to provide an opportunity for owners to concur in or object to the designation.

(3) The Director reviews the study report and the Advisory Board recommendations, certifies that the procedural requirements set forth in this section have been met and transmits the study reports, the recommendations of the Advisory Board, his recommendations and any other recommendations and comments received pertaining to the properties to the Secretary.

(f) The Secretary reviews the nominations, recommendations and any comments and, based on the criteria set forth herein, makes a decision on National Historic Landmark designation. Properties that are designated National Historic Landmarks are entered in the National Register of Historic Places, if not already so listed.

(1) If the private owner or, with respect to districts or individual properties with multiple ownership, the majority of such owners have objected to the designation by notarized statements, the Secretary shall not make a National Historic Landmark designation but shall review the nomination and make a determination of its eligibility for National Historic Landmark designation.

(2) The Secretary may thereafter designate such properties as National Historic Landmarks only upon receipt of notarized statements from the private owner (or majority of private owners in the event of a district or a single property with multiple ownership) that they do not object to the designation.

(3) The Keeper may list in the National Register properties considered for National Historic Landmark designation which do not meet the National Historic Landmark criteria but which do meet the National Register criteria for evaluation in 36 CFR part 60 or determine such properties eligible for the National Register if the private owners or majority of such owners in the case of districts object to designation. A property determined eligible for National Historic Landmark designation is determined eligible for the National Register.

(g) Notice of National Historic Landmark designation, National Register listing, or a determination of eligibility will be sent in the same manner as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section. For properties which are determined eligible the Advisory Council will also be notified. Notice will be published in the

(h)(1) The Secretary may designate a National Historic Landmark without Advisory Board review through accelerated procedures described in this section when necessary to assist in the preservation of a nationally significant property endangered by a threat of imminent damage or destruction.

(2) NPS will conduct the study and prepare a study report as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(3) If a property appears to qualify for designation, the National Park Service will provide notice and a copy of the study report to the parties specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) and will allow at least 30 days for the submittal of written comments and to provide owners of private property an opportunity to concur in or object to designation as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section except that the commenting period may be less than 60 days.

(4) The Director will review the study report and any comments, will certify that procedural requirements have been met, and will transmit the study report, his and any other recommendations and comments pertaining to the property to the Secretary.

(5) The Secretary will review the nomination and recommendations and any comments and, based on the criteria set forth herein, make a decision on National Historic Landmark designation or a determination of eligibility for designation if the private owners or a majority of such owners of historic districts object.

(6) Notice of National Historic Landmark designation or a determination of eligibility will be sent to the same parties specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
