
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 65 - NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARKS PROGRAM
#### ยง 65.6 Recognition of National Historic Landmarks.

(a) Following designation of a property by the Secretary as a National Historic Landmark, the owner(s) will receive a certificate of designation. In the case of a district, the certificate will be delivered to the chief elected local official or other local official, or to the chief officer of a private organization involved with the preservation of the district, or the chief officer of an organization representing the owners of the district, as appropriate.

(b) NPS will invite the owner of each designated National Historic Landmark to accept, free of charge, a landmark plaque. In the case of a district, the chief elected local official or other local official, or the chief officer of an organization involved in the preservation of the district, or chief officer of an organization representing the owners of the district, as appropriate, may accept the plaque on behalf of the owners. A plaque will be presented to properties where the appropriate recipient(s) (from those listed above) agrees to display it publicly and appropriately.

(c) The appropriate recipient(s) may accept the plaque at any time after designation of the National Historic Landmark. In so doing owners give up none of the rights and privileges of ownership or use of the landmark property nor does the Department of the Interior acquire any interest in property so designated.

(d) NPS will provide one standard certificate and plaque for each designated National Historic Landmark. The certificate and plaque remain the property of NPS. Should the National Historic Landmark designation at any time be withdrawn, in accordance with the procedures specified in ยง 65.9 of these rules, or should the certificate and plaque not be publicly or appropriately displayed, the certificate and the plaque, if issued, will be reclaimed by NPS.

(e) Upon request, and if feasible, NPS will help arrange and participate in a presentation ceremony.
