
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 65 - NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARKS PROGRAM
#### ยง 65.7 Monitoring National Historic Landmarks.

(a) NPS maintains a continuing relationship with the owners of National Historic Landmarks. Periodic visits, contacts with State Historic Preservation Officers, and other appropriate means will be used to determine whether landmarks retain their integrity, to advise owners concerning accepted preservation standards and techniques and to update administrative records on the properties.

(b) Reports of monitoring activities form the basis for the annual report submitted to Congress by the Secretary of the Interior, as mandated by section 8, National Park System General Authorities Act of 1970, as amended (90 Stat. 1940, 16 U.S.C. 1a-5). The Secretary's annual report will identify those National Historic Landmarks which exhibit known or anticipated damage or threats to their integrity. In evaluating National Historic Landmarks for listing in the report, the seriousness and imminence of the damage or threat are considered, as well as the integrity of the landmark at the time of designation taking into account the criteria in ยง 65.4.

(c) As mandated in section 9, Mining in the National Parks Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 1342, 16 U.S.C. 1980), whenever the Secretary of the Interior finds that a National Historic Landmark may be irreparably lost or destroyed in whole or in part by any surface mining activity, including exploration for, removal or production of minerals or materials, the Secretary shall (1) notify the person conducting such activity of that finding;

(2) Submit a report thereon, including the basis for his finding that such activity may cause irreparable loss or destruction of a National Historic Landmark, to the Advisory Council; and

(3) Request from the Council advice as to alternative measures that may be taken by the United States to mitigate or abate such activity.

(d) Monitoring activities described in this section, including the preparation of the mandated reports to Congress and the Advisory Council are carried out by NPS regional offices under the direction of the Preservation Assistance Division, NPS [Address: Chief, Resource Assistance Division, National Park Service, 440 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20243] in consultation with the History Division, NPS.
