
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 67 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION CERTIFICATIONS UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
#### ยง 67.2 Definitions.
##### Certified Historic Structure

means a building (and its structural components) which is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which is either:

(a) Individually listed in the National Register; or

(b) Located in a registered historic district and certified by the Secretary as being of historic significance to the district.

Portions of larger buildings, such as single condominium apartment units, are no independently considered certified historic structures. Rowhouses, even with abutting or party walls, are considered as separate buildings. For purposes of the certification decisions set forth in this part, a certified historic structure encompasses the historic building and its site, landscape features, and environment, generally referred to herein as a "property" as defined below. The NPS decision on listing a property in the National Register of Historic Places, including boundary determinations, does not limit the scope of review of the rehabilitation project for tax certification purposes. Such review will include the entire historic property as it existed prior to rehabilitation and any related new construction. For purposes of the charitable contribution provisions only, a certified historic structure need not be depreciable to qualify; may be a structure other than a building; and may also be a remnant of a building such as a facade, if that is all that remains. For purposes of the other rehabilitation tax credits under section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code, any property located in a registered historic district is considered a certified historic structure so that other rehabilitation tax credits are not available; exemption from this provision can generally occur only if the Secretary has determined, prior to the rehabilitation of the property, that it is not of historic significance to the district.
