
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 67 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION CERTIFICATIONS UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
#### § 67.3 Introduction to certifications of significance and rehabilitation and information collection.

(a) Who may apply:

(1) Ordinarily, only the fee simple owner of the property in question may apply for the certifications described in §§ 67.4 and 67.6 hereof. If an application for an evaluation of significance or rehabilitation project is made by someone other than the fee simple owner, however, the application must be accompanied by a written statement from the fee simple owner indicating that he or she is aware of the application and has no objection to the request for certification.

(2) Upon request of a SHPO the Secretary may determine whether or not a particular property located within a registered historic district qualifies as a certified historic structure. The Secretary shall do so, however, only after notifying the fee simple owner of record of the request, informing such owner of the possible tax consequences of such a decision, and permitting the property owner a 30-day time period to submit written comments to the Secretary prior to decision. Such time period for comment may be waived by the fee simple owner.

(3) The Secretary may undertake the certifications described in §§ 67.4 and 67.6 on his own initiative after notifying the fee simple owner and the SHPO and allowing a comment period as specified in § 67.3(a)(2).

(4) Owners of properties which appear to meet National Register criteria but are yet listed in the National Register or which are located within potential historic districts may request preliminary determinations from the Secretary as to whether such properties may qualify as certified historic structures when and if the properties or the potential historic districts in which they are located are listed in the National Register. Preliminary determinations may also be requested for properties outside the period or area of significance of registered historic districts as specified in § 67.5(c). Procedures for obtaining these determinations shall be the same as those described in § 67.4. Such determinations are preliminary only and are not binding on the Secretary. Preliminary determinations of significance will become final as of the date of the listing of the individual property or district in the National Register. For properties outside the period or area of significance of a registered historic district, preliminary determinations of significance will become final, except as provided below, when the district documentation on file with the NPS is formally amended. If during review of a request for certification of rehabilitation, it is determined that the property does not contribute to the significance of the district because of changes which occurred after the preliminary determination of significance was made, certified historic structure designation will be denied.

(5) Owners of properties not yet designated certified historic structures may obtain determinations from the Secretary on whether or not rehabilitation proposals meet the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation. Such determinations will be made only when the owner has requested a preliminary determination of the significance of the property as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and such request for determination has been acted upon by the NPS. Final certifications of rehabilitation will be issued only to owners of certified historic structures. Procedures for obtaining these determinations shall be the same as those described in sec. 67.6.

(b) How to apply:

(1) Requests for certifications of historic significance and of rehabilitation shall be made on Historic Preservation Certification Applications (NPS Form No. 10-168). Normally, two copies of the application are required; one to be retained by the SHPO and the other to be forwarded to the NPS. The information collection requirements contained in the application and in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number 1024-0009. Part 1 of the application shall be used in requesting a certification of historic significance or nonsignificance and preliminary determinations, while part 2 of the application shall be used in requesting an evaluation of a proposed rehabilitation project or, in conjunction with a Request for Certification of Completed Work, a certification of a completed rehabilitation project. Information contained in the application is required to obtain a benefit. Public reporting burden for this form is estimated to average 2.5 hours per response including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the form. Direct comments regarding this burden estimate or any aspect of this form may be made to the Chief, Administrative Services Division, National Park Service, P.O. Box 37127, Washington, DC 20013-7127 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project Number 1024-0009, Washington, DC 20503.

(2) Application forms are available from NPS WASO or the SHPOs.

(3) Requests for certifications, preliminary determinations, and approvals of proposed rehabilitation projects shall be sent to the SHPO in participating States. Requests in nonparticipating States shall be sent directly to the appropriate NPS WASO.

(4) Generally reviews of certification requests are concluded within 60 days of receipt of a complete, adequately documented application, as defined § 67.4 and § 67.6 (30 days at the State level and 30 days at the Federal level). Where a State has chosen not to participate in the review process, review by the NPS generally is concluded within 60 days of receipt of a complete, adequately documented application. Where adequate documentation is not provided, the owner will be notified of the additional information needed to undertake or complete review. The time periods in this part are based on the receipt of a complete application; they will be adhered to as closely as possible and are defined as calendar days. They are not, however, considered to be mandatory, and the failure to complete review within the designated periods does not waive or alter any certification requirement.

(5) Approval of applications and amendments to applications is conveyed only in writing by duly authorized officials of the NPS acting on behalf of the Secretary. Decisions with respect to certifications are made on the basis of the descriptions contained in the application form and other available information. In the event of any discrepancy between the application form and other, supplementary material submitted with it (such as architectural plans, drawings, specifications, etc.), the applicant shall be requested to resolve the discrepancy in writing. In the event the discrepancy is not resolved, the description in the application form shall take precedence. Falsification of factual representations in the application is subject to criminal sanctions of up to $10,000 in fines or imprisonment for up to five years pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001.

(6) It is the owner's responsibility to notify the Secretary if application reviews are not completed within the time periods specified above. The Secretary in turn will consult with the appropriate office to ensure that the review is completed in as timely manner as possible in the circumstances.

(7) Although certifications of significance and rehabilitation are discussed separately below, owners must submit part 1 of the Historic Preservation Certification Application prior to, or with, part 2. Part 2 of the application will not be processed until an adequately documented part 1 is on file and acted upon unless the property is already a certified historic structure. Reviews of rehabilitation projects will also not be undertaken if the owner has objected to the listing of the property in the National Register.
