
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 71 - RECREATION FEES
#### ยง 71.6 Golden Age Passport.

(a) Issuance of the Golden Age Passport:

(1) Golden Age Passports will be issued by appropriate Federal personnel (hereinafter "Issuing Officer") at National Park Service headquarters, Washington, D.C., and at field offices designated by the heads of the bureaus administering Designated Entrance Fee Areas and Designated Recreation Use Facilities.

(2) The Golden Age Passport will be issued free of charge upon the presentation of identification or information which attests to the fact that the applicant is a person 62 years of age or older and a citizen of the United States, or if not a citizen, domiciled therein. To satisfy the age requirement such identification may include, but is not limited to a State driver's license or birth certificate. To satisfy the citizenship requirement, such identification may include, but is not limited to, a birth certificate or a voter registration card issued by a State or Territory, or a political subdivision thereof, of the United States.

(3) For the purpose of this section, an applicant should be regarded as being "domiciled" in the United States if he has a fixed and permanent residence in the United States or its Territories to which he has the intention of returning whenever he is absent. Accordingly, an alien may be domiciled in the United States if he maintains a fixed and permanent residence therein to which he has the intention of returning whenever he is absent. An alien who temporarily travels or works in the United States, even for a period of years, shall not be regarded as domiciled therein if that alien has no intention of permanently maintaining his residence in the United States.

(4) The Golden Age Passport, commencing with the issuance of the 1975 Golden Age Passports, shall be a lifetime permit valid for the life of the permittee.

(5) Any applicant meeting the age and other requirements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section not having in his possession any identification or information evidencing his qualification for a Golden Age Passport may be issued such a Passport on the basis of the affidavit below, if such an affidavit is signed in front of the Issuing Officer.

(6) The Passport must be applied for in person and signed in front of the Issuing Officer or otherwise it will be treated as invalid.

(7) The Golden Age Passport shall be nontransferable and the unlawful use thereof shall be punishable in the manner described in ยง 71.12 of this part.

(b) The Golden Age Passport shall admit the permittee and any persons accompanying him in a single, private, noncommercial vehicle, or alternatively, the permittee and his spouse and children accompanying him where entry to the areas is by means other than private, noncommercial vehicle to Designated Entrance Fee Areas. Golden Age Passport coverage does not include a permittee and his spouse or children entering a Designated Entrance Fee Area in two separate, private, noncommercial vehicles. In this case, only the vehicle with the permittee shall be covered by the Passport. The persons in the second vehicle shall be subject to the single-visit entrance fee requirement.

(1) "Private, noncommercial vehicle," for the purposes of this subsection, shall be defined the same as in ยง 71.5(b)(1).

(2) "Accompanying," for the purpose of this subsection, shall be defined the same as in ยง 71.5(b)(2).

(c) Any Golden Age Passport permittee shall be entitled upon presentation of the Passport to utilize Designated Recreation Use Facilities at a rate of 50 percent of the established recreation use fees.

(d) The Golden Age Passport does not authorize any specialized recreation use for which a special recreation permit fee is changed.
