
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 71 - RECREATION FEES
#### ยง 71.7 Entrance fees for single-visit permits.

(a) Entrance fees for single-visit permits shall be selected by the National Park Service from within the range of fees listed below, provided that such fees are established in accordance with the following criteria:

(1) The direct and indirect cost to the Government;

(2) The benefit to the recipient;

(3) The public policy or interest served;

(4) The comparable recreation fees charged by other Federal and non-Federal public agencies within the service area of the management unit at which the fee is charged;

(5) The economic and administrative feasibility of fee collection; and,

(6) Other pertinent factors.

(b) There shall be two types of single-visit entrance fees charged at Designated Entrance Fee Areas for those persons not covered by either Golden Eagle or Golden Age Passports.

(1) The fee for a single-visit permit applicable to those persons entering by private, noncommercial vehicle shall be no more than $3 per vehicle. The single-visit permit shall admit the permittee and all persons accompanying him in said vehicle. The single-visit permit shall be valid only at the one Designated Entrance Fee Area for which it was purchased. "Accompanying," for the purpose of this section, shall mean entering together with the permittee while being transported by the same private, noncommercial vehicle which the permittee occupies.

(2) The fee for a single-visit permit applicable to those persons entering by any means other than private, noncommercial vehicle shall be no more than $1.50 per person and shall be valid at the one Designated Entrance Fee Area for which it is paid.

(c) Any of the permits provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be valid at the Designated Entrance Fee Area for which it was purchased during the same calendar day of purchase. In addition, at overnight use areas, the single-visit permit shall be valid as long as the permittee and those covered by his permit remain within the boundaries of the Designated Entrance Fee Area, beginning from the first day of entry until the day of departure; except that on the same day that the entrance fee is paid, the permittee and those covered by the permit may leave and reenter without payment of additional fees.
