
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 71 - RECREATION FEES
#### ยง 71.13 Exceptions, exclusions, and exemptions.

In the application of the provisions of this part, the following exceptions, exclusions, and exemptions shall apply:

(a) Nothing contained herein shall authorize Federal hunting or fishing licenses or fees;

(b) No entrance fee shall be charged for travel by private noncommercial vehicle over any National Parkway, or any road or highway established as part of the National Federal-Aid System, which is commonly used by the public as a means of travel between two places, either or both of which are outside the Designated Entrance Fee Area;

(c) No entrance fee shall be charged for travel by private noncommercial vehicle over any road or highway to any land in which such person has any property right if such land is within any Designated Entrance Fee Area.

(d) No Federal recreation fee shall be charged for commercial or other activities not related to recreation, including, but not limited to, organized tours or outings conducted for educational or scientific purposes related to the resources of the area visited by bona fide institutions established for these purposes. Applicants for waiver of fees on this basis will be required to provide documentation of their official recognition as educational or scientific institutions by Federal, State or local government bodies and will also be required to provide a statement as to the purposes of the visit proposed. The use of any recreation facilities for which a fee waiver is requested must relate directly to scientific or educational purposes of the visit and may not be primarily for recreational purposes. No Federal recreation fee shall be charged any hospital inmate actively involved in medical treatment or therapy in the area visited.

(e) No entrance fee shall be charged any person conducting State, local, or Federal government business.

(f) No entrance fee shall be charged at any entrance to Great Smoky Mountains National Park unless such fees are charged at main highway and thoroughfare entrances.

(g) No entrance fees shall be charged for persons who have not reached their 16th birthday.

(h) Until July 12, 1975, no entrance fee shall be charged a foreign visitor to the United States seeking admission to any Designated Entrance Fee Area upon presentation of a valid passport.

(i) No entrance fees shall be charged persons having a right of access to lands or waters within a Designated Entrance Fee Area for hunting or fishing privileges under a specific provision of law or treaty.
