
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 71 - RECREATION FEES
#### § 71.15 The Golden Eagle Insignia.
##### Definitions.

(a)(1) The term "The Golden Eagle Insignia" (hereinafter "Insignia") as used in this section, means the words "The Golden Eagle" and the representation of an American Golden Eagle (colored gold) and a family group (colored midnight blue) enclosed within a circle (colored white with a midnight blue border) framed by a rounded triangle (colored gold with a midnight blue border) which was originated by the Department of the Interior as the official symbol for Federal recreation fee areas.

(2) The term "Secretary" as used in this section, means the Secretary of the Interior or any person designated to act for him in any matter to which this section refers.

(3) The term "commercial use," as used in this section, refers to any use, including the reproduction, manufacture, importation, or distribution, of the Insignia the primary purpose of which is to make a profit.

(4) The term "public service use," as used in this section, refers to any use, including the reproduction, manufacture, importation, or distribution, of the Insignia the primary purpose of which is to contribute to the public's information and education about the Federal recreation fee program.

(5) The term "official use" refers to uses of the Insignia pursuant to §§ 71.4, 71.5, 71.6, 71.8, 71.10, and 71.14, including, but not limited to, the posting of areas, facilities, and uses with the designation sign described in § 71.4(a), and the design of Golden Eagle and Golden Age Passports, and uses of the Insignia by other Federal agencies.

(6) The Golden Eagle program refers to the Federal outdoor recreation fee program, which provides for the designation of entrance fee areas, recreation use facilities, special recreation permit uses, the issuance of Golden Eagle and Golden Age Passports, and the collection and enforcement of fees at Federal areas and facilities and for specialized recreation uses established by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16 U.S.C.A. 4601-6a (Supp., 1974), as amended.
