
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 71 - RECREATION FEES
#### ยง 71.15 The Golden Eagle Insignia.
##### Licenses for commercial and public service use.

(b)(1) Any person, business, or organization (hereinafter called the applicant) wishing a license for commercial or public service use of the Insignia must make written application to the Secretary stating:

(i) The nature and scope of the intended use.

(ii) The applicant's name and address.

(iii) The nature of the applicant's business or activities, and the relationship between the intended use and said business or activities.

(2) The Secretary, in determining whether to grant a license for the commercial use of the Insignia, will consider the following criteria:

(i) Whether the intended use will be an enhancement of the Golden Eagle program which would complement the program as it is administered by Federal recreation agencies and departments.

(ii) Whether the intended use is likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive the general public by creating the impression that the use is official.

(iii) Whether the intended use is injurious to the integrity of the concept of the Insignia.

(iv) Whether the intended use is capable of generating enough royalty fee revenue to justify the administrative costs of licensing.

(3) The Secretary, in determining whether to grant a license for the public service use of the Insignia, will consider the following criteria:

(i) Whether the intended use will be an enhancement of the Golden Eagle program which would complement the program as it is administered by Federal recreation agencies and departments.

(ii) Whether the intended use is injurious to the integrity of the concept of the Insignia.

(4) Any license granted by the Secretary for commercial use of the Insignia is subject to the following terms and conditions:

(i) The license is nontransferable.

(ii) All proposed uses of the Insignia must be approved by the Secretary prior to manufacture, importation, or reproduction by the licensee. The Insignia shall not be used in conjunction with substances inherently dangerous to the public.

(iii) The license shall contain equal employment opportunity provisions in compliance with Executive Order 11246, 30 FR 12319 (1965), as amended, and regulations issued pursuant thereto (41 CFR Ch. 60) unless the royalty fees to be paid under the license are not expected to exceed $10,000.
