
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart C - Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation
##### ยง 72.37 Pass-through funding.

Section 1006(a)(1) of the Act states that at the discretion of the applicant jurisdiction, and if consistent with an approved application, Rehabilitation and Innovation grants may be transferred in whole or in part to independent special purpose local governments, private non-profit agencies (including incorporated community or neighborhood groups) or city, county, or regional park authorities, provided that assisted recreation areas owned or managed by them offer recreation opportunities to the general public within the boundaries of the applicant's jurisdiction. No UPARR funds may be passed through for Recovery Action Program grants. The decision on whether or not to pass money through to non-profit organizations or governmental units is made by the applicant jurisdiction which is responsible for the grant; not NPS. Organizations, agencies or governmental units seeking funding assistance on a pass-through basis must work with an applicant jurisdiction in the preparation of the UPARR application, and the applicant jurisdiction will be responsible for the submission of the application. The applicant jurisdiction has full responsibility and liability for funds passed through to subgrantees. In the event of default by the pass-through recipient, the applicant jurisdiction must assume responsibility for ensuring that all provisions of the grant agreement are carried out, including the continued delivery of recreation services resulting from the grant. The pass-through of funds may constitute the entire grant proposal submitted by an applicant jurisdiction, or may be only a portion of it.
