
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart C - Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation
##### ยง 72.37 Pass-through funding.
###### Recommended pass-through recipient standards.

(2)Because the grantee has full responsibility for the pass-through grant, the grantee should ensure that subgrantees meet the following minimum standards.

(i) Demonstrate a history of providing recreation services to the distressed community. The history of providing recreation services must be commensurate with the amount of UPARR assistance requested. A pass-through subgrantee may be a non-profit or neighborhood organization which has provided other social services to the community, or a newly formed, but reliable and capable group which can reasonably be expected to comply with grant and project requirements.

(ii) Take responsibility for the same application, administration and compliance responsibilities as that of the applicant jurisdiction.

(iii) Certify that property improved or developed with UPARR funds will remain dedicated to public recreation use.

(iv) Work through and with the applicant jurisdiction.

(v) Demonstrate that the existing, or soon to be developed, recreation property which it owns or operates is accessible to residents of targeted distressed areas.

(vi) Demonstrate adequate tenure and control of the property to be rehabilitated or used for innovation, through lease or ownership.

(vii) Establish a contractual agreement with the applicant juisdiction which is binding and enforceable to assure that the applicant jurisdiction can adequately meet its contractual obligations under the grant.

(viii) Be empowered to contract or otherwise conduct the activities to be supported as a result of the grant.

(ix) Not discriminate on the basis of residence except in reasonable fee differentials.

(x) Be generally recognized as a provider of service to urban residents.

(xi) Have adequate financial resources, the necessary experience, organization, technical qualifications and facilities; or a firm commitment, arrangement, or ability to obtain such.

(xii) Have an adequate financial management system which provides efficient and effective accountability and control of all property, funds, and assets sufficient to meet grantee needs and grantee audit requirements.

(xiii) Private non-profit agencies or corporations should also be properly incorporated as a non-profit organization with an elected and autonomous board which meets regularly.
