
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart C - Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation
##### ยง 72.44 Fundable elements: Rehabilitation and Innovation grant common elements.

(a) All Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals must be based on priorities identified in the applicant jurisdiction's local Recovery Action Program. An applicant may apply for UPARR assistance only in an amount which, together with other available public and private resources, is adequate to complete the work approved by the grant agreement. The applicant must document the availability and source of these resources at the time of preapplication for UPARR assistance. Fundable elements in both Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals may include: materials and labor, site planning, architectural and engineering fees, and other costs for activities necessary to complete the approved project. Reasonable architectural and engineering fees essential to the preparation of a proposal application, incurred within a period 9 months prior to preapplication submission to NPS, are reimbursable. Architectural and engineering fees prior to the 9 month period will not be eligible for reimbursement or cost sharing. Other costs incurred prior to approval of any UPARR grant, and fees to consultants for preparation of UPARR grant applications are not reimbursable. No more than 5 percent of the total grant cost may be used by the grantee or pass-through sub-grantee for grant administrative costs. The remaining funds must be made available for projects. Any costs incurred for travel outside the local applicant jurisdiction will not be reimbursable without prior approval from NPS.
