
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart C - Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation
##### ยง 72.45 Fundable elements: Innovation grants.

(a) Innovation grants may cover costs related to improved delivery of recreation services (including personnel, training, facilities, recreation equipment and supplies), except those which pertain to routine operation and maintenance not directly related to the provision of recreation opportunities. All equipment and supply requests in Innovation proposals will be reviewed to assure that they will substantially contribute to the recreation services intended under the specific grant. The intent of Innovation grants is to test new ideas, concepts and approaches aimed at improving facility design, operations or programming in the delivery of neighborhood recreation services. They should also contribute to a systems approach to recreation by linking recreation services with other critical community programs; such as transportation, housing, and health programs. The UPARR Program will competitively choose the best quality Innovation proposals with nationwide demonstration potential, and which serve people who most need the new recreation services. An innovative community recreation project may be a service, a process, an organizational arrangement or a technique. The innovation should demonstrate a concept that is untried, unique, and/or advances the state of the art for recreation. Ideas from successful Innovation proposals will be disseminated nationwide through annual progress reports to Congress, as required in section 1015(b) of the Act, and through the ongoing technical assistance efforts of NPS. Information seminars, workshops and other techniques may also be used to provide the greatest possible exposure of these ideas for use in other communities. Because the legislation limits the yearly funds available for Innovation grants (not more than 10% of funds authorized), the majority of Innovation grants should ideally be monetarily smaller awards aimed at leveraging public and private community support and providing activities with high demonstration value, rather than large-scale development or expansion projects. The long-range intent of funding innovative proposals is to support and demonstrate a great variety of ideas during the five year implementation of the UPARR Program. For this reason, only one or two proposals having a similar emphasis or approach will be funded. Proposed Innovation projects which have been demonstrated before or are currently being operated in other cities, may be considered for UPARR assistance if the application identifies and addresses the question of the special nature or circumstances surrounding the new project.
