
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 5 - COMMERCIAL AND PRIVATE OPERATIONS
#### ยง 5.2 Alcoholic beverages; sale of intoxicants.

(a) The sale of alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, or fermented liquor, containing more than 1 percent of alcohol by weight, shall conform with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations (See also ยง 2.35 of this chapter.)

(b) No such liquor shall be sold on any privately owned lands under the legislative jurisdiction of the United States within Glacier, Lassen Volcanic Mesa Verde, Denali, Mount Rainier, Olympic, Rocky Mountain, Sequoia-Kings Canyon, Yellowstone, or Yosemite National Parks, unless a permit for the sale thereof has first been secured from the appropriate Regional Director.

(1) In granting or refusing applications for permits as herein provided, the Regional Directors shall take into consideration the character of the neighborhood, the availability of other liquor-dispensing facilities, the local laws governing the sale of liquor, and any other local factors which have a relationship to the privilege requested.

(2) A fee will be charged for the issuance of such a permit, corresponding to that charged for the exercise of similar privileges outside the park area boundaries by the State government, or appropriate political subdivision thereof within whose exterior boundaries the place covered by the permit is situated.

(3) The applicant or permittee may appeal to the Director from any final action of the appropriate Regional Director refusing, conditioning or revoking the permit. Such an appeal shall be filed, in writing, within 20 days after receipt of notice by the applicant or permittee of the action appealed from. Any final decision of the Director may be appealed to the Secretary of the Interior within 15 days after receipt of notice by the applicant or permittee of the Director's decision.

(4) The permit for sale of intoxicating liquors shall contain such general and special conditions as the Regional Director may deem reasonably necessary to insure safe and orderly management of the park area.

(5) The permittee shall comply with all State and county laws and regulations, other than fee and license requirements, which would be applicable to the premises and to the sale and dispensing of intoxicating beverages if the privately owned lands were not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
