
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart C - Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation
##### ยง 72.45 Fundable elements: Innovation grants.
###### Basic types of Innovation proposals.

(b)Types of Innovation proposals which can be funded are suggested by, but not limited to, the following types:

(1) The unique integration of recreation with other community services; such as transportation, public housing and public safety; either to expand or update current services, or to link programs within the social service structure of a neighborhood, or between neighborhoods.

(2) New management and cost-saving or service-efficient approaches for improving the delivery of recreation services should be fundamental to all Innovation and Rehabilitation proposals, and may also be the prime focus of an Innovation proposal. Extending hours of operation, increasing the variety of recreation programs, contracting with commercial or private non-profit agencies to supply specific recreation services, or assisting citizens in designing and operating their own programs, are examples of management approaches.

(3) New approaches to facility design which emphasize user needs and preferences and promote efficient operation and energy conservation.

(4) New fiscal techniques to generate revenue for continuing operation and maintenance, such as tax credits.

(5) Techniques for improving transportation and access to recreation opportunities.

(6) Techniques to facilitate private, non-profit, and community involvement in providing recreation opportunities.

(7) Improved use of land resources; such as utilizing abandoned railroads and highway rights-of-way, waterfronts, street spaces, or derelict land for recreation.

(8) Adaptive reuse or multiple use of public or private facilities and areas. (Private areas or facilities utilized must be opened to the public.)

(9) Techniques to prevent or reduce crime, abuse and vandalism; such as better design, non-destructible building materials, or use of community volunteers to supervise areas.

(10) Communications and public awareness of recreation opportunities, including education in leisure services; but excluding research.
