
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart D - Grant Selection, Approval and Administration
##### ยง 72.50 Grant selection criteria.
###### Rehabilitation Grant Selection Criteria.

(b)The following criteria will be used to evaluate and rank Rehabilitation proposals:

(1) The Federal UPARR investment per person served by the entire system; relationship between the size of the community and the amount of grant funds requested. Highest priority will be given to proposals with lower per capita costs in relation to recreation benefits provided.

(2) Providing neighborhood recreation needs. Higher priority will be given to proposals serving close-to-home recreation needs, lower priority to those serving area or jurisdiction-wide needs.

(3) Condition of existing recreation properties to be rehabilitated, including the urgency of rehabilitation and the need to maintain existing services.

(4) Improvement in the quality and quantity of recreation services as a result of rehabilitation, including improvements at specific sites and overall enhancement of the recreation system.

(5) Improvement of recreation service to minority and low to moderate income residents, special populations, and distressed neighborhoods.

(6) Proposal's consistency with local government objectives and priorities for overall community revitalization.

(7) Neighborhood employment opportunities created.

(8) State participation in the proposal, including financial and technical assistance.

(9) Private participation by both the non-profit and for-profit sectors in the proposal, including contributions of financial assistance.

(10) Jurisdiction's commitment to implementing its overall Recovery Action Program.
