
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart D - Grant Selection, Approval and Administration
##### ยง 72.50 Grant selection criteria.
###### Innovation Grant Selection Criteria.

(c)The following criteria will be used to evaluate and rank Innovation proposals:

(1) Degree to which the proposal provides a new, unique or more effective means of delivering a recreation service that can serve as a model for other communities.

(2) Degree of citizen involvement in proposal conceptualization and implementation.

(3) Degree to which the proposal may lead to a positive, systemic change in how park and recreation services are provided. Extent to which the proposal creates opportunities for new partnerships between the people affected, private interests within the community, and public agencies (e.g., Mayor's Office, Recreation Department, Board of Education, Planning Department, social service agencies).

(4) Degree of commitment of community and proposal participants to continue the long term program objectives, including commitments to continue funding after the requested Federal grant money is no longer available. Extent of private resources committed to providing funds or in-kind services for continuing operation and maintenance of projects.

(5) Degree to which proposal managers use the Federal funds to leverage greater public or private investments (in the form of services and materials, as well as dollars).

(6) Degree to which the proposal provides potential coordination with other community, State and Federal programs of community development and those providing recreation to the target population (e.g., public and private non-profit, education programs, CETA for employment, HUD programs).

(7) Extent of improvement in the quality and quantity of recreation services as a result of the Innovation project.

(8) Degree to which the proposal ties in with goals, priorities and implementation strategies expressed in the local park and recreation Recovery Action Program.

(9) Degree to which the proposal leads to a transfer of a recreation role traditionally performed by a public entity, to quasi-public or private non-profit interests. This degree means the degree to which the private sector can take full responsibility, supplement, or fill the gaps in public recreation services, management or operation; either through a transfer of funding responsibility, or an exchange of technique or method approaches which may prove to be more effective under the private sector. This should in no way alter the public sector responsibility to continue to provide and/or monitor good quality recreation facilities and services.

(10) Degree to which a proposal benefits disadvantaged community populations and/or those areas within a distressed community which have the greatest recreation deficiencies.
