
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart E - Post-Completion Compliance Responsibilities
##### ยง 72.72 Conversion requirements.
###### Background and legal requirements.

(a)The UPARR program has made funds available for the renovation and rehabilitation of numerous urban parks and recreation facilities. In many cases, the UPARR funds were used only in a portion of a site or facility or were only a small percentage of the funds required to renovate or rehabilitate a property. Nevertheless, all recipients of funds for renovation and rehabilitation projects are obligated by the terms of the grant agreement to continually maintain the site or facility for public recreation use regardless of the percent of UPARR funds expended relative to the project and the facility as a whole. This provision is contained in the UPARR Program Administration Guideline (NPS-37) and is also referenced in ยง 72.36. In accordance with section 1010 of the UPARR Act, no property improved or developed with UPARR assistance shall, without the approval of NPS, be converted to other than public recreation uses. A conversion will only be approved if it is found to be in accord with the current local park and recreation Recovery Action Program and/or equivalent recreation plans and only upon such conditions as deemed necessary to assure the provision of adequate recreation properties and opportunities of reasonably equivalent location and usefulness. Section 1010 is designed to ensure that areas or facilities receiving UPARR grant assistance are continually maintained in recreation use and available to the general public.
