
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Subpart E - Post-Completion Compliance Responsibilities
##### ยง 72.72 Conversion requirements.
###### Prerequisites for conversion approval.

(b)Requests for permission to convert UPARR assisted properties in whole or in part to other than public recreation uses must be submitted by the recipient to the appropriate NPS Regional Director in writing. NPS will only consider conversion requests if the following prerequisites have been met:

(1) All practical alternatives to the proposed conversion have been evaluated.

(2) The proposed conversion and substitution are in accord with the current Recovery Action Program and/or equivalent recreation plans.

(3) The proposal assures the provision of adequate recreation properties and opportunities of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location. Dependent upon the situation and at the discretion of NPS, the replacement property need not provide identical recreation experiences or be located at the same site, provided it is in a reasonably equivalent location. It must, however, be administered by the same political jurisdiction as the converted property. Equivalent usefulness and location will be determined based on the following criteria:

(i) Property to be converted must be evaluated in order to determine what recreation needs are being fulfilled by the facilities which exist and the types of recreation resources and opportunities available. The property being proposed for substitution must then be evaluated in a similar manner to determine if it will meet recreation needs which are at least like in magnitude and impact to the user community as the converted site.

(ii) Replacement property need not necessarily be directly adjacent to or close by the converted site. This policy provides the administrative flexibility to determine location recognizing that the property should meet existing public recreation needs. While generally this will involve the selection of a site serving the same community(ies) or area as the converted site, there may be exceptions. For example, if property being converted is in an area undergoing major demographic change and the area has no existing or anticipated future need for recreation facilities, then the project sponsor should seek to locate the substitute area in another location within the jurisdiction.

(4) In the case of assisted sites which are partially rather than wholly converted, the impact of the converted portion on the remainder shall be considered. If such a conversion is approved, the unconverted area must remain recreationally viable or be replaced as well.

(5) The guidelines for environmental evaluation have been satisfactorily completed and considered by NPS during its review of the proposed 1010 action. In cases where the proposed conversion arises from another Federal action, final review of the proposal shall not occur until NPS is assured that all environmental review requirements related to that other action have been met.

(6) State intergovernmental clearinghouse review procedures have been adhered to if the proposed conversion and substitution constitute significant changes to the original grant.
