
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 5 - COMMERCIAL AND PRIVATE OPERATIONS
#### ยง 5.4 Commercial passenger-carrying motor vehicles.
##### Provided,

(2) Transportation is commercial if payment therefor is made directly or indirectly to the operator:That bona fide sharing of actual expenses will not be deemed a payment.

(3) Transportation by a motor vehicle licensed as a commercial vehicle, or of commercial type, will be presumed to be commercial unless otherwise established to the satisfaction of the Superintendent or his authorized representative.

(4) Transportation will not be deemed commercial for the sole reason that the motor vehicle is chartered or rented in good faith to the operator, by the owner, for general use at a charge based upon time or mileage or both. Nothing in this section is intended to prohibit the operation of pleasure type automobiles rented without a driver on the normal terms from the owner.

(5) Subject to the provision of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, transportation is not commercial if it is a part of a trip or tour initiated, organized, and directed by an established bona fide school or college, institution, society or other organization, as a nonprofit activity of such organization, and if all passengers are students, faculty, members, or employees of such organization, or otherwise connected therewith, provided that credentials are presented at the park entrance from the head of such institution or organization indicating the trip is in accordance with the provisions stipulated herein. Clubs or associations having as a principal purpose the arranging of tours, trips, or transportation for their members will not qualify for admission into the above-named parks under the provision of this paragraph.

(6) As used in this section, "owner" means the person or organization having legal title, or all the incidents of ownership other than legal title, of a motor vehicle by which passengers may be transported, and includes a registered owner or a purchaser under a conditional sales contract. "Operator" means the person, organization, or group that arranges for the transportation, assumes responsibility for financial risk and management, and determines who shall be transported upon what terms, conditions, or charges. The operator may be the owner, but need not be.

(b) Passenger-carrying motor vehicles, otherwise admissible, that are so large as to require special escort in order to proceed safely over park roads, or which in the judgment of the Superintendent are beyond the carrying capacity or safety factor of the roads, will not be permitted in the parks, except that, where they may satisfactorily enter and travel to park headquarters they may be parked there during the period of stay.
