
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Appendix A to Part 72 - Criteria for Eligibility

Jurisdictions were considered for eligibility if they were functioning general purpose local governments in one of three categories:

1. Central cities of Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas in either 1970 or 1976 (1970 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of Population: 1970, 1976 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, 1976 Revenue Sharing Estimates File).

2. Cities and townships with Populations of 40,000 or more in either 1970 or 1976 (1970 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of Population: 1970, 1976 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, 1976 Revenue Sharing Estimates File).

3. Counties with populations of 250,000 or more in either 1970 or 1976 (1970 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of Population: 1970; 1976 data derived from 1976 Revenue Sharing Estimates File).

Indicators (variables) of distress and need were selected to determine eligibility for the program and were chosen for timeliness, reliability, and relevance to the Act. Certain variables were not used due to duplication, others because they were not available for all jurisdictions, and some because they were unrelated to the purposes of the Act. (Section 1002 of the Act states that the Congress finds that (a) the quality of life in urban areas is closely related to the availability of fully functional park and recreation systems including land, facilities, and service programs; (b) residents of cities need close-to-home recreational opportunities that are adequate to specialized urban demands, with parks and facilities properly located, developed, and well maintained; (c) the greatest recreational deficiencies with respect to land, facilities, and programs are found in many large cities, especially at the neighborhood level; (d) inadequate financing of urban recreation programs due to fiscal difficulties in many large cities has led to the deterioration of facilities, nonavailability of recreation services, and an inability to adapt recreational programs to changing circumstances; and (e) there is no existing Federal assistance program which fully addresses the needs for physical rehabilitation and revitalization of these park and recreation systems.)

The National Park Service asked the Bureau of the Census to assist in the analysis of national data in order to ensure that reliable, timely and applicable indicators of distress were used in determining eligibility for the program. NPS received comments from a number of interested individuals on what they considered, in their best judgment, to be the criteria that should be used in the program. NPS also received numerous position papers from national interest groups on what they thought were suitable indicators for the program. NPS then began a narrowing process intended to select the most appropriate criteria for eligibility in the program.

Listed below are the six variables selected for eligibility criteria:

This variable is commonly termed population density, and it is defined as the number of persons per square mile of land. It provides an indication of the extent to which an area is urbanized. Highly urbanized areas are most lacking in land set aside for recreation and park facilities and are experiencing difficulty in maintaining existing facilities. Highly dense areas tend to have the greatest need for assistance in revitalization of their neighborhood park and recreation facilities. Therefore, jurisdictions having high values for density would be favored by this variable, based on 1975 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

Per capita income is the estimated average amount of total money income per person. It is derived by dividing the total income of a particular group by the total population in that group. Comparison of change in per capita income between urban jurisdictions provides an indication of each jurisdiction's economic growth. If the income of a city is growing more slowly than another city, the city with slower growth is in a relatively weaker economic position. As cited in the "Report on the Fiscal Impact of the Economic Stimulus Package on 48 Large Urban Governments (1978)," income growth is a determinant of taxable wealth and level of economic activity, and indicates a jurisdiction's capability to finance its own recreation and other projects. This measure of financial capacity is related to the Act which stipulates that the Secretary of the Interior consider factors related to economic distress. Therefore, jurisdictions with either negative or low relative growth in per capita income would be favored by this variable, based on 1976 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
