
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 72 - URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978
#### Appendix A to Part 72 - Criteria for Eligibility
##### National Urban Recreation Study

Automobile availability, as defined by the Bureau of the Census, represents the number of passenger automobiles, including station wagons, which are owned or regularly used by any member of the household and which are ordinarily kept at home. Taxicabs, pickups, or larger trucks were not counted. Lack of automobile availability is closely related to lack of recreation opportunity. The Recreation Access Study (U.S. Department of Transportation, 1975) found that access to a diversity of recreation opportunities is generally assured for those who have automobiles and are willing to travel reasonable distances, but such opportunities are often severely limited for people without cars. In addition, the 17 field studies of theconcluded that most recreation opportunities for those without access to a personal auto is limited to immediate neighborhoods or place of residence. This variable is relevant to the Act in that the transportation disadvantaged households are the group that has the greatest need for expanded opportunities to enjoy their close to home resources.

Therefore, jurisdictions having a high proportion of households without automobiles would be favored by this variable, based on 1970 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

This variable identifies those persons most likely to be the most frequent users of public park and recreation facilities. While many senior citizens have adequate incomes, they tend to be considerably less affluent and less mobile than the general population. Younger and older children also need public recreation facilities, especially in highly urbanized areas, where recreation facilities are most lacking. This variable was selected to favor areas with greater concentrations of the dependent population where need for recreation would be the greatest, and where rehabilitation of existing facilities the most pressing, in accordance with the Act. The variable was used in its absolute rate to give an indication of the size of the client populations in each jurisdiction, based on 1970 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

In 1970, percent of population below poverty level was calculated by the Bureau of the Census as the proportion of the total population which reported income below the poverty level. This variable is the most current available indicator of poverty status for the jurisdictions in question. To accommodate the needs of economically disadvantaged people whose incomes are somewhat above the poverty level, such as those employed part-time, or those in very low-paid jobs, persons with incomes up to 125% of poverty are included in this variable. The poor and near-poor have the greatest need for public recreation opportunities and services in proximity to their homes. This variable is also related to that part of the Act which stipulates that the Secretary of the Interior consider "deficiencies in access to neighborhood recreation facilities, particularly for . . . low- and moderate-income residents," and the extent to which park and recreation recovery efforts would provide employment opportunities for low- and moderate-income residents. Rehabilitation of parks is a relatively labor intensive activity having the potential for providing short-term jobs with low-skill requirements. Persons with poverty level incomes tend to lack skills and jobs. Therefore, this variable was selected to favor jurisdictions having a large percentage of its population in poverty. The poverty level of income is based on an index developed by the Social Security Administration in 1964 and subsequently modified by a Federal Interagency Committee. In 1969, the poverty thresholds ranged from $1,487 for a female unrelated individual 65 years old and over living on a farm to $6,116 for a nonfarm family with a male head and with seven or more persons. The average poverty threshold for a nonfarm family of four headed by a male was $3,745.

The method used to combine the variables had four steps. First, all values for each of the six variables were expressed in common or standard units. Second, for each jurisdiction, the standardized values for the six variables were added to produce a score. Third, the scores were ranked from high values (most eligible) to low values (least eligible). Fourth jurisdictions having scores above the median score for all jurisdictions were designated "eligible."

The Administration stated before the Senate Subcommittee on Parks and Recreation on June 27, 1978, that it would ensure fair consideration of urban counties for eligibility under the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program. The Administration has kept this commitment by subjecting urban county data to the same eligibility standards as cities and including urban counties which meet those standards on the eligibility list. All urban counties with a population over 250,000 were considered under the same criteria (indicators of distress and need) as the city counterparts. Counties within and SMSA not on the eligibility list may compete for assistance as discretionary applicants.

The history of the Administration's UPARR proposal clearly indicates that this program is part of an overall national urban policy. Therefore, in accordance with the legislative mandate, project selection criteria will require that county projects be justified in terms of direct service to identifiable urban neighborhoods (residential areas), and that there must be evidence of cooperation between a county and its major city.

Section 1005(b) of the Bill states that at the Secretary's discretion, up to 15 percent of the program funds annually may be granted to local governments which do not meet eligibility criteria, but are located in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas, provided that these grants to general purpose governments are in accord with the intent of the program. These governments may apply for grants under the program regardless of whether or not they are included on the list of eligible jurisdictions.
