
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 79 - CURATION OF FEDERALLY OWNED OR ADMINISTERED ARCHEOLOGICAL COLLECTIONS
#### Subpart B - Archeological Collections Management
##### ยง 79.7 Methods to fund curatorial services.
###### aa-mm

(c) Federal agencies may deposit collections in a repository that agrees to provide curatorial services at no cost to the U.S. Government. This generally occurs when a collection is excavated or removed from public or Indian lands under a research permit issued pursuant to the Antiquities Act (16 U.S.C. 431-433) or the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470). A repository also may agree to provide curatorial services as a public service or as a means of ensuring direct access to a collection for long-term study and use. Federal agencies should ensure that a repository that agrees to provide curatorial services at no cost to the U.S. Government has sufficient financial resources to support its operations and any needed improvements.

(d) Funds provided to a repository for curatorial services should include costs for initially processing, cataloging and accessioning the collection as well as costs for storing, inspecting, inventorying, maintaining, and conserving the collection on a long-term basis.

(1) Funds to initially process, catalog and accession a collection to be generated during identification and evaluation surveys should be included in project planning budgets.

(2) Funds to initially process, catalog and accession a collection to be generated during data recovery operations should be included in project mitigation budgets.

(3) Funds to store, inspect, inventory, maintain and conserve a collection on a long-term basis should be included in annual operating budgets.
