
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 79 - CURATION OF FEDERALLY OWNED OR ADMINISTERED ARCHEOLOGICAL COLLECTIONS
#### Subpart C - Public Access to and Use of Collections
##### ยง 79.10 Use of collections.
###### Scientific and educational uses.

(b)A collection shall be made available to qualified professionals for study, loan and use for such purposes as in-house and traveling exhibits, teaching, public interpretation, scientific analysis and scholarly research. Qualified professionals would include, but not be limited to, curators, conservators, collection managers, exhibitors, researchers, scholars, archeological contractors and educators. Students may use a collection when under the direction of a qualified professional. Any resulting exhibits and publications shall acknowledge the repository as the curatorial facility and the Federal agency as the owner or administrator, as appropriate. When the collection is from Indian lands and the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands wish to be identified, those individuals and the Indian tribe shall also be acknowledged. Copies of any resulting publications shall be provided to the Repository Official and the Federal Agency Official. When Indian lands are involved, copies of such publications shall also be provided to the Tribal Official and the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer, if any, of the Indian tribe that owns or has jurisdiction over such lands.
