
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 79 - CURATION OF FEDERALLY OWNED OR ADMINISTERED ARCHEOLOGICAL COLLECTIONS
#### Subpart E - Disposition of Particular Material Remains
##### § 79.15 Final determination of disposition of particular material remains.
###### e.g.,

(5) Universities, museums, scientific institutions, and educational institutions with which the agency has an existing relationship pursuant to a written instrument (permit, agreement) for research, excavation, curation, education, or other partnership in the state and region from which the material remains to be disposed of were recovered.

(6) Indian tribes that consider the land to have religious or cultural importance, if the material remains are from a site on public lands that has religious or cultural importance to Indian tribes under 43 CFR 7.7(b)(1).

(7) Indian tribes from whose aboriginal lands the material remains were removed, if aboriginal occupation has been documented by a final judgment of the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Claims, treaty, Act of Congress, or Executive Order.

(i) The Federal Agency Official must, after the comment period described in paragraph (h) of this section has expired and the Federal Agency Official has responded to all relevant, substantive comments received, publish a notice of determination of disposition in the.

(1) The notice published in themust include the following:

(i) A general description of the material remains to be disposed.

(ii) The criteria used to determine that the material remains are of insufficient archeological interest under § 79.12(e).

(iii) The method of disposal.

(iv) The name of the Federal Agency Official or their designee as a point of contact.

(v) An explanation of a person's right to object to the determination of disposition under § 79.16 and the name, email, and physical address of the Departmental Consulting Archeologist.

(2) The Federal Agency Official must also prepare a determination of disposition that includes the following:

(i) A detailed list of the material remains to be disposed, including a description of each object, or lot of objects if there are multiples of a particular type, and photograph(s) of the objects when appropriate.

(ii) The report of the collections advisory committee as stipulated in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(iii) Documentation that all of the procedures in § 79.15 have been met.

(iv) The name of the recipient entity or method of disposal, as appropriate.

(v) Justification of the method to be used to dispose of the material remains under § 79.13.

(vi) The name of the Federal Agency Official or their designee as a point of contact.

(vii) Other conditions of transfer or conveyance, as appropriate.

(viii) A statement that the determination is a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704) unless an objection is filed in accordance with § 79.16.
