
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 79 - CURATION OF FEDERALLY OWNED OR ADMINISTERED ARCHEOLOGICAL COLLECTIONS
#### Subpart E - Disposition of Particular Material Remains
##### ยง 79.16 Objecting to a determination of disposition of particular material remains.

Anyone may object to and request in writing that the Departmental Consulting Archeologist review a Federal Agency Official's determination to dispose of material remains within 60 days of publication of the notice of determination of disposition in theThe objection must document why the objector disagrees with the Federal Agency Official's decision regarding the disposal. The procedure for objecting to a determination of disposition is as follows:

(a) The objection must be sent to the Departmental Consulting Archeologist. The Departmental Consulting Archeologist must forward a copy of the objection within 5 days of receipt to the Federal Agency Official who made the determination under objection. The Federal Agency Official must halt the planned disposition until the Departmental Consulting Archeologist completes the requested review.

(b) The Departmental Consulting Archeologist must review the objection, and the Federal Agency Official's determination of disposition in ยง 79.15(i)(2).

(c) The Departmental Consulting Archeologist must consult with the objecting party or parties and the Federal Agency Official with the aim of resolving the objection.

(d) Within 60 days of receipt of the objection, whether or not a formal resolution has been agreed upon, the Departmental Consulting Archeologist must transmit to the Federal Agency Official a non-binding recommendation, including a thorough explanation, for further consideration.

(e) The Federal Agency Official must consider the recommendation of the Departmental Consulting Archeologist prior to making a decision on the objection. Within 30 days of receipt of the recommendation, the Federal Agency Official must respond to the Departmental Consulting Archeologist and the objector with a decision on the objection and a justification for that decision. The decision document must include any information about administrative appeal rights required by internal agency appeal procedures or a statement that the decision document is a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act, as appropriate.

(f) The Federal Agency Official must publish notice of the decision on the objection and any amendments made to the determination of disposition in theThis may only be done after the objector exhausts any internal appeal procedures identified in the decision document sent to the objector under ยง 79.16(e). Publication of the notice of the decision on the objection constitutes a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704).
