
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 6 - SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES IN UNITS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 6.2 Applicability and scope.

(a) The regulations contained in this part apply to all lands and waters within the boundaries of all units of the National Park System, whether federally or nonfederally owned, and without regard to whether access to a solid waste disposal site requires crossing federally-owned or controlled lands or waters.

(b) The regulations contained in this part govern:

(1) The use of solid waste disposal sites not in operation on September 1, 1984, including the approval of new solid waste disposal sites;

(2) The continued use or closure of solid waste disposal sites that were in operation on September 1, 1984;

(3) The continued use or closure of solid waste disposal sites on lands or waters added to the National Park System after January 23, 1995.

(c) Exceptions.

(1) The regulations contained in this part do not govern the disposal of residential or agricultural solid wastes in a site by a person who can show that he or she:

(i) Resides within the boundaries of the unit;

(ii) Generates the residential or agricultural solid waste within the boundaries of the unit;

(iii) Disposes of the solid waste only on lands that the person owns or leases within the unit;

(iv) Does not engage in a solid waste disposal practice that poses a reasonable probability of adverse effects on health or the environment, as described by the criteria in 40 CFR part 257, Criteria For Classification Of Solid Waste Disposal Facilities and Practices found at 40 CFR 257.3-1 to 257.3-8; and

(v) Is not required to possess a State or local permit or license for the disposal of solid waste.

(2) The exemption in paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to agricultural solid waste consisting of a chemical used as a pesticide, an item used to apply, or a container used to store, a pesticide.

(3) Manure and crop residue returned to the soil as a fertilizer or soil conditioner are not solid wastes for purposes of this part, and do not require a request, environmental report, financial assurance or permit issued under this part.

(d) The conditions in ยง 6.4(a) govern the establishment of new, or the expansion of existing, solid waste disposal sites operated by the National Park Service. The conditions in ยง 6.5(c) govern the continued use of existing solid waste disposal sites operated by the National Park Service. However, the permit, financial assurance, administrative and penalty provisions of this part do not apply to any solid waste disposal site operated by the National Park Service.
