
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 200 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B - Functions and Procedures
##### ยง 200.12 Land status and title records.
###### Components.

(1)The system shall include, but is not limited to, the following components:

(i) A current and accurate Land Status Atlas for each National Forest, National Grassland, and other proclaimed or designated administrative unit, which shall graphically portray on maps keyed to a tabular summary the following categories of information:

(A) Jurisdiction of and condition of title to lands administered as part of the National Forest System.

(B) All encumbrances on National Forest System lands.

(C) All partial interests administered by the Forest Service on other lands.

(D) All use restrictions, withdrawals, and special designated areas on National Forest System lands.

(E) The acreage of National Forest System lands, including riparian lands.

(ii) A master Land Status File, from which the agency data for the Atlas is derived and which includes the following:

(A) Discrete title files of each landownership adjustment.

(B) The original authorizing documents establishing or adjusting National Forest System lands and interests therein.

(C) Withdrawals, use restrictions, and special designated areas on National Forest System lands.

(D) Other information as deemed necessary.

(iii) Such reporting systems as are needed to provide title or status reports.
