
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 212 - TRAVEL MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart A - Administration of the Forest Transportation System
##### ยง 212.8 Permission to cross lands and easements owned by the United States and administered by the Forest Service.
###### Provided,

(3) The Chief may grant to a State or local subdivision thereof; easements for roads over lands or easements administered by the Forest Service and over roads thereon, when the roads thereon or roads to be constructed thereon will serve said lands and are, or will become a part of the road system maintained by such State or local subdivision for general public use:That easements shall not be granted under authority of this act (78 Stat. 1089), 16 U.S.C. 533 which may be granted under the Highway Act (72 Stat. 916, 23 U.S.C. 317), as amended. The easements shall contain such provisions, terms, and conditions as the Chief may determine are necessary to retain and protect the interests needed by the United States.

(4) All instruments affecting permanent interests in land executed pursuant to this paragraph (d) of this section shall be recorded in each county where the lands are located. Copies of all instruments affecting interests in lands reserved from public domain shall be furnished by the Chief to the Secretary of the Interior.

(5)(i) The Chief may revoke any easement granted under the provisions of the Act of October 13, 1964 (78 Stat. 1089, 16 U.S.C. 534):

(A) By consent of the owner of the easement;

(B) By condemnation; or

(C) Upon abandonment after a 5-year period of nonuse by the owner of the easement.

(ii) Before any easement is revoked upon abandonment, the owner of the easement shall be given notice and, upon the owner's request made within 60 days after receipt of the notice, shall be given an appeal in accordance with the provisions of 36 CFR part 214.
