
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 218 - PROJECT-LEVEL PREDECISIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 218.10 Objections set aside from review.

(a) The reviewing officer must set aside and not review an objection when one or more of the following applies:

(1) Objections are not filed in a timely manner (see §§ 218.7(c)(2)(v) and 218.9).

(2) The proposed project is not subject to the objection procedures in §§ 218.1, 218.4, 218.20, and 218.31.

(3) The individual or entity did not submit timely and specific written comments regarding the proposed project or activity during scoping or another designated opportunity for public comment (see § 218.5(a)).

(4) Except for issues that arose after the opportunities for comment, none of the issues included in the objection are based on previously submitted specific written comments and the objector has not provided a statement demonstrating a connection between the comments and objection issues (see §§ 218.8(c) and 218.8(d)(6)).

(5) The objection does not provide sufficient information as required by § 218.8(d)(5) and (6) for the reviewing officer to review.

(6) The objector withdraws the objection.

(7) An objector's identity is not provided or cannot be determined from the signature (written or electronically scanned) and a reasonable means of contact is not provided (see § 218.8(d)(1) and (2)).

(8) The objection is illegible for any reason, including submissions in an electronic format different from that specified in the legal notice.

(9) The responsible official cancels the objection process underway to reinitiate the objection procedures at a later date or withdraw the proposed project or activity.

(b) The reviewing officer must give prompt written notice to the objector and the responsible official when an objection is set aside from review and must state the reasons for not reviewing the objection. If the objection is set aside from review for reasons of illegibility or lack of a means of contact, the reasons must be documented and a copy placed in the objection record.
