
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 218 - PROJECT-LEVEL PREDECISIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 218.16 Effective dates.
###### Effective dates for non-HFRA-authorized projects.

(b)(1) Project proposals with public scoping completed, but that have not had legal notice published. The applicable provisions of this part are in effect as of March 27, 2013 where public scoping was previously initiated for project proposals, but legal notice of the opportunity to comment has not yet been published; unless scoping or other public notification of the project (e.g. Schedule of Proposed Actions) has clearly indicated the project to be under the former 36 CFR part 215 appeal process.

(2) Project proposals which have legal notice published, but a Decision Notice or Record of Decision has not been signed. If a Decision Notice or Record of Decision is signed within 6 months of March 27, 2013, it will be subject to the 36 CFR part 215 appeal process. If the Decision Notice or Record of Decision is to be signed more than 6 months beyond March 27, 2013, the project proposal will be subject to the requirements of this part. In this case, the responsible official will notify all interested and affected parties who participated during scoping or provided specific written comment regarding the proposed project or activity during the comment period initiated with a legal notice that the project proposal will be subject to the predecisional objection regulations at 36 CFR part 218. All interested and affected parties who provided written comment as defined in ยง 218.2 during scoping or the comment period will be eligible to participate in the objection process.

(3) Project proposals are subject to the requirements of this part when initial public scoping, re-scoping with the public, or re-issuance of notice and comment begins on or after March 27, 2013.
