
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 218 - PROJECT-LEVEL PREDECISIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS
#### Subpart B - Provisions Specific to Project-Level Proposals Not Authorized Under Healthy Forests Restoration Act
##### ยง 218.24 Notification of opportunity to comment on proposed projects and activities.
###### Publication.

(c)(1) Through notice published annually in theeach Regional Forester shall advise the public of the newspaper(s) of record used for publishing legal notices required by this part.

(2) Legal notice of the opportunity to comment on a proposed project or activity shall be published in the applicable newspaper of record identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for each National Forest System unit. When the Chief is the responsible official, notice shall also be published in theThe publication date of the legal notice in the newspaper of record is the exclusive means for calculating the time to submit written comments on a proposed project or activity to be analyzed and documented in an EA. The publication date of the NOA in theis the exclusive means for calculating the time to submit written comments on a proposed project or activity that is analyzed and documented in a draft EIS.

(3) Within 4 calendar days of the date of publication of the legal notice in the newspaper of record or, when applicable, thea digital image of the legal notice orpublication, or the exact text of the notice, must be made available on the Web. Such postings must clearly indicate the date the notice was published in the newspaper of record orand the name of the publication.
