
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 6 - SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES IN UNITS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 6.10 Financial assurance.

(a) The Regional Director will not require a bond or security deposit for a solid waste disposal site for which the operator has established a bond under 40 CFR 258.74(b).

(b) The Regional Director will not require a bond or security deposit for a solid waste disposal site whose owner or operator is a State entity whose debts and liabilities are the debts and liabilities of a State.

(c) Upon approval of a request to operate a new, or continue an existing, solid waste disposal site, an operator who is not described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must file with the Regional Director a suitable performance bond with satisfactory surety, payable to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary's designee. The bond must be conditioned upon faithful compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and the permit requirements as approved. When bonds are to serve as security, an operator must provide a power of attorney to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The bond must be issued by a surety company listed and approved by the Department of the Treasury.

(d) In lieu of a performance bond, an operator may deposit with the Secretary or the Secretary's designee cash or negotiable bonds of the United States Government. The cash deposit or the market value of such securities must be at least equal to the required sum of the bond(s).

(e) The bond or security deposit will be established by the Regional Director in an amount equal to the estimated cost to accomplish all closure and post-closure care requirements as described in 40 CFR part 258, subpart F, but in no case less than $25,000.

(f) The responsibility and liability of the operator (and the surety, if any) under the bond or security deposit must continue until the Regional Director determines that closure and post- closure care have been completed in accordance with the permit requirements. No portion of the performance bond or security deposit may be released until such a determination has been made.

(g) Within 30 calendar days after the Regional Director determines that all closure and post-closure care requirements have been successfully completed according to the permit, the Regional Director will notify the operator (and the surety, if any) that liability under the bond or security deposit has been terminated and the bond or security deposit released.
