
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.3 Glacier National Park.
##### Eating, drinking, and lodging establishments.

(b)(1) No eating, drinking, or lodging establishment offering food, drink, or lodging for sale may be operated on any privately owned lands within Glacier National Park unless a permit for the operation thereof has first been obtained from the Superintendent.

(2) The Superintendent will issue a permit only after an inspection of the premises and a determination that the premises comply with the substantive requirements of State and county health and sanitary laws and ordinances and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto which would apply to the premises if the privately owned lands were not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(3) No fee will be charged for the issuance of such a permit.

(4) The Superintendent or his duly authorized representative shall have the right of inspection at all reasonable times for the purpose of ascertaining that the premises are being maintained and operated in compliance with State and county health laws and ordinances and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.

(5) Failure of the permittee to comply with all State and county substantive laws and ordinances, and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto applicable to the establishment for which a permit is issued, or failure to comply with any Federal law or any regulation promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior for governing the park, or with the conditions imposed by the permit, will be grounds for revocation of the permit.

(6) The applicant or permittee may appeal to the Regional Director, National Park Service, from any final action of the Superintendent, refusing, conditioning, or revoking a permit. Such an appeal, in writing, shall be filed within 30 days after receipt of notice by the applicant or permittee of the action appealed from. Any final decision of the Regional Director may be appealed to the Director, National Park Service, within 30 days after receipt of notice by the applicant or permittee of the Regional Director's decision. During the period in which an appeal is being considered by the Regional Director or the Director, the establishment for which a permit has been denied or revoked shall not be operated.

(7) The revocable permit for eating, drinking, and lodging establishments issued by the Superintendent shall contain general regulatory provisions as hereinafter set forth, and will include such reasonable special conditions relating to the health and safety of visitors both to the park and to the establishments as the Superintendent may deem necessary to cover existing local circumstances, and shall be in a form substantially as follows:
