
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.4 Grand Canyon National Park.
##### Immobilized and legally inoperative vehicles.

(c)(1) An immobilized vehicle is a motor vehicle which is not capable of moving under its own power due to equipment malfunction or deficiency. This term shall also include trailers whose wheels have been removed or which, for other reasons, cannot be immediately towed from their location, excluding trailers being used as residences which are occupying sites designated for this purpose by the Superintendent. A legally inoperative vehicle is a motor vehicle capable of movement under its own power, but not licensed to legally operate on roads.

(2) Leaving, storing, or placing upon federally owned lands within the park any immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle for a period exceeding 30 days is prohibited, except under the terms of a permit issued by the Superintendent.

(3) A revocable permit for an immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle may be issued without fee by the Superintendent for a specific period of time, upon a finding that the issuance of such a permit will not interfere with park management or impair park resources.

(i) Any permit issued will be valid for the period stated on the permit, unless otherwise revoked or terminated by the Superintendent, and will state the name and address of the owner, the description of the vehicle, and the exact location where it may be left, stored or placed.

(ii) The permittee will affix the permit securely and conspicuously to the vehicle.

(iii) The permit shall be nontransferable.

(iv) Any person issued a permit shall comply with all terms and conditions of the permit. Failure to do so will constitute cause for the Superintendent to terminate the permit at any time.

(v) A permit may be revoked at any time for the convenience of the National Park Service or upon a finding that continued authorization under the permit would interfere with park management or impair park resources.

(4) An immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle left in excess of 30 days without a permit will be removed at the owner's expense.

(5) An immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle constituting a safety hazard, causing an obstruction to roads or trails, or interfering with maintenance operations will be removed immediately at the owner's expense. Such interference or impairment may include, but shall not be limited to, the creation of a safety hazard, traffic congestion, visual pollution, or fuel and lubricant drip pollution.

(6) The Superintendent shall have the right of inspection at all reasonable times to ensure compliance with the requirements of this paragraph.
