
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 222 - RANGE MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart A - Grazing and Livestock Use on the National Forest System
##### ยง 222.4 Changes in grazing permits.

(a) The Chief, Forest Service, is authorized to cancel, modify, or suspend grazing and livestock use permits in whole or in part as follows:

(1) Cancel permits where lands grazed under the permit are to be devoted to another public purpose including disposal. In these cases, except in an emergency, no permit shall be cancelled without two years' prior notification.

(2) Cancel the permit in the event the permittee:

(i) Refuses to accept modification of the terms and conditions of an existing permit.

(ii) Refuses or fails to comply with eligibility or qualification requirements.

(iii) Waives his permit back to the United States.

(iv) Fails to restock the allotted range after full extent of approved personal convenience non-use has been exhausted.

(v) Fails to pay grazing fees within established time limits.

(3) Cancel or suspend the permit if the permittee fails to pay grazing fees within established time limit.

(4) Cancel or suspend the permit if the permittee does not comply with provisions and requirements in the grazing permit or the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture on which the permit is based.

(5) Cancel or suspend the permit if the permittee knowingly and willfully makes a false statement or representation in the grazing application or amendments thereto.

(6) Cancel or suspend the permit if the permit holder is convicted for failing to comply with Federal laws or regulations or State laws relating to protection of air, water, soil and vegetation, fish and wildlife, and other environmental values when exercising the grazing use authorized by the permit.

(7) Modify the terms and conditions of a permit to conform to current situations brought about by changes in law, regulation, executive order, development or revision of an allotment management plan, or other management needs.

(8) Modify the seasons of use, numbers, kind, and class of livestock allowed or the allotment to be used under the permit, because of resource condition, or permittee request. One year's notice will be given of such modification, except in cases of emergency.

(b) Association permits or grazing agreements may be canceled for noncompliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Department of Agriculture regulation promulgated thereunder.
