
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 222 - RANGE MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart D - Management of Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros
##### ยง 222.64 Use of helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft and motor vehicles.

The Chief, Forest Service, is authorized to use helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft, and motor vehicles in a manner that will ensure humane treatment of wild free-roaming horses and burros as provided by the following paragraphs:

(a) Prior to using helicopters in capture operations and/or using motor vehicles for the purpose of transporting captured animals, a public meeting will be held in the proximity of the territory where the capture operation is proposed.

(b) Helicopters may be used in all phases of the administration of the Act including, but not limited to, inventory, observation, surveillance, and capture operations. In capture operations, helicopters may be used to locate the animals involved to assist ground crews in moving the animals and for related purposes, such as, to transport personnel and equipment. The condition of the animals shall be continuously observed by the authorized officer and, should signs of harmful stress be noted, the source of stress shall be removed so as to allow recovery. Helicopters may be used in round-ups or other capture operations subject to the following procedures.

(1) Helicopters shall be used in such a manner that bands or herds will tend to remain together.

(2) Horses or burros will not be moved at a rate which exceeds limitations set by the authorized officer who shall consider terrain, weather, distance to be traveled, and condition of the animals.

(3) Helicopters shall be used to observe the presence of dangerous areas and may be used to move animals away from hazards during capture operations.

(4) During capture operations, animals shall be moved in such a way as to prevent harmful stress or injury.

(5) The authorized officer shall supervise all helicopter uses as follows:

(i) Have means to communicate with the pilot and be able to direct the use of the helicopter; and

(ii) Be able to observe effects of the use of the helicopters on the well-being of the animals.
