
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 222 - RANGE MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart D - Management of Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros
##### ยง 222.64 Use of helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft and motor vehicles.
###### et seq.

(c) Fixed-wing aircraft may be used for inventory, observation, and surveillance purposes necessary in administering the Act. Such use shall be consistent with the Act of September 8, 1959, as amended (18 U.S.C. 41). Fixed-wing aircraft shall not be used in connection with capture operations except as support vehicles.

(d) Motor vehicles may be used in the administration of the Act except that such vehicles shall not be used for driving or chasing wild horses or burros in capture operations. Motor vehicles may also be used for the purpose of transporting captured animals subject to the following humane procedures.

(1) Such transportation shall comply with appropriate State and Federal laws and regulations applicable to humane transportation of horses and burros.

(2) Vehicles shall be inspected by an authorized officer prior to use to ensure vehicles are in good repair and of adequate rate capacity.

(3) Vehicles shall be carefully operated to ensure that captured animals are transported without undue risk or injury.

(4) Where necessary and practical, animals shall be sorted as to age, temperament, sex, size, and condition so as to limit, to the extent possible, injury due to fighting and trampling.

(5) The authorizing officer shall consider the condition of the animals, weather conditions, type of vehicle, and distance to be traveled when planning for transportation of captured animals.

(6) Unless otherwise approved by the authorized officer, the transportation of wild free-roaming horses and burros shall be limited in sequence, to a maximum of 24 hours in transit followed by a minimum of 5 hours of on-the-ground rest with adequate feed and water.
