
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 223.14 Where timber may be cut.

(a) The cutting of trees, portions of trees or other forest products may be authorized on any National Forest System lands, except for:

(1) Timber reserved by a grantor of land, during the life of such reservation.

(2) Timber reserved from cutting under other regulations.

(3) Timber on unpatented mining claims located prior to July 23, 1955, unless the claimant has executed a waiver pursuant to section 6 of the Act of July 23, 1955 (69 Stat. 367), or unless pursuant to a proceeding under Section 5 of that Act, the claimant has failed to file a verified statement or has failed to establish the validity and effectiveness of his asserted rights.

(4) Timber on lands identified in land management plans as not suited for timber production, except that salvage sales or sales necessitated to protect other multiple-use values may be made.

(b) The cutting of timber on mining claims shall be conducted in such manner as not to endanger or materially interfere with prospecting, mining or processing operations.

(c) Timber on an unpatented claim to which the United States does not otherwise have disposal rights may be disposed of with the written consent of the claimant, or, in emergencies without the consent of the claimant.

(d) Timber on an unpatented claim may be cut by the claimant only for the actual development of the claim or for uses consistent with the purposes for which the claim was entered. Any severance or removal of timber, other than severance or removal to provide clearance, shall be in accordance with plan of operations required by Part 252 of this chapter, and with sound principles of forest management.

(e) With prior approval by the Regional Forester, timber on lands under option by the United States or on offered lands included in an approved land exchange agreement may be sold. Before the sale is made, a cooperative agreement must be made with the owner of the land authorizing the Forest Service to conduct the sale and providing for return of stumpage receipts to the owner if title to the land is not accepted by the United States.

(f) With prior approval by the Regional Forester, cutting of exchange timber described in ยง 223.4 may be authorized in advance of the acceptance of title to the non-Federal land offered in exchange.
