
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Contract Conditions and Provisions
###### § 223.50 Periodic payments.
####### A periodic payment determination date

(5)is a date specified in a timber sale contract upon which the Forest Service will compare the payments made by the timber sale purchaser for timber charges (stumpage), exclusive of required deposits, with the periodic payment amount required as of that date in the contract.

(b) Except for lump sum sales, each timber sale contract of more than one full normal operating season shall provide for periodic payments. The number of periodic payments required will be dependent upon the number of normal operating seasons within the contract, but shall not exceed two such payments during the course of the contract. Periodic payments must be made by the periodic payment determination date, except that the amount of the periodic payment shall be reduced to the extent that timber has been removed and paid for by the periodic payment determination date. Should the payment fall due on a date other than normal billing dates, the contract shall provide that the payment date will be extended to coincide with the next timber sale statement of account billing date.

(1) At a minimum, each such contract shall require an initial periodic payment at the midpoint between the specified road completion date and the termination date. If there is no road construction requirement, payment shall be due at the midpoint between award date and the termination date.

(2) Contracts exceeding 2 full operating seasons shall require an additional periodic payment to be due no later than the midpoint of the last normal operating season or 12 months from the initial periodic payment whichever date is first.

(3) Notwithstanding this paragraph (b), periodic payments are not required for stewardship contracts unless the contracting officer determines that periodic payments are needed to ensure the Government's financial security.

(c) Each timber sale contract shall require the initial periodic payment to equal 35 percent of the total contract value or 50 percent of the bid premium, whichever is greater. The amount of this periodic payment will be reduced if the payment would result in the purchaser's credit balance for timber charges exceeding the current contract value.

(d) Where an additional periodic payment is required by the timber sale contract, this payment will equal 75 percent of the total contract value. The amount of this periodic payment will be reduced if the payment would result in the purchaser's credit balance for timber charges exceeding the current contract value.

(e) Dates for determining future periodic payments shall be adjusted as follows:

(1) When contract term adjustments are granted under § 223.46,

(2) When market-related contract term additions are granted under § 223.52,

(3) When urgent removal extensions are granted under § 223.53, or

(4) When extensions in the substantial overriding public interest are granted under § 223.115(b). Periodic payment determination dates shall not be adjusted when a contract term extension is granted under the general authority of § 223.115(a).

(f) The amount of any periodic payment(s) not yet reached shall be revised when rates are redetermined under the contract. The revised periodic payment amounts shall be based on a recalculated total contract value using the same procedures described in (c) and (d) of this section. The recalculated total contract value is the current contract value following the rate redetermination plus:

(1) The total value of timber scaled prior to establishing redetermined rates in a scaled sale; or

(2) The total value of timber shown on the timber sale statement of account as having been cut, removed and paid for.
