
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Contract Conditions and Provisions
###### ยง 223.52 Market-related contract term additions.
####### Determination of drastic wood product price reductions.

(b)(1) The Forest Service shall monitor and use Producer Price Indices, as prepared by the Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), adjusted to a constant dollar base, to determine if market-related contract term additions are warranted.

(i) The Forest Service shall monitor and use only the following indices:

(ii) Preliminary index values will be revised when final index values become available, however, determination of a qualifying quarter will not be revised when final index values become available.

(2) For PPI index codes 0811 and 0812, the Chief of the Forest Service shall determine that a drastic reduction in wood prices has occurred when, for any 2 or more consecutive qualifying quarters, the applicable adjusted price index is less than 88.5 percent of the average of such index for the 4 highest of the 8 calendar quarters immediately prior to the qualifying quarter. A qualifying quarter is a quarter, following the contract award date, where the applicable adjusted index is more than 11.5 percent below the average of such index for the 4 highest of the previous 8 calendar quarters. For PPI index code 3211135, the Chief of the Forest Service shall determine that a drastic reduction in wood prices has occurred when, for any 2 or more consecutive qualifying quarters, the adjusted price index is less than 85 percent of the average of such index for the 4 highest of the 8 calendar quarters immediately prior to the qualifying quarter. A qualifying quarter is a quarter, following the contract award date, where the adjusted index is more than 15 percent below the average of such index for the 4 highest of the previous eight calendar quarters. Qualifying quarter determinations will be made using the Producer Price Indices for the months of March, June, September, and December.

(3) A determination, made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that a drastic reduction in wood product prices has occurred, shall constitute a finding that the substantial overriding public interest justifies the contract term addition.
