
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Contract Conditions and Provisions
###### ยง 223.52 Market-related contract term additions.
####### Granting market-related contract term additions.

(c)When the Chief of the Forest Service determines, pursuant to this section, that a drastic reduction in wood product prices has occurred, the Forest Service is to notify affected timber sale purchasers. For any contract which has been awarded and has not been terminated, the Forest Service, upon a purchaser's written request, will add 1 year to the contract's terms, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. This 1-year addition includes time outside of the normal operating season.

(1) Additional contract time may not be granted for those portions of the contract:

(i) With a required completion date;

(ii) Where the Forest Service determines that the timber is in need of urgent removal;

(iii) Where timber deterioration or resource damage may result from delay; or

(iv) Where included timber is designated by diameter and delay may change the treatment as a result of trees growing into or out of the specified diameter range(s).

(2) For each additional consecutive quarter in which a contract qualifies for market-related contract term addition, the Forest Service will, upon the purchaser's written request, add an additional 3 months during the normal operating season to the contract, except that no single 3-month addition shall extend the term of a contract by more than 1 year.

(3) No more than 3 years shall be added to a contract's term by market-related contract term addition unless the following conditions are met:

(i) The sale was awarded after December 31, 2006;

(ii) A drastic reduction in wood product prices occurred in at least ten of twelve consecutive quarters during the contract term, but not including the quarter in which the contract was awarded; and

(4) For each qualifying quarter meeting the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the Forest Service will, upon the purchaser's written request, add an additional 3 months during the normal operating season to the contract, except no single 3-month addition shall extend the term of a contract by more than 1 year.

(5) In no event shall a revised contract term exceed 10 years as a result of market-related contract term addition.
