
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Advertisement and Bids
###### ยง 223.82 Contents of advertisement.

(a) A timber sale advertisement shall include the following information:

(1) The location and estimated quantities of timber or other forest products offered for sale.

(2) The time and place at which sealed bids will be opened in public or at which sealed bids will be opened in public followed by an oral auction.

(3) A provision asserting the agency's right to reject any and all bids.

(4) The place where complete information on the offering may be obtained.

(5) Notice that a prospectus is available to the public and to interested potential bidders.

(b) For each timber sale which includes specified road construction with total estimated construction costs of $50,000 or more, the advertisement shall also include:

(1) The total estimated construction cost of the permanent roads.

(2) A statement extending to small business concerns qualified for preferential bidding on timber sales, under the Small Business Act, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder, the option to elect, when submitting a bid, to have all permanent roads constructed by the Forest Service.

(3) Notice that the prospectus referred to in paragraph (a)(5) of this section contains additional information concerning the options to have all permanent roads constructed by the Forest Service.

(c) When timber or other forest products are offered for preferential bidding in accordance with the Small Business Act, as amended, the advertisement shall state that the offering is set-aside for competitive bidding by small business concerns.
