
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Advertisement and Bids
###### ยง 223.83 Contents of prospectus.

(a) A timber sale prospectus shall specify, as a minimum:

(1) The minimum acceptable stumpage or other unit prices and the amount or rate of any additional required deposits.

(2) The amount of bid guarantee which must accompany each bid.

(3) The amount of cash deposit or down payment to be made promptly by the successful bidder.

(4) The location and area of the sale, including harvest acreage.

(5) The estimated volumes, quality, size or age class of timber.

(6) A description of special logging requirements for the sale.

(7) The status of marking at time of advertisement.

(8) The method of bidding which will be used.

(9) The contract form to be used.

(10) The estimated deposits for reforestation and stand improvement work.

(11) The contract termination date and normal operating period.

(12) The date and amount of periodic payments which are to be made.

(13) The discount of payment rates for early harvest, if appropriate.

(14) The amount of performance bond required.

(15) The road standards for specified roads to be constructed.

(16) The estimated road construction cost and the estimated public works construction cost.

(17) For deficit sales:

(i) An estimate of the difference between fair market value and advertised value, that is, the amount by which the advertised value exceeds the appraised value.

(ii) The amount of Forest Service funds or materials to be used to offset the deficit.

(18) Status of financial assistance available to small business purchasers.

(19) Notification of preferential award to small business firms and certification requirements for set-aside sales.

(20) Notification of log export and substitution restrictions.

(21) Notification of Equal Employment Opportunity compliance review requirements.

(22) General or special information concerning the sale which are deemed appropriate to furnish sufficient information to prospective purchasers to warrant further investigation.

(b) For each advertisement which extends to small concerns the option to have all permanent roads constructed by the Forest Service, the prospectus shall also include:

(1) The road standards applicable to construction of permanent roads or a reference to the source of such information.

(2) The date of final completion for all permanent roads.

(3) A statement explaining how the Forest Service intends to perform road construction by force account or contract, if the high bidder elects Forest Service construction.

(4) The maximum period for which timber sale contract award will be delayed while the Forest Service seeks a satisfactory construction bid. The period stated shall not exceed 120 days unless the Regional Forester approves a longer period.
