
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Advertisement and Bids
###### ยง 223.88 Bidding methods.

(a) Competitive sales of National Forest timber shall be offered through either sealed or oral auction bidding. The method chosen for each sale will:

(1) Insure open and fair competition,

(2) Insure that the Federal Government receives not less than fair market value for the public resource,

(3) Consider the economic stability of communities whose economies are dependent upon National Forest timber, and

(4) Be consistent with the objectives of the National Forest Management Act of 1976, as amended, and other Federal Statutes.

(b) As a prerequisite to participation in an oral auction, bidders shall submit a written sealed bid at least equal to the minimum acceptable bid prices specified in the prospectus. No price subsequently bid at oral auction shall be accepted if it is less than the written sealed bid.

(c) The Chief, Forest Service, shall specify the use of sealed bids or a mix of bidding methods in areas where he has reasonable belief that collusive bidding may be occurring or where he determines that less than normal competitive bidding is occurring.

(d) Sealed bids shall be used for sales within Federal Sustained Yield Units, except where the policy statement for the Unit restricts purchasers of timber within the Unit from buying National Forest timber outside the Unit and the Chief determines that oral bidding will protect individual communities within the Unit.

(e) The Chief, Forest Service, may authorize departures from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section when he determines that departures are necessary to protect the public interest.

(f) The Chief, Forest Service, may authorize the testing and evaluation of alternative bidding methods for National Forest timber.
