
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart B - Timber Sale Contracts
##### Contract Administration
###### ยง 223.116 Cancellation.

(a) Timber sale contracts and permits may be canceled:

(1) For serious or continued violation of their terms.

(2) Upon application, or with the consent of the purchaser, when such action is of advantage to the United States or not prejudicial to its interests.

(3) Upon application of the purchaser if the value of the timber remaining to be cut is diminished materially because of catastrophic damage caused by forces beyond the control of the purchaser resulting in (i) physical change in the sale area or access to it, or (ii) damage to timber remaining to be cut.

(4) For conviction of violation of criminal statutes or, following final agency or judicial determination, of violation of civil standards, orders, permits, or others regulations for the protection of environmental quality issued by a Federal agency, State agency, or political subdivision thereof, in the conduct of operations thereunder, on National Forest System land, unless compliance with such laws or regulations would preclude performance of other contractual requirements.

(5) Upon determination by the Chief, Forest Service, that operations thereunder would result in serious environmental degradation or resource damage and with reasonable compensation to the purchaser for unrecovered costs incurred under the contract and the difference between the current contract value and the average value of comparable National Forest timber sold during the preceding 6-month period.

(b) Cancellation will be by the Chief, Forest Service. Authority to cancel contracts under paragraph (a)(1) through (4) of this section may be delegated to Regional Foresters for sales within their authorization. All contract cancellations under paragraph (a)(5) of this section shall be by the Chief, Forest Service, whose decision shall be the final agency decision.
