
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.10 Zion National Park.
##### Snowmobiles.

(b)After consideration of snow and weather conditions, the superintendent may permit the use of snowmobiles on designated routes within the park. Snowmobile use is restricted to the established roadway. All off-road use is prohibited. The designated routes are defined as follows:

(1) All of the paved portion of the Kolob Terrace Road from the park boundary in the west one-half of Sec. 33, T. 40 S., R. 11 W., Salt Lake Base and Meridian, north to where this road leaves the park in the northwest corner of Sec. 16, T. 40 S., R. 11 W., SLBM. This paved portion of the Kolob Terrace Road is approximately three and one-half miles in length.

(2) All of the unplowed, paved portions of the Kolob Terrace Road from the park boundary, north of Spendlove Knoll, in Sec. 5, T. 40 S., R. 11 W., SLBM, north to where this road leaves the park in the southwest corner of Sec. 23, T. 39 S., R. 11 W., SLBM, a distance of approximately five miles.

(3) The unplowed, graded dirt road from the park boundary in the southeast corner of Sec. 13, T. 39 S., R. 11 W., SLBM, south to Lava Point Fire Lookout in the northwest quarter of Sec. 31, T. 39 S., R. 10 W., SLBM, a distance of approximately one mile.

(4) The unplowed, graded dirt road from the Lava Point Ranger Station, southeast to the West Rim Trailhead and then to a point where this road divides and leaves the park, in the southeast corner of Sec. 30, and the northeast corner of Sec. 31, T. 39 S., R. 10 W., SLBM, a distance of approximately two miles.

(5) The unplowed, graded dirt road from the Lava Point Ranger Station, north to the park boundary where this road leaves the park, all in the southeast corner of Sec. 13, T. 39 S., R. 11 W., SLBM, a distance of approximately one-fourth mile.
