
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart C - Suspension and Debarment of Timber Purchasers
##### § 223.139 Period of debarment.

(a) Debarment shall be for a period commensurate with the seriousness of the cause(s):

(1) The debarring official shall consider any suspension period or period since issuance of the notice of proposed debarment in determining the debarment period.

(2) Generally, a debarment for those causes listed at § 223.137 (a)-(f) of this subpart should not exceed three (3) years, except as otherwise provided by law.

(3) A debarment for the causes listed at § 223.137(g) shall not exceed five (5) years.

(b) The debarring official may extend the debarment for those causes listed at § 223.137 (a)-(f) of this subpart for an additional period if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the Government's interest. However:

(1) A debarment may not be extended solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based;

(2) If debarment for an additional period is necessary, the debarring official shall initiate and follow the procedures in § 223.138 to extend the debarment.

(c) The debarring official may consider terminating the debarment or reducing the period or extent of debarment, upon the purchaser's request, supported by documentation, for reasons such as:

(1) Newly discovered material evidence;

(2) Reversal of the conviction or judgment upon which the debarment was based;

(3) Bona fide change in ownership or management;

(4) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or

(5) Other reasons the debarring official deems appropriate.

(d) The debarring official shall make final disposition of a reconsideration request under paragraph (c) of this section in writing within 30 working days of receipt of the reconsideration request and supporting documentation, unless the debarring official extends this period for good cause. The notice of the decision shall set forth the reasons for granting or denying the request.
