
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart C - Suspension and Debarment of Timber Purchasers
##### ยง 223.143 Procedures for suspension.
###### Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts.

(4)(i) If the suspending official finds that there exists a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, respondent(s) shall be afforded an opportunity to appear with counsel, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any person the Forest Service presents, unless-

(A) The action is based on an indictment; or

(B) A determination is made, on the basis of Department of Justice advice, that the substantial interests of the Government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced.

(ii) If appropriate, the respondent may request a fact-finding conference on disputed material facts. Such a conference shall be held within 20 calendar days from the date the request is received unless mutually agreed otherwise. The fact-finding conference shall conform with the following requirements:

(A) At least 10 days before the fact-finding conference, the suspending official shall send the respondent a copy of all documents in the administrative record as of the date of transmittal and not objected to by the Department of Justice.

(B) At the conference, the respondent shall have the opportunity to appear with counsel, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any person the Forest Service presents.

(iii) A transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be prepared and made available at cost to the respondent upon request, unless the respondent and the Forest Service, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript.
