
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.12 Gulf Islands National Seashore.
##### Off-road operation of motor vehicles,Route designations.

(b)-(1)(i) The operation of motor vehicles, other than on established roads and parking areas, is limited to oversand routes designated by the Superintendent in accordance with ยง 4.10(b) of this chapter. Operation of vehicles on these routes will be subject to all provisions of parts 2 and 4 of this chapter, as well as the specific provisions of this paragraph (b).

(ii) Oversand routes may be designated by the Superintendent in the following locations:

(A) In the eastern portion of Perdido Key, from the easternmost extension of the paved road to the east end of the island, excluding the Perdido Key Historic District near the former site of Fort McRee.

(B) In the westernmost portion of Santa Rosa Island, from the vicinity of Fort Pickens to the west end of the island.

(iii) Oversand routes designated by the Superintendent will be shown on maps available at park headquarters and other park offices. Signs at the entrance to each route will designate the route as open to motor vehicles.

Routes will be marked as follows:

(A) On beach routes, travel is permitted only between the water's edge and a line of markers on the landward side of the beach.

(B) On inland routes, travel is permitted only in the lane designated by pairs of markers showing the sides of the route.
