
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.12 Gulf Islands National Seashore.
##### Permits.

(2)(i) The Superintendent is authorized to establish a system of special recreation permits for oversand vehicles and to establish special recreation permit fees for these permits, consistent with the conditions and criteria of 36 CFR part 71.

(ii) No motor vehicle shall be operated on a designated oversand route without a valid permit issued by the Superintendent.

(iii) Permits are not transferable to another motor vehicle or to another driver. The driver listed on the permit must be present in the vehicle at any time it is being operated on an oversand route. Permits are to be displayed as directed at the time of issuance.

(iv) No permit shall be valid for more than one year. Permits may be issued for lesser periods, as appropriate for the time of year at which a permit is issued or the length of time for which use is requested.

(v) For a permit to be issued, a motor vehicle must:

(A) Be capable of four-wheel drive operation.

(B) Meet the requirements of ยง 4.10(c)(3) of this chapter and conform to all applicable State laws regarding licensing, registration, inspection, insurance, and required equipment.

(C) Contain the following equipment to be carried at all times when the vehicle is being operated on an oversand route: shovel; tow rope, cable or chain; jack; and board or similar support for the jack.

(vi) No permit will be issued for a two-wheel drive motor vehicle, a motorcycle, an all-terrain vehicle, or any vehicle not meeting State requirements for on-road use.

(vii) In addition to any penalty required by ยง 1.3 of this chapter for a violation of regulations governing the use of motor vehicles on oversand routes, the Superintendent may revoke the permit of the person committing the violation or in whose vehicle the violation was committed. No person whose permit has been so revoked shall be issued a permit for a period of one year following revocation.
