
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart F - The Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 Program
##### ยง 223.187 Determinations of unprocessed timber.
###### All species except western red cedar.

(a)Unprocessed timber, as defined in ยง 223.186 of this Subpart, does not include timber processed into any one of the following:

(1) Lumber or construction timbers, except western red cedar, meeting current American Lumber Standards Grades or Pacific Lumber Inspection Bureau Export R or N list grades, sawn on 4 sides, not intended for remanufacture. To determine whether such lumber or construction timbers meet this grade and intended use standard, the shipper of record must have in its possession for each shipment or order, and available for inspection upon the request of the Forest Service:

(i) A legible copy of a lumber inspection certificate certified by a lumber inspection/grading organization generally recognized by the industry as setting a selling standard; and,

(ii) A statement by the manufacturer certifying under the penalties provided in section 492 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 620d) and the False Statements Act (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the products in the shipment or order are intended to be used as shipped, are manufactured into products, or processed into pulp, and are not to be manufactured into other products. The certification statements shall be made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The certification statements in paragraph (b) of this section are not required if the lumber or construction timbers described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or the pulpwood bolts described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section otherwise may be exported without regard to an intent to remanufacture or process into pulp. For instance, because the timber originates from private land from which timber may be exported.

(2) Lumber, construction timbers, or cants for remanufacture, except western red cedar, meeting current American Lumber Standards Grades or Pacific Lumber Inspection Bureau Export R or N list clear grades, sawn on 4 sides, not to exceed 12 inches (30.5 cm) thick. To determine whether such lumber, timbers, or cants meet this grading standard, the shipper of record must have in its possession for each shipment or order and available for inspection, upon the request of the Forest Service, a legible copy of a lumber inspection certificate certified by a lumber inspection/grading organization generally recognized by the industry as setting a selling standard.

(3) Lumber, construction timbers, or cants for remanufacture, except western red cedar, that do not meet the grades referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and are sawn on 4 sides, with wane less thanof any face, not exceeding 8inches (22.2 cm) thick.

(4) Chips, pulp, or pulp products.

(5) Veneer or plywood.

(6) Poles, posts, or piling cut or treated with preservatives for use as such.

(7) Shakes or shingles.

(8) Aspen or other pulpwood bolts, not exceeding 100 inches in length, exported for processing into pulp. Shippers of record of such pulpwood bolts must have in their possession, and available for inspection upon request of the Forest Service, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, a manufacturer's certificate that such bolts are intended for processing into pulp.

(9) Pulp logs or cull logs processed at domestic pulp mills, domestic chip plants, or other domestic operations for the purpose of conversion of logs into chips.
