
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### Commercial Vehicles.

(a)(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition of commercial vehicles set forth in ยง 5.6 of this chapter, commercial vehicles are allowed to operate on U.S. Highway 191 in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(2) The transporting on U.S. Highway 191 of any substance or combination of substances, including any hazardous substance, hazardous material, or hazardous waste as defined in 49 CFR 171.8 that requires placarding of the transport vehicle in accordance with 49 CFR 177.823 or any marine pollutant that requires marking as defined in 49 CFR Subtitle B, is prohibited; provided, however, that the superintendent may issue permits and establish terms and conditions for the transportation of hazardous materials on U.S. Highway 191 in emergencies or when such transportation is necessary for access to lands within or adjacent to the park area.

(3) The operator of a motor vehicle transporting any hazardous substance, hazardous material, hazardous waste, or marine pollutant in accordance with a permit issued under this section is not relieved in any manner from complying with all applicable regulations in 49 CFR Subtitle B, or with any other State or federal laws and regulations applicable to the transportation of any hazardous substance, hazardous material, hazardous waste, or marine pollutant.

(4) The superintendent may require a permit and establish terms and conditions for the operation of a commercial vehicle on any park road in accordance with ยง 1.6 of this chapter. The superintendent may charge a fee for permits in accordance with a fee schedule established annually.

(5) Operating without, or violating a term or condition of, a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited. In addition, violating a term or condition of a permit may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.

(b) Employee motor vehicle permits:

(1) A motor vehicle owned and/or operated by an employee of the U.S. Government, park concessioners and contractors, whether employed in a permanent or temporary capacity, shall be registered with the Superintendent and a permit authorizing the use of said vehicle in the park is required. This requirement also applies to members of an employee's family living in the park who own or operate a motor vehicle within the park. Such permit, issued free of charge, may be secured only when the vehicle operator can produce a valid certificate of registration, and has in his possession a valid operator's license. No motor vehicle may be operated on park roads unless properly registered.

(2) The permit is valid only for the calendar year of issue. Registry must be completed and permits secured by April 15 of each year or within one week after bringing a motor vehicle into the park, whichever date is later. The permit shall be affixed to the vehicle as designated by the Superintendent.

(c) [Reserved]
