
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart F - The Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 Program
##### ยง 223.190 Sourcing area application procedures.

(a) Subject to the restrictions described in ยง 223.189 of this subpart and, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a person who owns or operates a manufacturing facility and who exports unprocessed timber originating from private lands may apply for a sourcing area in accordance with the procedures of this section. However, an owner/operator of a manufacturing facility who exports unprocessed timber originating from Federal lands may not possess or acquire unprocessed timber originating from Federal lands unless the acquisition is within an approved sourcing area. A person who intends to acquire or become affiliated with a manufacturing facility that processes Federal timber and who is an exporter may apply for a sourcing area. Written proof of the intent to acquire or affiliate must be included in the sourcing area application, signed by the applicant and the person or, in the case of a corporation, the Chief Executive Officer, whose company the applicant intends to acquire or affiliate with. This certification must be on letterhead and must be notarized. A sourcing area application that the Secretary determines would be approved will be granted tentative approval pending final notification by the applicant of acquisition of or affiliation with the manufacturing facility. The tentative approval of the sourcing area will lapse unless the acquisition or affiliation occurs within 30 days of the tentative approval of the sourcing area. A sourcing area is not valid until final approval of the sourcing area. The direct substitution prohibition did not apply to a person who applied for a sourcing area on or before December 20, 1990. A request for modification of an existing sourcing area shall trigger a review pursuant to the procedures and restrictions in ยง 223.191(e).

(b) As provided in the Act, a person who has requested an exemption or waiver of the prohibition against export within the preceding 24-month period, pursuant to ยง 223.189 of this subpart, must have applied for the desired sourcing area on or before December 20, 1990.
