
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart F - The Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 Program
##### ยง 223.190 Sourcing area application procedures.
###### et seq.

(g) The sourcing area application and review process will be conducted pursuant to the Rules of Practice Governing the Adjudication of Sourcing Area Applications and Formal Review of Sourcing Areas Pursuant to the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620,), found at 7 CFR part 1, subpart M.

(h) A final decision on a sourcing area application or a formal sourcing area review will be issued within four (4) months of the receipt of the application or initiation of the review.

(i) The following criteria must be met for sourcing area approval:

(1) The Administrative Law Judge, or, on appeal, the Judicial Officer must find that the proposed sourcing area is geographically and economically separate from any area that the applicant harvests or expects to harvest for export any unprocessed timber originating from private lands. In making such a finding, the Administrative Law Judge, or, on appeal, the Judicial Officer shall consider the timber purchasing patterns of the applicant on private and Federal lands equally with those of other persons in the same local vicinity and the relative similarity of such purchasing patterns.

(2) The "same local vicinity" will normally be manufacturing facilities located within 30 miles of the community where the applicant's manufacturing facility is located, but may include more distant communities if manufacturing facilities in those communities depend on the same source of timber and have similar purchasing patterns.

(3) The relative similarity of purchasing patterns of other mills shall be determined by considering the location and similarity of unprocessed timber being acquired by those facilities.

(4) Lines defining the geographic area shall be based on major natural and cultural features, including, but not limited to, prominent ridge systems, main roads or highways, rivers, political subdivisions, and not characterized by random lines.
