
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart F - The Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 Program
##### ยง 223.191 Sourcing area disapproval and review procedures.
###### Review process and frequency.,et seq.

(e)(1) Approved sourcing areas shall be reviewed not less often than every five (5) years. A tentative date for a review shall be included in the Administrative Law Judge's, or, on appeal, the Judicial Officer's determination or stated in writing by the Regional Forester following the determination. At least 60 days prior to the tentative review date, the Regional Forester or other such reviewing official shall notify the person holding the sourcing area of the pending review, publish notice of such review in newspapers of general circulation within the sourcing area, and invite comments, to be received no later than 30 days from the date of the notice, from all interested persons, including the person holding the sourcing area. For 10 working days following the comment period, any person submitting a written comment and the person with the sourcing area may review the comments. If there is disagreement among the persons who submitted written comments regarding the proper sourcing area, the reviewing official shall convene an informal meeting convenient to the persons that all interested persons may attend. If an agreement cannot be reached among the persons, formal administrative adjudication shall occur. The Administrative Law Judge, or, on appeal, the Judicial Officer shall, on the record and after opportunity for a hearing, approve or disapprove the sourcing area being reviewed, pursuant to the Rules of Practice Governing the Adjudication of Sourcing Area Applications and Formal Review of Sourcing Areas Pursuant to the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620,), found at 7 CFR part 1, subpart M.

(2) Disapproved sourcing areas shall be reviewed using the process described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section upon resubmission of an application, provided the applicant has accepted the area the Secretary would have approved as a sourcing area pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(3) The Department reserves the right to schedule a review, at the request of the Forest Service or the person holding the sourcing area, at any time prior to the scheduled tentative review date, with 60 days notice.

(4) Sourcing areas being reviewed shall continue in full force and effect pending the final review determination.
