
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart F - The Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 Program
##### ยง 223.203 Indirect substitution exception for National Forest System timber from within Washington State.
###### Application, review and approval process.

(b)To obtain a share of the 50 million board feet exempted from the prohibition against indirect substitution in section 490(b) of the Act, a person must have submitted an application. Applications were required to include at least the following:

(1) The amount of volume exception being requested, in thousand board feet (MBF);

(2) A signed certification that reads as follows:

(3) The application listed under this section must have been signed by the person making such application or, in the case of a corporation, by its Chief Executive Officer. The application must have been on the company's letterhead and must have been notarized.

(4) The application made under this section must have been mailed to the Regional Forester in Portland, Oregon, no later than January 8, 1992. Applicants were notified of the approving official's decision by letter. If approved, the amount of the exception becomes effective upon publication in the

(5) Prospective applicants could review Department records upon request prior to the deadline for submitting applications. An applicant could voluntarily submit information documenting the amount of purchases of unprocessed timber originating from National Forest System lands within Washington State. The Department then determined which amount is higher, verified by either the Department's records or the applicant's records. The Department then determined the applicant's portion of the 50 million board feet by determining the lesser of the amount verified by the records or 15 million board feet. Applicants could submit the information documenting the amount of purchases in the following manner:

(i) Actual receipts for purchasing unprocessed timber from National Forest System lands within Washington State; or

(ii) A statement by a certified public accountant of:

(A) A summary by fiscal year for 1988, 1989 and 1990 of the applicant's acquisitions of timber originating from National Forest System lands in the State of Washington, listing total volume for each of the three fiscal years; and

(B) The average volume for the three fiscal years. The volumes to be reported were the harvest volumes, except in the case of open sales. Advertised volumes had to be reported for open sales.

(C) The certified public accountant must have certified to the following:

(D) The certified public accountant's statement and certification must have been on the accountant's company letterhead, must have been notarized, and must have accompanied the applicant's application.
