
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart I - Stewardship End Result Contracting Projects
##### ยง 223.303 Procurement of service contacts.

All contracts determined under ยง 223.301(b)(1) to be a contract for receipt of a service shall:

(a) Be administered under the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations including the regulations issued by the Department of Agriculture set forth in Chapter 4 of Title 48; and

(b) Provide for a fire liability provision. All contracts under this section shall contain a fire liability provision that is in substantially the same form as the fire liability provision contained in integrated resource timber contracts, as described in Forest Service contract numbered 2400-13, part H, section 4.

(c) Utilize the following provisions of subparts A and B of this part:

(1) Section 223.1 Authority to sell timber.

(2) Section 223.3 Sale of seized material.

(3) Section 223.14 Where timber may be cut.

(4) Section 223.30 Consistency with plans, environmental standards, and other management requirements.

(5) Section 223.34 Advance payment.

(6) Section 223.36 Volume determination.

(7) Section 223.37 Revegetation of temporary roads.

(8) Section 223.38 Standards for road design and construction.

(9) Section 223.40 Cancellation for environmental protection or inconsistency with plans.

(10) Section 223.48 Restrictions on export and substitution of unprocessed timber.

(11) Section 223.60 Determining fair market value.

(12) Section 223.61 Establishing minimum stumpage rates.

(13) Section 223.87 Requirements of bidders concerning exports.

(14) Section 223.113 Modification of contracts to prevent environmental damage or to conform to forest plans.

(d) Products may be valued on a per acre basis.

(e) Such other provisions as are necessary to carry out the provisions of section 604 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6591c).
