
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 223 - SALE AND DISPOSAL OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM TIMBER
#### Subpart I - Stewardship End Result Contracting Projects
##### ยง 223.304 Sale of property contracts.

All contracts determined under ยง 223.301(b) to be a contract for a sale of property shall:

(a) Utilize the provisions of subparts A and B of this part, except that the following provisions will not be applicable:

(1) Section 223.4 Exchange of trees or portions of trees.

(2) Section 223.31 Duration of contracts.

(3) Section 223.42 Transfer of effective purchaser credits.

(4) Section 223.43 Limit on amounts of transferred purchaser credits.

(5) Section 223.44 Collection rights on contracts involved in transfer of purchaser credit.

(6) Section 223.44 Collection rights on contracts involved in transfer of purchaser credit.

(7) Section 223.45 Definitions applicable to transfer of purchaser credit.

(8) Section 223.49 Downpayments. Paragraph (d).

(9) Section 223.62 Timber purchaser road construction credit.

(10) Section 223.65 Appraisal of timber for land exchange; right-of-way, or other authorized use.

(11) Section 223.80 When advertisement is required.

(12) Section 223.82 Contents of advertisement.

(13) Section 223.83 Contents of prospectus.

(14) Section 223.84 Small business bid form provisions on sales with specified road construction.

(15) Section 223.88 Bidding methods.

(16) Section 223.100 Award to highest bidder.

(17) Section 223.102 Procedure when sale is not awarded to highest bidder.

(18) Section 223.103 Award of small business set aside sales.

(19) Section 223.118 Appeal process for small business timber sale set-aside program share recomputation decisions.

(b) Include the following additional provisions:

(1) If determined by the Forest Service to be necessary to protect the interests of the United States, a performance and payment bond, as described on February 7, 2014, in section 28-103-2 and 28-103-3 of Part 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in an amount sufficient to protect the investment in receipts by the United States generated by the contractor from the estimated value of the forest products to be removed under the contract;

(2) Provide for a fire liability provision.

(3) Redetermination of stumpage rates and deposits: The cost of service work included in stewardship contracts will be evaluated along with stumpage values at the time of a rate determination in accordance with normal rate determination procedures.

(4) Products may be valued on a per acre basis.

(5) Such other provisions as are necessary to carry out the provisions of section 604 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6591c).
