
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 230 - STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart A - Community Forest and Open Space Conservation Program
##### § 230.3 Application process.
###### http://www.grants.gov

(a) The Forest Service will issue a national request for applications (RFA) for grants under the Community Forest Program. The RFA will be posted toas well as other venues. The RFA will include the following information:

(1) The process and timeline for submitting an application;

(2) Application requirements (§ 230.4);

(3) Review process and criteria that will be used by the Forest Service (§ 230.5); and

(4) Additional information as the Forest Service determines appropriate.

(b) Pursuant to the RFA, interested eligible entities will submit an application for program participation to:

(1) The State Forester or equivalent official, for local governments and qualified nonprofit organizations; or

(2) The equivalent officials of the Indian Tribe, for applications submitted by an Indian Tribe.

(c) Interested eligible entities will also notify the Forest Service, pursuant to the RFA, when submitting an application to the State Forester or equivalent officials of the Indian Tribe.

(d) The State Forester or equivalent official of the Indian Tribe will forward all applications to the Forest Service and, as time and resources allow, provide a review of each application to help the Forest Service determine:

(1) That the applicant is an eligible entity;

(2) That the land is eligible;

(3) That the proposed project has not been submitted for funding consideration under the Forest Legacy Program; and

(4) Whether the project contributes to a landscape conservation initiative.

(e) If an applicant seeks technical assistance from the State Forester, nontribal applicants should contact the State Forester to discuss what technical assistance is needed and confirm that the State Forester is willing to provide that assistance. Tribal applicants should work with their equivalent officials (§ 230.2) to discuss and arrange similar technical assistance needs. Applicants must include a separate budget that outlines the financial needs associated with technical assistance activities (§ 230.10).

(f) A proposed application cannot be submitted for funding consideration simultaneously for both the Community Forest Program and the Forest Service's Forest Legacy Program (16 U.S.C. 2103c).
