
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 230 - STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart A - Community Forest and Open Space Conservation Program
##### ยง 230.9 Ownership and use requirements.

(a) Grant recipients shall submit a final Community Forest Plan for Forest Service review within 120 days of the land acquisition and update the plan periodically to guide the management and use of the community forest.

(b) Grantees are encouraged to work with their State Forester or equivalent official of their Indian Tribe for technical assistance when developing or updating the Community Forest Plan. In addition, eligible entities are encouraged to work with technical specialists such as professional foresters, recreation specialists, wildlife biologists, and outdoor education specialists when developing Community Forest Plans.

(c) Grant recipients shall provide public access in accordance with the Community Forest Plan.

(d) Recipients must manage the property in a manner consistent with the purposes of the Community Forest Program. In the event that a grant recipient sells or converts a parcel of land acquired under the Community Forest Program to nonforest uses or any use inconsistent with the purposes of the Community Forest Program, the grant recipient shall:

(1) Pay the United States an amount equal to the current sale price or the current appraised value of the parcel, whichever is greater. For the purposes of the calculation in this paragraph (d)(1), the parcel's appraised value will be the parcel's full fair market value. The impact of subsequent encumbrances, such as the imposition of conservation easements consistent with the purposes of the Community Forest Program, will not be considered in appraising the parcel's fair market value; and

(2) Not be eligible for additional grants under the Community Forest Program.

(e) For Indian Tribes, land acquired using a grant provided under the Community Forest Program must not be sold, converted to nonforest uses or a use inconsistent with the purpose of the Community Forest Program, or converted to land held in trust by the United States on behalf of any Indian Tribe.

(f) Every five years, grant recipients shall submit a self-certifying statement to the regional Forest Service Program Manager confirming that the property has not been sold or converted to nonforest uses or a use inconsistent with the purpose of the Community Forest Program.

(g) Grant recipients are subject to periodic spot checks conducted by the Forest Service to verify that property acquired under the Community Forest Program has not been sold or converted to nonforest uses or any use inconsistent with the purpose of the Community Forest Program and that the current Community Forest Plan complies with defined minimum requirements in ยง 230.2.
