
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 230 - STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart B - Urban and Community Forestry Assistance Program
##### ยง 230.21 Implementation of the program.

(a) The Urban and Community Forestry Assistance Program is implemented through the Forest Service Grants, Cooperative Agreements, and Other Agreements Program (FSM 1580) and the Grants, Cooperative Agreements, and Other Agreements Handbook (FSH 1509.11). The Forest Service Manual and Handbook are available from the Forest Service internet homepage or at National Forest offices.

(b) The Forest Service, under the authority of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 and through the Urban and Community Forestry Assistance Program, coordinates financial, technical, and related assistance with the Natural Resources Conservation Service for the Urban Resources Partnership initiative. The Natural Resources Conservation Service provides similar assistance through the Urban Resources Partnership initiative under the authority of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f). The Urban Resources Partnership is an initiative in which Federal agencies, in cooperation with State and local agencies, community groups, and non-governmental organizations endeavor to be more effective, responsive, and efficient in working together to protect, improve, and rehabilitate the environment in urban areas of the Nation. The Forest Service and Natural Resources Conservation Service implement the Urban Resources Partnership initiative under the "Urban Resources Partnership National Guidance for U.S. Department of Agriculture Personnel" and applicable agency and departmental procedures for Federal grants and cooperative agreements. Copies of the Guidance may be obtained from the Cooperative Forestry Staff, Forest Service, USDA, P.O. Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090-6090.
