
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 241 - FISH AND WILDLIFE
#### Subpart B - Conservation of Fish, Wildlife, and Their Habitat, Chugach National Forest, Alaska
##### ยง 241.22 Consistency determinations.

(a) Subject to valid existing rights, a multiple-use activity may be permitted or authorized within the areas of the Chugach National Forest subject to this subpart only after a determination by the responsible Forest Officer that such activity is consistent with the conservation of fish, wildlife, and their habitat. A use or activity may be determined to be consistent if it will not materially interfere with or detract from the conservation of fish, wildlife and their habitat.

(b) Where an evaluation is made pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321) for a proposed multiple-use activity, and the responsible Forest Officer prepares an environmental impact statement (EIS) or environmental assessment (EA) or categorically excludes an activity from documentation in an EA or EIS, the consistency determination required by this section for the use or activity shall be included as a part of the decision document.

(c) Guidelines that are consistent with this section may be developed for specific multiple-use activities as a part of the planning and implementation process required by the National Forest Management Act and the implementing regulations at 36 CFR part 219, National Forest System Land and Resource Management Planning.

(d) Subject to valid existing rights, the responsible Forest Officer may incorporate into any permit or other authorization issued pursuant to 36 CFR part 251 or other regulations of this chapter any reasonably practicable measures that are determined to be necessary to maintain consistency with the conservation of fish, wildlife, and their habitat as provided by this subpart.

(e) Subject to valid existing rights, the responsible Forest Officer may revoke, suspend, restrict, or require modification of any activity if it is determined that such measures are required to conserve wildlife, fish, or their habitat within areas of the Chugach National Forest subject to this subpart. Prior to taking action to revoke, suspend, restrict, or require modification of an activity under this section, the responsible Forest Officer shall give affected parties reasonable prior notice and an opportunity to comment, unless it is determined that doing so would likely result in irreparable harm to conservation of fish, wildlife, and their habitat.

(f) Decisions made pursuant to this section are subject to appeal only as provided in 36 CFR part 214.

(g) Nothing in this section affects subsistence activities carried out in accordance with ยง 241.23 of this subpart or other applicable law.
