
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### When may I operate a snowcoach in Yellowstone National Park?

(4)(i) A snowcoach may be operated in Yellowstone National Park only under a concessions contract or commercial use authorization each winter season. Snowcoach operation is subject to the conditions stated in the concessions contract or commercial use authorization and all other conditions identified in this section. The Superintendent may establish additional operating conditions, including performance-based emission standards for snowcoaches, after providing notice of those conditions in accordance with one or more methods listed in 36 CFR 1.7.

(ii) The requirements in paragraphs (l)(4)(iii) through (iv) of this section apply to:

(A) new snowcoaches put into service on or after December 15, 2014;

(B) snowcoaches used in lieu of snowmobile transportation events during the 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 winter seasons; and

(C) all existing snowcoaches as of December 15, 2016.

(iii) The following air emission requirements apply to snowcoaches:

(iv) A snowcoach may not exceed a sound level of 75 dB(A) when measured by operating the snowcoach at 25 mph, or at its maximum cruising speed if that is less than 25 mph, for the test cycle in accordance with the SAE J1161 test procedures.

(v) All emission-related exhaust components (as listed in the applicable portion of 40 CFR 86.004-25) must function properly. These emission-related components must be replaced with the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) component, if practicable. If OEM parts are not available, aftermarket parts may be used.

(vi) Operating a snowcoach with the original pollution control equipment disabled or modified is prohibited.

(vii) Before the start of a winter season, a snowcoach manufacturer or a commercial tour operator must demonstrate, by means acceptable to the Superintendent, that a snowcoach meets the air and sound emission standards. The NPS will test and certify snowcoaches for compliance with air and sound emission requirements at locations in the park. A snowcoach meeting the requirements for air and sound emissions may be operated in the park through the winter season that begins no more than 10 years from the engine manufacture date, or longer if the snowcoach is certified to meet performance-based emission standards established by the Superintendent under paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section.

(viii) Snowcoaches are subject to periodic and unannounced inspections to determine compliance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(4) of this section.

(ix) This paragraph (l)(4) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by affiliated persons.
