
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### What standards will the Superintendent use to approve snowmobile makes, models, and years of manufacture for use in the park?

(6)(i) Snowmobiles must meet the following air emission requirements:

(A) Through March 15, 2015, all snowmobiles must be certified under 40 CFR part 1051 to a Family Emission Limit no greater than 15 g/kW-hr for hydrocarbons and to a Family Emission Limit no greater than 120 g/kW-hr for carbon monoxide.

(B) As of December 15, 2015, all snowmobiles must be certified under 40 CFR part 1051 to a Family Emission Limit no greater than 15 g/kW-hr for hydrocarbons and to a Family Emission Limit no greater than 90 g/kW-hr for carbon monoxide.

(ii) Snowmobiles must meet the following sound emission requirements:

(A) Through March 15, 2015, snowmobiles must operate at or below 73 dB(A) as measured at full throttle according to SAE J192 test procedures (revised 1985). During this period, snowmobiles may be tested at any barometric pressure equal to or above 23.4 inches Hg uncorrected.

(B) As of December 15, 2015, snowmobiles must operate at or below 67 dB(A) as measured at cruising speed (approximately 35mph) in accordance with SAE J1161 test procedures. Sound emissions tests must be accomplished within the barometric pressure limits of the test procedure; there will be no allowance for elevation. A population of measurements for a snowmobile model may not exceed a mean output of 67 dB(A), and a single measurement may not exceed 69 dB(A). The Superintendent may revise these testing procedures based on new information or updates to the SAE J1161 testing procedures.

(iii) A snowmobile meeting the requirements for air and sound emissions may be operated in the park for a period not exceeding six years from the manufacturing date, or after the snowmobile has travelled 6,000 miles, whichever occurs later.

(iv) Operating a snowmobile that has been modified in a manner that may adversely affect air or sound emissions is prohibited.

(v) These air and sound emissions requirements do not apply to snowmobiles operated on the Cave Falls Road in the park.

(vi) Snowmobiles are subject to periodic and unannounced inspections to determine compliance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(6) of this section.

(vii) This paragraph (l)(6) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by affiliated persons.
