
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### Where may I operate a snowmobile in Yellowstone National Park?

(7)(i) You may operate an authorized snowmobile only upon designated oversnow routes established within the park in accordance with 36 CFR 2.18(c). The following oversnow routes are so designated:

(A) Entrance roads: from the parking lot at Upper Terrace Drive south of Mammoth Hot Springs to Norris Junction, from the park boundary at West Yellowstone to Madison Junction, from the South Entrance to West Thumb, and from the East Entrance to junction with the Grand Loop Road.

(B) Grand Loop Road segments: from Norris Junction to Madison Junction, from Madison Junction to West Thumb, from West Thumb to the junction with the East Entrance Road, from Norris Junction to Canyon Junction, and from Canyon Junction to the junction with the East Entrance Road.

(C) Side roads: South Canyon Rim Drive, Lake Butte Road, Firehole Canyon Drive, North Canyon Rim Drive, and Riverside Drive.

(D) Developed area roads in the areas of Madison Junction, Old Faithful, Grant Village, West Thumb, Lake, East Entrance, Fishing Bridge, Canyon, Indian Creek, and Norris.

(ii) The Superintendent may open or close these oversnow routes, or portions thereof, for snowmobile travel after taking into consideration the location of wintering wildlife, appropriate snow cover, public safety, avalanche conditions, resource protection, park operations, use patterns, and other factors. The Superintendent will provide public notice of any opening or closing by one or more of the methods listed in 36 CFR 1.7.

(iii) This paragraph (l)(7) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by affiliated persons.

(iv) Maps detailing the designated oversnow routes are available at Park Headquarters.
