
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### Are there limits upon the number of snowmobiles and snowcoaches permitted to operate in the park each day?

(10)As of December 15, 2014, the number of snowmobiles and snowcoaches permitted to operate in the park each day will be managed by transportation events, as follows:

(i) A transportation event consists of a group of no more than 10 snowmobiles (including the snowmobile operated by the guide) or 1 snowcoach (unless enhanced emission standards allow for 2).

(ii) No more than 110 transportation events may occur in Yellowstone National Park on any given day.

(iii) No more than 50 of the 110 transportation events allowed each day may be snowmobile transportation events.

(iv) Four of the 50 snowmobile transportation events allowed each day are reserved for non-commercially guided groups, with one such group allowed per entrance per day. The Superintendent may adjust or terminate the Non-commercially Guided Snowmobile Access Program, or redistribute non-commercially guided transportation events, based upon impacts to park resources, park operations, utilization rates, visitor experiences, or other factors, after providing public notice in accordance with one or more methods listed in 36 CFR 1.7.

(v) Transportation events allocated to commercial tour operators may be exchanged among commercial tour operators, but only for the same entrance or location.

(vi) Commercial tour operators may decide whether to use their daily allocations of transportation events for snowmobiles or snowcoaches, subject to the limits in this section.

(vii) Transportation events may not exceed the maximum number of oversnow vehicles allowed for each transportation event.

(viii) Snowmobile transportation events conducted by a commercial tour operator may not exceed an average of 7 snowmobiles, averaged over the winter season. However, snowmobile transportation events conducted by a commercial tour operator that consist entirely of snowmobiles meeting enhanced emission standards may not exceed an average of 8 snowmobiles, averaged over the winter season. For the 2014-2015 winter season only, snowmobile transportation events conducted by a commercial tour operator that consist of any snowmobile that does not meet the air emission requirements in paragraph (l)(6)(i)(B) of this section or the sound emission requirements in paragraph (l)(6)(ii)(B) of this section may not exceed an average of 7 snowmobiles, averaged daily.

(ix) Snowcoach transportation events that consist entirely of snowcoaches meeting enhanced emission standards may not exceed an average of 1.5 snowcoaches, averaged over the winter season.

(x) A commercial tour operator that is allocated a transportation event, but does not use it or exchange it can count that event as "0" against that commercial tour operator's daily and seasonal averages. A commercial tour operator that receives a transportation event from another concessioner, but does not use it, may also count that event as "0" against its daily and seasonal averages.

(xi) Up to 50 snowmobiles may enter Cave Falls Road each day.

(xii) Daily allocations and entrance distributions for transportation events are listed in the following table:

(xiii) The Superintendent may decrease the maximum number of transportation events allowed in the park each day, or make limited changes to the transportation events allocated to each entrance, after taking into consideration the location of wintering wildlife, appropriate snow cover, public safety, avalanche conditions, park operations, utilization rates, visitor experiences, or other factors. The Superintendent will provide public notice of changes by one or more of the methods listed in 36 CFR 1.7.

(xiv) For the 2013-2014 winter season only, the number of snowmobiles and snowcoaches allowed to operate in the park each day is limited to a certain number per entrance or location as set forth in the following table. During this period, all snowmobiles operated by park visitors must be accompanied by a commercial guide. Snowmobile parties must travel in a group of no more than 11 snowmobiles, including the guide.

(xv) Paragraph (l)(10)(xiv) remains in effect until March 15, 2014.
