
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### How will the park monitor compliance with the required average and maximum size of transportation events?

(11)As of December 15, 2014:

(i) Each commercial tour operator must maintain accurate and complete records of the number of transportation events it has brought into the park on a daily basis.

(ii) The records kept by commercial tour operators under paragraph (l)(11)(i) of this section must be made available for inspection by the park upon request.

(iii) Each commercial tour operator must submit a monthly report to the park that includes the information below about snowmobile and snowcoach use. We may require the report to be submitted more frequently than monthly if it becomes necessary to more closely monitor activities to protect natural or cultural resources in the park.

(A) Average group size for allocated transportation events during the previous month and for the winter season to date. Any transportation events that have been exchanged among commercial tour operators must be noted and the receiving party must include these transportation events in its reports.

(B) For each transportation event; the departure date, the duration of the trip (in days), the event type (snowmobile or snowcoach), the number of snowmobiles or snowcoaches, the number of visitors and guides, the entrance used, route, and primary destinations, and if the transportation event allocation was from another commercial tour operator.

(iv) To qualify for the increased average size of snowmobile transportation events or increased maximum size of snowcoach transportation events, a commercial tour operator must:

(A) Demonstrate before the start of a winter season, by means acceptable to the Superintendent, that his or her snowmobiles or snowcoaches meet the enhanced emission standards; and

(B) Maintain separate records for snowmobiles and snowcoaches that meet enhanced emission standards and those that do not to allow the park to measure compliance with required average and maximum sizes of transportation events.
