
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.13 Yellowstone National Park.
##### What other conditions apply to the operation of oversnow vehicles?

(13)(i) The following are prohibited:

(A) Idling an oversnow vehicle for more than three minutes at any one time.

(B) Driving an oversnow vehicle while the driver's motor vehicle license or privilege is suspended or revoked.

(C) Allowing or permitting an unlicensed driver to operate an oversnow vehicle.

(D) Driving an oversnow vehicle with disregard for the safety of persons, property, or park resources, or otherwise in a reckless manner.

(E) Operating an oversnow vehicle without a lighted white headlamp and red taillight.

(F) Operating an oversnow vehicle that does not have brakes in good working order.

(G) The towing of persons on skis, sleds, or other sliding devices by oversnow vehicles, except for emergency situations.

(H) Racing snowmobiles, or operating a snowmobile in excess of 35 mph, or operating a snowmobile in excess of any lower speed limit in effect under ยง 4.21(a)(1) or (2) of this chapter or that has been otherwise designated.

(I) Operating a snowcoach in excess of 25 mph, or operating a snowcoach in excess of any lower speed limit in effect under ยง 4.21(a)(1) or (2) of this chapter or that has been otherwise designated.

(ii) The following are required:

(A) All oversnow vehicles that stop on designated routes must pull over to the far right and next to the snow berm. Pullouts must be used where available and accessible. Oversnow vehicles may not be stopped in a hazardous location or where the view might be obscured. Oversnow vehicles may not be operated so slowly as to interfere with the normal flow of traffic.

(B) Oversnow vehicle drivers must possess and carry at all times a valid government-issued motor vehicle driver's license. A learner's permit does not satisfy this requirement.

(C) Equipment sleds towed by a snowmobile must be pulled behind the snowmobile and fastened to the snowmobile with a rigid hitching mechanism.

(D) Snowmobiles must be properly registered in the U.S. State or Canadian Province of principal use and must display a valid registration.

(E) The only motor vehicles permitted on oversnow routes are oversnow vehicles.

(F) An oversnow vehicle that does not meet the definition of a snowcoach must comply with all requirements applicable to snowmobiles.

(iii) The Superintendent may impose other terms and conditions as necessary to protect park resources, visitors, or employees. The Superintendent will notify the public of any changes through one or more methods listed in ยง 1.7 of this chapter.

(iv) This paragraph (l)(13) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by affiliated persons.
