
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### § 242.25 Subsistence taking of fish, wildlife, and shellfish: general regulations.
###### Harvest limits.

(c)(1) Harvest limits authorized by this section and harvest limits established in State regulations may not be accumulated unless specified otherwise in §§ 242.26, 242.27. or 242.28.

(2) Fish, wildlife, or shellfish taken by a designated individual for another person pursuant to § 242.10(d)(5)(ii) counts toward the individual harvest limit of the person for whom the fish, wildlife, or shellfish is taken.

(3) A harvest limit may apply to the number of fish, wildlife, or shellfish that can be taken daily, seasonally and/or during a regulatory year or held in possession.

(4) Unless otherwise provided, any person who gives or receives fish, wildlife, or shellfish must furnish, upon a request made by a Federal or State agent, a signed statement describing the following: Names and addresses of persons who gave and received fish, wildlife, or shellfish; the time and place that the fish, wildlife, or shellfish was taken; and identification of species transferred. Where a qualified subsistence user has designated another qualified subsistence user to take fish, wildlife, or shellfish on his or her behalf in accordance with § 242.10(d)(5)(ii), the permit must be furnished in place of a signed statement.

(5) Fish, wildlife, or shellfish taken by a participant in a community harvest system counts toward both the community harvest limit or quota for that species as well as individual harvest limits, Federal or State, for each participant in that community harvest system; however, the take does not count toward individual harvest limits, Federal or State, of any non-participant.

(i) Fish, wildlife, or shellfish taken by someone who is not a participant in a community harvest system does not count toward any community harvest limit or quota.

(ii) For the purposes of this provision, all residents of the community are deemed participants in the community harvest unless the Board-approved framework requires registration as a prerequisite to harvesting or receiving any fish, wildlife, or shellfish pursuant to that community harvest, in which case only those who register are deemed participants in that community harvest.
