
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.26 Subsistence taking of wildlife.
###### Unit 24.

(24)(i) Unit 24 consists of the Koyukuk River drainage upstream from but not including the Dulbi River drainage:

(A) Unit 24A consists of the Middle Fork of the Koyukuk River drainage upstream from but not including the Harriet Creek and North Fork Koyukuk River drainages, to the South Fork of the Koyukuk River drainage upstream from Squaw Creek, the Jim River Drainage, the Fish Creek drainage upstream from and including the Bonanza Creek drainage, to the 1,410 ft. peak of the hydrologic divide with the northern fork of the Kanuti Chalatna River at N lat. 66&#xB0;33.303&#x2032; W long. 151&#xB0;03.637&#x2032; and following the unnamed northern fork of the Kanuti Chalatna Creek to the confluence of the southern fork of the Kanuti Chalatna River at N lat. 66&#xB0;27.090&#x2032; W long. 151&#xB0;23.841&#x2032;, 4.2 miles SSW (194 degrees true) of Clawanmenka Lake and following the unnamed southern fork of the Kanuti Chalatna Creek to the hydrologic divide with the Kanuti River drainage at N lat. 66&#xB0;19.789&#x2032; W long. 151&#xB0;10.102&#x2032;, 3.0 miles ENE (79 degrees true) from the 2,055 ft. peak on that divide, and the Kanuti River drainage upstream from the confluence of an unnamed creek at N lat. 66&#xB0;13.050&#x2032; W long. 151&#xB0;05.864&#x2032;, 0.9 miles SSE (155 degrees true) of a 1,980 ft. peak on that divide, and following that unnamed creek to the Unit 24 boundary on the hydrologic divide to the Ray River drainage at N lat. 66&#xB0;03.827&#x2032; W long. 150&#xB0;49.988&#x2032; at the 2,920 ft. peak of that divide.

(B) Unit 24B consists of the Koyukuk River Drainage upstream from Dog Island to the Subunit 24A boundary.

(C) Unit 24C consists of the Hogatza River Drainage, the Koyukuk River Drainage upstream from Batza River on the north side of the Koyukuk River and upstream from and including the Indian River Drainage on the south side of the Koyukuk River to the Subunit 24B boundary.

(D) Unit 24D consists of the remainder of Unit 24.

(ii) In the following areas, the taking of wildlife for subsistence uses is prohibited or restricted on public land:

(A) You may not use firearms, snowmobiles, licensed highway vehicles, or motorized vehicles, except aircraft and boats, in the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area, which consists of those portions of Units 20, 24, 25, and 26 extending 5 miles from each side of the Dalton Highway from the Yukon River to milepost 300 of the Dalton Highway, except as follows: Residents living within the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area may use snowmobiles only for the subsistence taking of wildlife. You may use licensed highway vehicles only on designated roads within the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. The residents of Alatna, Allakaket, Anaktuvuk Pass, Bettles, Evansville, and Stevens Village, and residents living within the Corridor may use firearms within the Corridor only for subsistence taking of wildlife.

(B) You may not use aircraft for hunting moose, including transportation of any moose hunter or moose part in the Kanuti Controlled Use Area, which consists of that portion of Unit 24 bounded by a line from the Bettles Field VOR to the east side of Fish Creek Lake, to Old Dummy Lake, to the south end of Lake Todatonten (including all waters of these lakes), to the northernmost headwaters of Siruk Creek, to the highest peak of Double Point Mountain, then back to the Bettles Field VOR; however, this does not apply to transportation of a moose hunter or moose part by aircraft between publicly owned airports in the controlled use area or between a publicly owned airport within the area and points outside the area.

(C) You may not use aircraft for hunting moose, including transportation of any moose hunter or moose part in the Koyukuk Controlled Use Area, which consists of those portions of Units 21 and 24 bounded by a line from the north bank of the Yukon River at Koyukuk at 64&#xB0;52.58&#x2032; N lat., 157&#xB0;43.10&#x2032; W long., then northerly to the confluences of the Honhosa and Kateel Rivers at 65&#xB0;28.42&#x2032; N lat., 157&#xB0;44.89&#x2032; W long., then northeasterly to the confluences of Billy Hawk Creek and the Huslia River (65&#xB0;57 N lat., 156&#xB0;41 W long.) at 65&#xB0;56.66&#x2032; N lat., 156&#xB0;40.81&#x2032; W long., then easterly to the confluence of the forks of the Dakli River at 66&#xB0;02.56&#x2032; N lat., 156&#xB0;12.71&#x2032; W long., then easterly to the confluence of McLanes Creek and the Hogatza River at 66&#xB0;00.31&#x2032; N lat., 155&#xB0;18.57&#x2032; W long., then southwesterly to the crest of Hochandochtla Mountain at 65&#xB0;31.87&#x2032; N lat., 154&#xB0;52.18&#x2032; W long., then southwest to the mouth of Cottonwood Creek at 65&#xB0;13.00&#x2032; N lat., 156&#xB0; 06.43&#x2032; W long., then southwest to Bishop Rock (Yistletaw) at 64&#xB0; 49.35&#x2032; N. lat., 157&#xB0;21.73&#x2032; W long., then westerly along the north bank of the Yukon River (including Koyukuk Island) to the point of beginning. However, this does not apply to transportation of a moose hunter or moose part by aircraft between publicly owned airports in the controlled use area or between a publicly owned airport within the area and points outside the area. All hunters on the Koyukuk River passing the ADF&G-operated check station at Ella's Cabin (15 miles upstream from the Yukon on the Koyukuk River) are required to stop and report to ADF&G personnel at the check station.

(iii) You may hunt brown bear by State registration permit in lieu of a resident tag if you have obtained a State registration permit prior to hunting. You may not use aircraft in any manner for brown bear hunting under the authority of a brown bear State registration permit, including transportation of hunters, bears, or parts of bears. However, this prohibition does not apply to transportation of bear hunters or bear parts by regularly scheduled flights to and between communities by carriers that normally provide scheduled service to this area, nor does it apply to transportation of aircraft to or between publicly owned airports.

(iv) Unit-specific regulations:

(A) You may use bait to hunt black bear between April 15 and June 30; and in the Koyukuk Controlled Use Area, you may also use bait to hunt black bear Sep. 1-25.

(B) Arctic fox, incidentally taken with a trap or snare intended for red fox, may be used for subsistence purposes.

(C) If you are a resident of Units 24A, 24B, or 24C, during the dates of Oct. 15-Apr. 30, you may use an artificial light when taking a black bear, including a sow accompanied by cub(s), at a den site within the portions of Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve that are within Units 24A, 24B, or 24C.
