
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### Methods, means, and general restrictions.

(b)(1) Unless otherwise specified in this section or under terms of a required subsistence fishing permit (as may be modified by regulations in this section), you may use the following legal types of gear for subsistence fishing:

(i) A set gillnet;

(ii) A drift gillnet;

(iii) A purse seine;

(iv) A hand purse seine;

(v) A beach seine;

(vi) Troll gear;

(vii) A fish wheel;

(viii) A trawl;

(ix) A pot;

(x) A longline;

(xi) A fyke net;

(xii) A lead;

(xiii) A herring pound;

(xiv) A dip net;

(xv) Jigging gear;

(xvi) A mechanical jigging machine;

(xvii) A handline;

(xviii) A cast net;

(xix) A rod and reel; and

(xx) A spear.

(2) You must include an escape mechanism on all pots used to take fish or shellfish. The escape mechanisms are as follows:

(i) A sidewall, which may include the tunnel, of all shellfish and bottomfish pots must contain an opening equal to or exceeding 18 inches in length, except that in shrimp pots the opening must be a minimum of 6 inches in length. The opening must be laced, sewn, or secured together by a single length of untreated, 100 percent cotton twine, no larger than 30 thread. The cotton twine may be knotted at each end only. The opening must be within 6 inches of the bottom of the pot and must be parallel with it. The cotton twine may not be tied or looped around the web bars. Dungeness crab pots may have the pot lid tie-down straps secured to the pot at one end by a single loop of untreated, 100 percent cotton twine no larger than 60 thread, or the pot lid must be secured so that, when the twine degrades, the lid will no longer be securely closed.

(ii) All king crab, Tanner crab, shrimp, miscellaneous shellfish and bottomfish pots may, instead of complying with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, satisfy the following: a sidewall, which may include the tunnel, must contain an opening at least 18 inches in length, except that shrimp pots must contain an opening at least 6 inches in length. The opening must be laced, sewn, or secured together by a single length of treated or untreated twine, no larger than 36 thread. A galvanic timed-release device, designed to release in no more than 30 days in saltwater, must be integral to the length of twine so that, when the device releases, the twine will no longer secure or obstruct the opening of the pot. The twine may be knotted only at each end and at the attachment points on the galvanic timed-release device. The opening must be within 6 inches of the bottom of the pot and must be parallel with it. The twine may not be tied or looped around the web bars.

(3) For subsistence fishing for salmon, you may not use a gillnet exceeding 50 fathoms in length, unless otherwise specified in this section. The gillnet web must contain at least 30 filaments of equal diameter or at least 6 filaments, each of which must be at least 0.20 millimeter in diameter.

(4) Except as otherwise provided for in this section, you may not obstruct more than one-half the width of any stream with any gear used to take fish for subsistence uses.

(5) You may not use live nonindigenous fish as bait.

(6) You must have your first initial, last name, and address plainly and legibly inscribed on the side of your fish wheel facing midstream of the river.

(7) You may use kegs or buoys of any color but red on any permitted gear, except in the following areas where kegs or buoys of any color, including red, may be used:

(i) Yukon-Northern Area; and

(ii) Kuskokwim Area.

(8) You must have your first initial, last name, and address plainly and legibly inscribed on each keg, buoy, stakes attached to gillnets, stakes identifying gear fished under the ice, and any other unattended fishing gear which you use to take fish for subsistence uses.

(9) You may not use explosives or chemicals to take fish for subsistence uses.

(10) You may not take fish for subsistence uses within 300 feet of any dam, fish ladder, weir, culvert or other artificial obstruction, unless otherwise indicated.
