
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### Bristol Bay Area.

(5)The Bristol Bay Area includes all waters of Bristol Bay, including drainages enclosed by a line from Cape Newenham to Cape Menshikof.

(i) Unless restricted in this section, or unless under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit, you may take fish at any time in the Bristol Bay area.

(ii) You may not take fish from waters within 300 feet of a stream mouth used by salmon.

(iii) You may not subsistence fish with nets in the Tazimina River and within one-fourth mile of the terminus of those waters during the period from September 1 through June 14.

(iv) Unless otherwise specified, you may take salmon by set gillnet only.

(A) You may also take salmon by spear in the Togiak River, excluding its tributaries.

(B) You may also use drift gillnets not greater than 10 fathoms in length to take salmon in the Togiak River in the first 2 river miles upstream from the mouth of the Togiak River to the ADF&G regulatory markers.

(C) You may also take salmon without a permit in Sixmile Lake and its tributaries within and adjacent to the exterior boundaries of Lake Clark National Park and Preserve unless otherwise prohibited, and Lake Clark and its tributaries, by snagging (by handline or rod and reel), using a spear, bow and arrow, rod and reel, or capturing by bare hand.

(D) You may also take salmon by beach seines not exceeding 25 fathoms in length in Lake Clark, excluding its tributaries.

(E) You may also take fish (except rainbow trout) with a fyke net and lead in tributaries of Lake Clark and the tributaries of Sixmile Lake within and adjacent to the exterior boundaries of Lake Clark National Park and Preserve unless otherwise prohibited.
