
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### Alaska Peninsula Area.

(7)The Alaska Peninsula Area includes all waters of Alaska on the north side of the Alaska peninsula southwest of a line from Cape Menshikof (57&#xB0;28.34&#x2032; North latitude, 157&#xB0;55.84&#x2032; West longitude) to Cape Newenham (58&#xB0;39.00' North latitude, 162&#xB0; West longitude) and east of the longitude of Cape Sarichef Light (164&#xB0;55.70&#x2032; West longitude) and on the south side of the Alaska Peninsula from a line extending from Scotch Cape through the easternmost tip of Ugamak Island to a line extending 135&#xB0; southeast from Kupreanof Point (55&#xB0;33.98&#x2032; North latitude, 159&#xB0;35.88&#x2032; West longitude).

(i) You may take fish, other than salmon, rainbow/steelhead trout, or char, at any time unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit. If you take rainbow/steelhead trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries or through the ice, you may retain them for subsistence purposes.

(ii) You may take salmon, trout, and char only under the authority of a subsistence fishing permit.

(iii) You must keep a record on the reverse side of the permit of subsistence-caught fish. You must complete the record immediately upon taking subsistence-caught fish and must return it no later than October 31.

(iv) You may take salmon at any time, except in those districts and sections open to commercial salmon fishing where salmon may not be taken during the 24 hours before and 12 hours following each State open weekly commercial salmon fishing period, or as may be specified on a subsistence fishing permit.

(v) You may not subsistence fish for salmon in the following waters:

(A) Russell Creek and Nurse Lagoon and within 500 yards outside the mouth of Nurse Lagoon;

(B) Trout Creek and within 500 yards outside its mouth.

(vi) You may take salmon by seine, gillnet, rod and reel, or with gear specified on a subsistence fishing permit. You may also take salmon without a permit by snagging (by handline or rod and reel), using a spear, bow and arrow, or capturing by bare hand.

(vii) You may take fish other than salmon by gear listed in this part unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit.

(viii) You may not use a set gillnet exceeding 100 fathoms in length.

(ix) You may take no more than 250 salmon for subsistence purposes unless otherwise specified on your subsistence fishing permit.
