
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### Kodiak Area.

(9)The Kodiak Area includes all waters of Alaska south of a line extending east from Cape Douglas (58&#xB0;51.10&#x2032; North latitude), west of 150&#xB0; West longitude, north of 55&#xB0;30.00&#x2032; North latitude, and north and east of a line extending 135&#xB0; southeast for three miles from a point near Kilokak Rocks at 57&#xB0;10.34&#x2032; North latitude, 156&#xB0;20.22&#x2032; West longitude (the longitude of the southern entrance of Imuya Bay), then due south.

(i) You may take fish other than salmon, rainbow/steelhead trout, char, bottomfish, or herring at any time unless restricted by the terms of a subsistence fishing permit. If you take rainbow/steelhead trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries, you may retain them for subsistence purposes.

(ii) You may take salmon for subsistence purposes 24 hours a day from January 1 through December 31, with the following exceptions:

(A) From June 1 through September 15, you may not use salmon seine vessels to take subsistence salmon for 24 hours before or during, and for 24 hours after any State open commercial salmon fishing period. The use of skiffs from any type of vessel is allowed.

(B) From June 1 through September 15, you may use purse seine vessels to take salmon only with gillnets, and you may have no other type of salmon gear on board the vessel.

(iii) You may not subsistence fish for salmon in the following locations:

(A) Womens Bay closed waters-All waters inside a line from the tip of the Nyman Peninsula (57&#xB0;43.23&#x2032; North latitude, 152&#xB0;31.51&#x2032; West longitude), to the northeastern tip of Mary's Island (57&#xB0;42.40&#x2032; North latitude, 152&#xB0;32.00&#x2032; West longitude), to the southeastern shore of Womens Bay at 57&#xB0;41.95&#x2032; North latitude, 152&#xB0;31.50&#x2032; West longitude.

(B) Buskin River closed waters-All waters inside of a line running from a marker on the bluff north of the mouth of the Buskin River at approximately 57&#xB0;45.80&#x2032; North latitude, 152&#xB0;28.38&#x2032; West longitude, to a point offshore at 57&#xB0;45.35&#x2032; North latitude, 152&#xB0;28.15&#x2032; West longitude, to a marker located onshore south of the river mouth at approximately 57&#xB0;45.15&#x2032; North latitude, 152&#xB0;28.65&#x2032; West longitude.

(C) All waters closed to commercial salmon fishing within 100 yards of the terminus of Selief Bay Creek.

(D) In Afognak Bay north and west of a line from the tip of Last Point to the tip of River Mouth Point.

(E) From August 15 through September 30, all waters 500 yards seaward of the terminus of Little Kitoi Creek.

(F) All fresh water systems of Afognak Island.

(iv) You must have a subsistence fishing permit for taking salmon, trout, and char for subsistence purposes. You must have a subsistence fishing permit for taking herring and bottomfish for subsistence purposes during the State commercial herring sac roe season from April 15 through June 30.

(v) The annual limit for a subsistence salmon fishing permit holder is as follows:

(A) In the Federal public waters of Kodiak Island, east of the line from Crag Point south to the westernmost point of Saltery Cove, including the waters of Woody and Long Islands, and the salt waters bordering this area within 1 mile of Kodiak Island, excluding the waters bordering Spruce Island, 25 salmon for the permit holder plus an additional 25 salmon for each member of the same household whose names are listed on the permit: an additional permit may be obtained upon request.

(B) In the remainder of the Kodiak Area not described in paragraph (e)(9)(v)(A) of this section, there is no annual harvest limit for a subsistence salmon fishing permit holder.

(vi) You must record on your subsistence permit the number of subsistence fish taken. You must record all harvested fish prior to leaving the fishing site, and must return the permit by the due date marked on permit.

(vii) You may take fish other than salmon by gear listed in this part unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit.

(viii) You may take salmon only by gillnet, rod and reel, or seine.

(ix) You must be physically present at the net when the net is being fished.
