
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### Prince William Sound Area.

(11)The Prince William Sound Area includes all waters and drainages of Alaska between the longitude of Cape Fairfield and the longitude of Cape Suckling. The Lower Copper River Area includes that portion of the Copper River, from a boundary one-half mile upstream of the Copper River Highway to a boundary extending one-half mile downstream of the Copper River Highway, from the west bank of the river near highway mile 27 to the east bank of the river near highway mile 38.

(i) You may take fish, other than rainbow/steelhead trout, in the Prince William Sound Area only under authority of a subsistence fishing permit, except that a permit is not required to take eulachon. You make not take rainbow/steelhead trout, except as otherwise provided for in this paragraph (e)(11).

(A) In the Prince William Sound Area within Chugach National Forest and in the Copper River drainage downstream of Haley Creek, you may accumulate Federal subsistence fishing harvest limits with harvest limits under State of Alaska sport fishing regulations provided that accumulation of fishing harvest limits does not occur during the same day.

(B) You may accumulate harvest limits of salmon authorized for the Copper River drainage upstream from Haley Creek with harvest limits for salmon authorized under State of Alaska sport fishing regulations.

(ii) You may take fish by gear listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section unless restricted in this section or under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit.

(iii) If you catch rainbow/steelhead trout incidentally in other subsistence net fisheries, you may retain them for subsistence purposes, unless restricted in this section.

(iv) In the Copper River drainage, you may take salmon only in the waters of the Upper Copper River District or in the vicinity of the Native Village of Batzulnetas and in the Lower Copper River Area.

(v) In the Upper Copper River District, you may take salmon only by fish wheels, rod and reel, or dip nets. In the Lower Copper River Area, you may take salmon only by dip nets and rod and reel. All salmon retained from the Lower Copper River Area must be reported to area managers within 48 hours of harvest.

(A) In the Lower Copper River Area, you may not dip net from a boat.

(B) In the Lower Copper River Area, the salmon fishery opens on June 1 and closes on September 30.

(vi) Rainbow/steelhead trout and other freshwater fish caught incidentally to salmon by fish wheel in the Upper Copper River District may be retained.

(vii) Freshwater fish other than rainbow/steelhead trout caught incidentally to salmon by dip net in the Upper Copper River District may be retained. Rainbow/steelhead trout caught incidentally to salmon by dip net in the Upper Copper River District must be released unharmed to the water.

(viii) You may not possess salmon taken under the authority of an Upper Copper River District subsistence fishing permit, or rainbow/steelhead trout caught incidentally to salmon by fish wheel, unless the anal fin has been immediately removed from the fish. You must immediately record all retained fish on the subsistence permit. Immediately means prior to concealing the fish from plain view or transporting the fish more than 50 feet from where the fish was removed from the water.

(ix) You may take salmon in the Upper Copper River District from May 15 through September 30 only.

(x) The total annual harvest limit for subsistence salmon fishing permits in combination for the Glennallen Subdistrict and the Chitina Subdistrict is as follows:

(A) For a household with 1 person, 30 salmon, of which no more than 5 may be Chinook salmon taken by dip net and no more than 5 Chinook taken by rod and reel.

(B) For a household with 2 persons, 60 salmon, of which no more than 5 may be Chinook salmon taken by dip net and no more than 5 Chinook taken by rod and reel, plus 10 salmon for each additional person in a household over 2 persons, except that the household's limit for Chinook salmon taken by dip net or rod and reel does not increase.

(C) Upon request, permits for additional salmon will be issued for no more than a total of 200 salmon for a permit issued to a household with 1 person, of which no more than 5 may be Chinook salmon taken by dip net and no more than 5 Chinook taken by rod and reel, or no more than a total of 500 salmon for a permit issued to a household with 2 or more persons, of which no more than 5 may be Chinook salmon taken by dip net and no more than 5 Chinook taken by rod and reel.

(xi) The following apply to Upper Copper River District subsistence salmon fishing permits:

(A) Only one subsistence fishing permit per subdistrict will be issued to each household per year. If a household has been issued permits for both subdistricts in the same year, both permits must be in your possession and readily available for inspection while fishing or transporting subsistence-taken fish in either subdistrict. A qualified household may also be issued a Batzulnetas salmon fishery permit in the same year.

(B) Multiple types of gear may be specified on a permit, although only one unit of gear per person may be operated at any one time.

(C) You must return your permit no later than October 31 of the year in which the permit is issued, or you may be denied a permit for the following year.

(D) A fish wheel may be operated only by one permit holder at one time; that permit holder must have the fish wheel marked as required by paragraph (e)(11)(xii)(B) or (e)(11)(xiii)(E) of this section and during fishing operations.

(E) Only the permit holder and the authorized member(s) of the household listed on the subsistence permit may take salmon.

(F) You must personally operate your fish wheel or dip net.

(G) You may not loan or transfer a subsistence fish wheel or dip net permit except as permitted.
