
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### e.g.,

(H) While you are fishing from a boat or other watercraft, you may not use any device that indicates bathymetry and/or fish locations,fish finders. These devices do not have to be removed or uninstalled from a boat or watercraft.

(xii) If you are a fish wheel owner:

(A) You must register your fish wheel with ADF&G or the Federal Subsistence Board.

(B) Your registration number and a wood, metal, or plastic plate at least 12 inches high by 12 inches wide bearing either your name and address, or your Alaska driver's license number, or your Alaska State identification card number in letters and numerals at least 1 inch high, must be permanently affixed and plainly visible on the fish wheel when the fish wheel is in the water.

(C) Only the current year's registration number may be affixed to the fish wheel; you must remove any other registration number from the fish wheel.

(D) You are responsible for the fish wheel; you must remove the fish wheel from the water at the end of the permit period.

(E) You may not rent, lease, or otherwise use your fish wheel used for subsistence fishing for personal gain.

(xiii) If you are operating a fish wheel:

(A) You may operate only one fish wheel at any one time.

(B) You may not set or operate a fish wheel within 75 feet of another fish wheel.

(C) You must check your fish wheel at least once every 10 hours and remove all fish.

(D) No fish wheel may have more than two baskets.

(E) If you are a permittee other than the owner, you must attach an additional wood, metal, or plastic plate at least 12 inches high by 12 inches wide, bearing your name and address in letters and numerals at least 1 inch high, to the fish wheel so that the name and address are plainly visible.

(xiv) A subsistence fishing permit may be issued to a village council, or other similarly qualified organization whose members operate fish wheels for subsistence purposes in the Upper Copper River District, to operate fish wheels on behalf of members of its village or organization. The following additional provisions apply to subsistence fishing permits issued under this paragraph (e)(11)(xiv):

(A) The permit will list all households and household members for whom the fish wheel is being operated. The permit will identify a person who will be responsible for the fish wheel and will be the same person as is listed on the fish wheel described in paragraph (e)(11)(xiii)(E) of this section.

(B) The allowable harvest may not exceed the combined seasonal limits for the households listed on the permit; the permittee will notify the ADF&G or Federal Subsistence Board when households are added to the list, and the seasonal limit may be adjusted accordingly.

(C) Members of households listed on a permit issued to a village council or other similarly qualified organization are not eligible for a separate household subsistence fishing permit for the Upper Copper River District.

(D) The permit will include provisions for recording daily catches for each fish wheel; location and number of fish wheels; full legal name of the individual responsible for the lawful operation of each fish wheel as described in paragraph (e)(11)(xiii)(E) of this section; and other information determined to be necessary for effective resource management.

(xv) You may take salmon in the vicinity of the former Native village of Batzulnetas only under the authority of a Batzulnetas subsistence salmon fishing permit available from the National Park Service under the following conditions:

(A) You may take salmon only in those waters of the Copper River between National Park Service regulatory markers located near the mouth of Tanada Creek and approximately one-half mile downstream from that mouth and in Tanada Creek between National Park Service regulatory markers identifying the open waters of the creek.

(B) You may use only fish wheels, dip nets, and rod and reel on the Copper River and only dip nets, spears, fyke nets, and rod and reel in Tanada Creek. One fyke net and associated lead may be used in Tanada Creek upstream of the National Park Service weir.

(C) You may take salmon only from May 15 through September 30 or until the season is closed by special action.

(D) You may retain Chinook salmon taken in a fish wheel in the Copper River. You must return to the water unharmed any Chinook salmon caught in Tanada Creek.

(E) You must return the permit to the National Park Service no later than October 15 of the year the permit was issued.

(F) You may only use a fyke net after consultation with the in-season manager. You must be present when the fyke net is actively fishing. You may take no more than 1,000 sockeye salmon in Tanada Creek with a fyke net.

(xvi) You may take pink salmon for subsistence purposes from fresh water with a dip net from May 15 through September 30, 7 days per week, with no harvest or possession limits in the following areas:

(A) Green Island, Knight Island, Chenega Island, Bainbridge Island, Evans Island, Elrington Island, Latouche Island, and adjacent islands, and the mainland waters from the outer point of Granite Bay located in Knight Island Passage to Cape Fairfield;

(B) Waters north of a line from Porcupine Point to Granite Point, and south of a line from Point Lowe to Tongue Point.

(xvii) In the Chugach National Forest portion of the Prince William Sound Area, and the Lower Copper River Area, you must possess a Federal subsistence fishing permit to take salmon, trout, whitefish, grayling, Dolly Varden, or char. Permits are available from the Cordova Ranger District.

(A) Salmon harvest is not allowed in Eyak Lake and its tributaries, the remainder of the Copper River and its tributaries outside of the Lower Copper River Area, and Eyak River upstream from the Copper River Highway Bridge.

(B) You must record on your subsistence permit the number of subsistence fish taken. You must record all harvested fish prior to leaving the fishing site and return the permit by the due date marked on the permit.

(C) You must remove both lobes of the caudal (tail) fin from subsistence-caught salmon before leaving the fishing site.

(D) Excluding the areas described in paragraph (e)(11)(xvii)(A) of this section, you may take salmon by rod and reel, dip net, spear, and gaff year-round.

(E) For a household with 1 person, 15 salmon (other than pink) may be taken, and 5 cutthroat trout, with only 2 over 20 inches, may be taken; no more than 5 Chinook salmon per household; for pink salmon, see the conditions of the permit.

(F) For a household with 2 persons, 30 salmon (other than pink) may be taken, plus an additional 10 salmon for each additional person in a household over 2 persons, and 5 cutthroat trout, with only 2 over 20 inches per each household member with a maximum household limit of 30 cutthroat trout may be taken; no more than 5 Chinook salmon per household; for pink salmon, see the conditions of the permit.

(G) You may take Dolly Varden, Arctic char, whitefish, and grayling with rod and reel and spear year-round and with a gillnet from January 1 to April 1. The maximum incidental gillnet harvest of trout is 10.

(H) You may take cutthroat trout with rod and reel and spear from June 15 to April 14 and with a gillnet from January 1 to April 1.

(I) You may not retain rainbow/steelhead trout for subsistence unless taken incidentally in a subsistence gillnet fishery. Rainbow/steelhead trout must be immediately released from a dip net without harm.
