
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.27 Subsistence taking of fish.
###### Yakutat Area.

(12)The Yakutat Area includes all waters and drainages of Alaska between the longitude of Cape Suckling and the longitude of Cape Fairweather.

(i) Unless restricted in this section or unless restricted under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit, you may take fish at any time in the Yakutat Area.

(ii) You may take salmon, trout (other than steelhead), and char only under authority of a subsistence fishing permit. You may take steelhead trout only in the Situk and Ahrnklin Rivers and only under authority of a Federal subsistence fishing permit.

(iii) If you take salmon, trout, or char incidentally by gear operated under the terms of a subsistence permit for salmon, you may retain them for subsistence purposes. You must report any salmon, trout, or char taken in this manner on your permit calendar.

(iv) You may take fish by gear listed in this part unless restricted in this section or under the terms of a subsistence fishing permit. In areas where use of rod and reel is allowed, you may use artificial fly, lure, or bait when fishing with rod and reel, unless restricted by Federal permit. If you use bait, you must retain all Federally regulated fish species caught, and they apply to your applicable daily and annual harvest limits for that species. For streams with steelhead, once your daily or annual limit of steelhead is harvested, you may no longer fish with bait for any species.

(v) In the Situk River, each subsistence salmon fishing permit holder shall attend his or her gillnet at all times when it is being used to take salmon.

(vi) You may block up to two-thirds of a stream with a gillnet or seine used for subsistence fishing.

(vii) You must immediately remove both lobes of the caudal (tail) fin from subsistence-caught salmon when taken.

(viii) You may not possess subsistence-taken and sport-taken salmon on the same day.

(ix) You must possess a subsistence fishing permit to take Dolly Varden. The daily harvest and possession limit is 10 Dolly Varden of any size.
