
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.28 Subsistence taking of shellfish.
###### Permit requirements.

(d)If a subsistence shellfish permit is required by this section, the following conditions apply unless otherwise specified by the subsistence regulations in this section:

(1) You may not take shellfish for subsistence in excess of the limits set out in the permit unless a different limit is specified in this section.

(2) You must obtain a permit prior to subsistence fishing.

(3) You must have the permit in your possession and readily available for inspection while taking or transporting the species for which the permit is issued.

(4) The permit may designate the species and numbers of shellfish to be harvested, time and area of fishing, the type and amount of fishing gear and other conditions necessary for management or conservation purposes.

(5) If specified on the permit, you must keep accurate daily records of the catch involved, showing the number of shellfish taken by species, location and date of the catch, and such other information as may be required for management or conservation purposes.

(6) You must complete and submit subsistence fishing reports at the time specified for each particular area and fishery.

(7) If the return of catch information necessary for management and conservation purposes is required by a subsistence fishing permit and you fail to comply with such reporting requirements, you are ineligible to receive a subsistence permit for that activity during the following calendar year, unless you demonstrate that failure to report was due to loss in the mail, accident, sickness, or other unavoidable circumstances.
