
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 242 - SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
#### Subpart D - Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife
##### ยง 242.28 Subsistence taking of shellfish.
###### Kodiak Area.

(4)(i) You may take crab for subsistence purposes only under the authority of a subsistence crab fishing permit issued by the ADF&G.

(ii) The operator of a commercially licensed and registered shrimp fishing vessel must obtain a subsistence fishing permit from the ADF&G before subsistence shrimp fishing during a State closed commercial shrimp fishing season or within a closed commercial shrimp fishing district, section, or subsection. The permit must specify the area and the date the vessel operator intends to fish. No more than 500 pounds (227 kg) of shrimp may be in possession aboard the vessel.

(iii) The daily harvest and possession limit is 12 male Dungeness crabs per person; only male Dungeness crabs with a shell width of 6inches or greater may be taken or possessed. Taking of Dungeness crab is prohibited in water 25 fathoms or more in depth during the 14 days immediately before the State opening of a commercial king or Tanner crab fishing season in the location.

(iv) In the subsistence taking of king crab:

(A) The annual limit is three crabs per household; only male king crab with shell width of 7 inches or greater may be taken or possessed.

(B) All crab pots used for subsistence fishing and left in saltwater unattended longer than a 2-week period must have all bait and bait containers removed and all doors secured fully open.

(C) You may only use one crab pot, which may be of any size, to take king crab.

(D) You may take king crab only from June 1 through January 31, except that the subsistence taking of king crab is prohibited in waters 25 fathoms or greater in depth during the period 14 days before and 14 days after State open commercial fishing seasons for red king crab, blue king crab, or Tanner crab in the location.

(E) The waters of the Pacific Ocean enclosed by the boundaries of Womens Bay, Gibson Cove, and an area defined by a linemile on either side of the mouth of the Karluk River, and extending seaward 3,000 feet, and all waters within 1,500 feet seaward of the shoreline of Afognak Island are closed to the harvest of king crab except by Federally qualified subsistence users.

(v) In the subsistence taking of Tanner crab:

(A) You may not use more than five crab pots to take Tanner crab.

(B) You may not take Tanner crab in waters 25 fathoms or greater in depth during the 14 days immediately before the opening of a State commercial king or Tanner crab fishing season in the location.

(C) The daily harvest and possession limit per person is 12 male crabs with a shell width 5inches or greater.
