
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.16 Yosemite National Park.
##### Regulations governing eating and drinking establishments and sale of food and drink.

(h)(1) No restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order cafe, lunch room, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, or other eating and drinking establishment, including kitchens, or other place in which food and drink is prepared for sale elsewhere, may be operated on any privately-owned lands within Yosemite National Park unless a permit for the operation thereof has first been secured from the Superintendent.

(2) The Superintendent will issue such a permit only after an inspection of the premises to be licensed by the County Health Officer and written notice that the premises comply with the substantive requirements of State and County health laws and ordinances which would apply to the premises if the privately-owned lands were not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(3) The Superintendent or his duly authorized representative shall have the right of inspection at all reasonable times for the purpose of ascertaining whether eating and drinking establishments are being operated in a sanitary manner.

(4) No fee will be charged for the issuance of such a permit.

(5) The applicant or permittee may appeal to the Regional Director, National Park Service, from any final action of the Superintendent refusing, conditioning or revoking the permit. Such an appeal, in writing, shall be filed within twenty days after receipt of notice by the applicant or permittee of the action appealed from. Any final decision of the Regional Director may be appealed to the Director of the National Park Service within 15 days after receipt of notice by the applicant or permittee of the Regional Director's decision.

(6) The revocable permit for eating and drinking establishments and sale of food and drink authorized in this paragraph to be issued by the Superintendent shall contain general regulatory provisions as hereinafter set forth, and will include such special conditions as the Superintendent may deem necessary to cover existing local circumstances, and shall be in a form substantially as follows:
