
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart A - Miscellaneous Land Uses
##### Natural Resources Control
###### ยง 251.9 Management of Municipal Watersheds.

(a) The Forest Service shall manage National Forest watersheds that supply municipal water under multiple use prescriptions in forest plans (36 CFR part 219). When a municipality desires protective actions or restrictions of use not specified in the forest plan, within agreements, and/or special use authorizations, the municipality must apply to the Forest Service for consideration of these needs.

(b) When deemed appropriate by the Regional Forester, requested restrictions and/or requirements shall be incorporated in the forest plan without written agreements. Written agreements with municipalities to assure protection of water supplies are appropriate when requested by the municipality and deemed necessary by the Regional Forester. A special use authorization may be needed to effect these agreements.

(c) In preparing any municipal watershed agreement for approval by the Regional Forester or issuing special use authorization to protect municipal water supplies, the authorized forest officer shall specify the types of uses, if any, to be restricted; the nature and extent of any restrictions; any special land management protective measures and/or any necessary standards and guidelines needed to protect water quality or quantity; and any resources that are to be provided by the municipality.

(d) A special use authorization (36 CFR 251.54) is required if the municipality is to use the subject lands, restrict public access, or control resource uses within the watershed. Special use authorizations issued pursuant to this section are subject to the same fee waivers, conditions, and procedures applicable to all other special uses as set forth in subpart B of this part.

(e) Any municipal watershed management agreements, special use authorizations, requirements, and/or restrictions shall be consistent with forest plans, or amendments and revisions thereto.
