
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart A - Miscellaneous Land Uses
##### Rights of Grantors
###### ยง 251.18 Rights-of-way reserved by the grantor on lands conveyed to the United States.

This section governs the use, occupancy, and operation of rights-of-way reserved by a grantor of lands to the United States.

(a) Brush and refuse resulting from the exercise of the right-of-way reservation shall be disposed of to the satisfaction of the Forest Officer in charge.

(b) Timber cut and destroyed in the exercise of the right-of-way reservation shall be paid for at rates to be prescribed by the Forest Officer in charge, which rates shall be the usual stumpage prices charged in the locality in sales of national forest timber of the same kind or species; for injury to timber, second growth, and reproduction, the amount of actual damage shall be ascertained by the Forest Supervisor according to the rules applicable in such cases.

(c) All improvements built or maintained upon the right-of-way shall be kept in an orderly, safe and sanitary condition. Failure to maintain such conditions shall be cause for the termination of the reservation after 30 days' notice in writing to the occupant or user that unsatisfactory conditions exist and that the Department intends to terminate all rights under the reservation unless such conditions are forthwith corrected to the satisfaction of the Regional Forester.

(d) Upon the abandonment of a reserved right-of-way, either by formal release, by termination, or by non-use for a period of one calendar year, all improvements thereon not the property of the United States shall be removed therefrom within three months from the date of the abandonment, otherwise such improvements shall vest in and become the property of the United States.

(e) All reasonable precautions to prevent and suppress forest fires shall be taken by the grantor and all persons acting for or claiming under him; suitable crossings shall be constructed by grantor and/or said persons where the reserved right-of-way intersects existing roads and trails; borrow pits shall not be opened outside of the immediate graded section except under a special use permit from the Forest Supervisor.

(f) Officers of the Forest Service shall have free ingress and egress on and over the reserved rights-of-way for all purposes necessary and incidental to the protection and administration of the national forest.
