
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.53 Authorities.
###### et seq.

(c) Permits under the Act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431,), for the examination of ruins, the excavation of archaeological sites, and the gathering of objects of antiquity in conformity with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and War, December 28, 1906 (43 CFR part 3);

(d) Term permits under the Act of March 4, 1915, 38 Stat. 1101, as amended, 70 Stat. 708 (16 U.S.C. 497) for periods not over 30 years and (1) for not over 80 acres for (i) hotels, resorts, and other structures and facilities for recreation, public convenience, or safety; (ii) industrial or commercial purposes, and (iii) education or public activities; and (2) for not over 5 acres for summer homes and stores;

(e) Permits or easements for a right-of-way for a pipeline for the transportation of oil, gas, or oil or gas products, where no Federal land besides National Forest System lands is required, and permits for the temporary use of additional National Forest System lands necessary for construction, operation, maintenance, or termination of a pipeline or to protect the natural environment or public safety under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act, 41 Stat. 449, as amended (30 U.S.C 185);

(f) Permits, term permits, and easements in the National Grasslands and other lands acquired or administered under title III, Act of July 22, 1937, 50 Stat. 525, as amended, (7 U.S.C. 1011(d));

(g) Permits under section 7 of the Act of April 24, 1950, 64 Stat. 84 (16 U.S.C. 580d) for periods not over 30 years for the use of structures or improvements under the administrative control of the Forest Service and land used in connection therewith;

(h) Permits, term permits, leases, or easements as authorized by the Act of September 3, 1954, 68 Stat. 1146 (43 U.S.C. 931c, 931d), to States, counties, cities, towns, townships, municipal corporations, or other public agencies for periods not over 30 years, at prices representing the fair market value, fixed by the Chief, through appraisal for the purpose of constructing and maintaining on such lands public buildings or other public works;

(i) Permits under the Wilderness Act of September 3, 1964, 78 Stat. 890 (16 U.S.C. 1131-1136) for temporary structures and commercial services and for access to valid mining claims or other valid occupancies and to surrounded State or private land within designated wilderness (see part 293 of this chapter);

(j) Temporary or permanent easements under the Act of October 13, 1964, 78 Stat. 1089 (16 U.S.C. 532-538) for road rights-of-way over lands and interests in land administered by the Forest Service (see ยง 212.10 of this chapter);

(k) Special recreation permits issued under section 803(h) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(h)), for specialized recreation uses of National Forest System lands, such as group activities, recreation events, and motorized recreational vehicle use.

(l) Permits, leases and easements under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 2776 (43 U.S.C. 1761-1771) for rights-of-way for:

(1) Reservoirs, canals, ditches, flumes, laterals, pipes, pipelines, tunnels, and other facilities and systems for the impoundment, storage, transportation, or distribution of water;

(2) Pipelines and other systems for the transportation or distribution of liquids and gases, other than water and other than oil, natural gas, synthetic liquid or gaseous fuels, or any refined product produced therefrom, and for storage and terminal facilities in connection therewith;

(3) Pipelines, slurry and emulsion systems, and conveyor belts for transportation and distribution of solid materials, and facilities for the storage of such materials in connection therewith;
