
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.54 Proposal and application requirements and procedures.
###### Pre-application actions,Initial screening.

(e)-(1)Upon receipt of a request for any proposed use other than for noncommercial group use, the authorized officer shall screen the proposal to ensure that the use meets the following minimum requirements applicable to all special uses:

(i) The proposed use is consistent with the laws, regulations, orders, and policies establishing or governing National Forest System lands, with other applicable Federal law, and with applicable State and local health and sanitation laws.

(ii) The proposed use is consistent or can be made consistent with standards and guidelines in the applicable forest land and resource management plan prepared under the National Forest Management Act and 36 CFR part 219.

(iii) The proposed use will not pose a serious or substantial risk to public health or safety.

(iv) The proposed use will not create an exclusive or perpetual right of use or occupancy.

(v) The proposed use will not unreasonably conflict or interfere with administrative use by the Forest Service, other scheduled or authorized existing uses of the National Forest System, or use of adjacent non-National Forest System lands.

(vi) The proponent does not have any delinquent debt owed to the Forest Service under terms and conditions of a prior or existing authorization, unless such debt results from a decision on an administrative appeal or from a fee review and the proponent is current with the payment schedule.

(vii) The proposed use does not involve gambling or providing of sexually oriented commercial services, even if permitted under State law.

(viii) The proposed use does not involve military or paramilitary training or exercises by private organizations or individuals, unless such training or exercises are federally funded.

(ix) The proposed use does not involve disposal of solid waste or disposal of radioactive or other hazardous substances.
