
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.54 Proposal and application requirements and procedures.
###### Processing applications.

(2)(i) Upon acceptance of an application for a special use authorization other than a planning permit, the authorized officer shall evaluate the proposed use for the requested site, including effects on the environment. The authorized officer may request such additional information as necessary to obtain a full description of the proposed use and its effects.

(ii) Federal, State, and local government agencies and the public shall receive adequate notice and an opportunity to comment upon a special use proposal accepted as a formal application in accordance with Forest Service NEPA procedures.

(iii) The authorized officer shall give due deference to the findings of another agency such as a Public Utility Commission, the Federal Regulatory Energy Commission, or the Interstate Commerce Commission in lieu of another detailed finding. If this information is already on file with the Forest Service, it need not be refiled, if reference is made to the previous filing date, place, and case number.

(iv) Applications for noncommercial group uses must be received at least 72 hours in advance of the proposed activity. Applications for noncommercial group uses shall be processed in order of receipt, and the use of a particular area shall be allocated in order of receipt of fully executed applications, subject to any relevant limitations set forth in this section.

(v) For applications for planning permits, including those issued for a major development as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the authorized officer shall assess only the applicant's financial and technical qualifications and determine compliance with other applicable laws, regulations, and orders. Planning permits may be categorically excluded from documentation in an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement pursuant to Forest Service Handbook 1909.15 (36 CFR 200.4).
