
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.56 Terms and conditions.
###### Common carriers.

(2)Oil and gas pipelines and related facilities authorized under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 449, as amended (30 U.S.C. 185), shall be constructed, operated and maintained as common carriers. The owners or operators of pipelines shall accept, convey, transport, or purchase without discrimination all oil or gas delivered to the pipeline without regard to whether such oil or gas was produced on Federal or nonfederal lands. In the case of oil or gas produced from Federal lands or from the resources on the Federal lands in the vicinity of the pipeline, the Secretary may, after a full hearing with due notice thereof to interested parties and a proper finding of facts, determine the proportionate amounts to be accepted, conveyed, transported, or purchased. The common carrier provisions of this section shall not apply to any natural gas pipeline operated (i) by any person subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 821, as amended, (15 U.S.C. 717) or (ii) by any public utility subject to regulation by a State or municipal regulatory agency having jurisdiction to regulate the rates and charges for the sale of natural gas to consumers within the State or municipality. Where natural gas not subject to State regulatory or conservation laws governing its purchase by pipeline companies is offered for sale, each pipeline company shall purchase, without discrimination, any such natural gas produced in the vicinity of the pipeline.
