
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.56 Terms and conditions.
###### Existing operating plans and lack of an operating plan.

(3)The authorized officer shall determine, in consultation with the owner or operator of a powerline facility, whether the existing operating plan for that powerline facility is consistent with paragraph (h) of this section and shall notify the owner or operator of that determination. Within 18 months of the date of notification that the existing operating plan is inconsistent with paragraph (h) of this section, the owner or operator shall modify the existing operating plan to be consistent with paragraph (h) of this section or, if eligible, shall prepare a proposed operating agreement and shall submit the proposed modified operating plan or proposed operating agreement to the authorized officer for review and approval. Existing operating plans that are consistent with paragraph (h) of this section do not have to be submitted for reapproval by the authorized officer. If an owner or operator does not have an operating plan, within 18 months of the date of notification from the authorized officer that a proposed operating plan or agreement must be submitted, the owner or operator shall submit to the authorized officer a proposed operating plan or agreement consistent with paragraph (h) of this section for review and approval. The authorized officer shall provide notification of the requirement to submit a proposed modified operating plan or a proposed operating plan or agreement no later than September 30, 2026. The authorized officer has the discretion to determine the sequence of notification, based on factors enumerated in implementing Forest Service directives.
