
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.17 Cuyahoga Valley National Park.
##### Bicycles.

(b)(1) The Superintendent may authorize bicycle use on all or portions of each of the following trails:

(i) East Rim (approximately 10 miles);

(ii) Old Carriage Connector Trail (approximately 0.35 miles); and

(iii) Highland Connector Trail (approximately 1.0 mile).

(2) After trail construction is complete:

(i) To authorize bicycle use, the Superintendent must make a written determination that:

(A) The trail is open for public use; and

(B) Bicycle use is consistent with the protection of the park area's natural, scenic and aesthetic values, safety considerations, and management objectives, and will not disturb wildlife or park resources.

(ii) The Superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in ยง 1.7 of this chapter.

(3) The Superintendent may open or close authorized trails, or portions thereof, or impose conditions or restrictions for bicycle use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.

(i) The Superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in ยง 1.7 of this chapter.

(ii) Violating a closure, condition, or restriction is prohibited.
