
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.57 Rental fees.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part or when specifically authorized by the Secretary of Agriculture, special use authorizations shall require the payment in advance of an annual rental fee as determined by the authorized officer.

(1) The fee shall be based on the fair market value of the rights and privileges authorized, as determined by appraisal or other sound business management principles.

(2) Where annual fees of one hundred dollars ($100) or less are assessed, the authorized officer may require either annual payment or a payment covering more than one year at a time. If the annual fee is greater than one hundred dollars ($100), holders who are private individuals (that is, acting in an individual capacity), as opposed to those who are commercial, other corporate, or business or government entities, may, at their option, elect to make either annual payments or payments covering more than one year.

(3) A base cabin user fee for a recreation residence use shall be 5 percent of the market value of the recreation residence lot, established by an appraisal conducted in accordance with the Act of October 11, 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6201-13).

(b) All or part of the fee may be waived by the authorized officer, when equitable and in the public interest, for the use and occupancy of National Forest System land in the following circumstances:

(1) The holder is a State or local government or any agency or instrumentality thereof, excluding municipal utilities and cooperatives whose principal source of revenue from the authorized use is customer charges; or

(2) The holder is a nonprofit association or nonprofit corporation, which is not controlled or owned by profit-making corporations or business enterprises, and which is engaged in public or semi-public activity to further public health, safety, or welfare, except that free use will not be authorized when funds derived by the holder through the authorization are used to increase the value of the authorized improvements owned by the holder, or are used to support other activities of the holder; or

(3) The holder provides without charge, or at reduced charge, a valuable benefit to the public or to the programs of the Secretary; or

(4) When the rental fee is included in the fees for an authorized use or occupancy for which the United States is already receiving compensation; or

(5) When a right-of-way is authorized in reciprocation for a right-of-way conveyed to the United States; or

(6) For rights-of-way involving cost-share roads or reciprocal right-of-way agreements.

(c) No rental fee will be charged when the holder is the Federal government.

(d) No fee shall be charged when the authorization is for a noncommercial group use as defined in ยง 251.51 of this subpart.

(e) Special use authorizations issued under ยง 251.53(g) of this part may require as all or a part of the consideration the reconditioning and maintenance of the government-owned or controlled structures, improvements, and land to a satisfactory standard. The total consideration will be based upon the fair market value of the rights and privileges authorized.

(f) Special use authorizations involving government-owned or controlled buildings, structures, or other improvements which require caretakers' services, or the furnishing of special services such as water, electric lights, and clean-up, may require the payment of an additional fee or charge to cover the cost of such services.

(g) Except where specified otherwise by terms of a special use authorization, rental fees may be initiated or adjusted whenever necessary: (1) As a result of fee review, reappraisal; or (2) upon a change in the holder's qualifications under paragraph (b) of this section; and (3) notice is given prior to initiating or adjusting rental fees.

(h) Each ski area authorization issued under the authority of the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act shall include a clause that provides that the Forest Service may adjust and calculate future rental fees to reflect Agency revisions to the existing system for determining fees based on fair market value or to comply with any new fee system for determining fees based on fair market value that may be adopted after issuance of the authorization.

(i) Each permit or term permit for a recreation residence use shall include a clause stating that the Forest Service shall recalculate the base cabin user fee at least every 10 years and shall use an appraisal to recalculate that fee as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
