
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.58 Cost recovery.
###### Basis for processing fees.

(1)The processing fee categories 1 through 6 set out in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this section are based upon the costs that the Forest Service incurs in reviewing the application, conducting environmental analyses of the effects of the proposed use, reviewing any applicant-generated environmental documents and studies, conducting site visits, evaluating an applicant's technical and financial qualifications, making a decision on whether to issue the authorization, and preparing documentation of analyses, decisions, and authorizations for each application. The processing fee for an application shall be based only on costs necessary for processing that application. "Necessary for" means that but for the application, the costs would not have been incurred and that the costs cover only those activities without which the application cannot be processed. The processing fee shall not include costs for studies for programmatic planning or analysis or other agency management objectives, unless they are necessary for the application being processed. For example, the processing fee shall not include costs for capacity studies, use allocation decisions, corridor or communications site planning, and biological studies that address species diversity, unless they are necessary for the application. Proportional costs for analyses, such as capacity studies, that are necessary for an application may be included in the processing fee for that application. The costs incurred for processing an application, and thus the processing fee, depend on the complexity of the project; the amount of information that is necessary for the authorized officer's decision in response to the proposed use and occupancy; and the degree to which the applicant can provide this information to the agency. Processing work conducted by the applicant or a third party contracted by the applicant minimizes the costs the Forest Service will incur to process the application, and thus reduces the processing fee. The total processing time is the total time estimated for all Forest Service personnel involved in processing an application and is estimated case by case to determine the fee category.
