
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.58 Cost recovery.
###### Billing and payment of monitoring fees.

(3)(i) The authorized officer shall estimate the monitoring costs and shall notify the holder of the required fee. Monitoring fees in minor categories 1 through 4 must be paid in full before or at the same time the authorization is issued. For authorizations in major category 5 and category 6, the estimated monitoring fees must be paid in full before or at the same time the authorization is issued, unless the authorized officer and the applicant or holder agree in writing to periodic payments.

(ii) For category 5 cases, when the estimated monitoring costs are lower than the final monitoring costs for authorizations covered by a master agreement, the holder shall pay the difference between the estimated and final monitoring costs.

(iii) For category 6 cases, when the estimated monitoring fee is lower than the full actual costs of monitoring an authorization issued under the Mineral Leasing Act, or lower than the full reasonable costs (when the holder has not waived payment of reasonable costs) of monitoring an authorization issued under other authorities, the holder shall pay the difference in the next periodic payment or the authorized officer shall bill the holder for the difference between the estimated and full actual or reasonable monitoring costs. Payment shall be due within 30 days of receipt of the bill.
