
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.58 Cost recovery.
###### Applicant and holder disputes concerning processing or monitoring fee assessments; requests for changes in fee categories or estimated costs.

(e)(1) If an applicant or holder disagrees with the processing or monitoring fee category assigned by the authorized officer for a minor category or, in the case of a major processing or monitoring category, with the estimated dollar amount of the processing or monitoring costs, the applicant or holder may submit a written request before the disputed fee is due for substitution of an alternative fee category or alternative estimated costs to the immediate supervisor of the authorized officer who determined the fee category or estimated costs. The applicant or holder must provide documentation that supports the alternative fee category or estimated costs.

(2) In the case of a disputed processing fee:

(i) If the applicant pays the full disputed processing fee, the authorized officer shall continue to process the application during the supervisory officer's review of the disputed fee, unless the applicant requests that the processing cease.

(ii) If the applicant fails to pay the full disputed processing fee, the authorized officer shall suspend further processing of the application pending the supervisory officer's determination of an appropriate processing fee and the applicant's payment of that fee.

(3) In the case of a disputed monitoring fee:

(i) If the applicant or holder pays the full disputed monitoring fee, the authorized officer shall issue the authorization or allow the use and occupancy to continue during the supervisory officer's review of the disputed fee, unless the applicant or holder elects not to exercise the authorized use and occupancy of National Forest System lands during the review period.

(ii) If the applicant or holder fails to pay the full disputed monitoring fee, the authorized officer shall not issue the applicant a new authorization or shall suspend the holder's existing authorization in whole or in part pending the supervisory officer's determination of an appropriate monitoring fee and the applicant's or holder's payment of that fee.

(4) The authorized officer's immediate supervisor shall render a decision on a disputed processing or monitoring fee within 30 calendar days of receipt of the written request from the applicant or holder. The supervisory officer's decision is the final level of administrative review. The dispute shall be decided in favor of the applicant or holder if the supervisory officer does not respond to the written request within 30 days of receipt.
