
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 251 - LAND USES
#### Subpart B - Special Uses
##### ยง 251.60 Termination, revocation, and suspension.
###### Termination.

(iii)For all special uses except noncommercial group uses, a special use authorization terminates when, by its terms, a fixed or agreed-upon condition, event, or time occurs. Termination of a special use authorization under this paragraph does not involve agency action and is not subject to administrative or judicial review.

(b) For purposes of this section, the authorized officer is that person who issues the authorization or that officer's successor.

(c) A right-of-way authorization granted to another Federal agency will be limited, suspended, revoked, or terminated only with that agency's concurrence.

(d) A right-of-way authorization serving another Federal agency will be limited, suspended, revoked, or terminated only after advance notice to, and consultation with, that agency.

(e) Except when immediate suspension pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section is indicated, the authorized officer shall give the holder written notice of the grounds for suspension or revocation under paragraph (a) of this section and reasonable time to cure any noncompliance, prior to suspension or revocation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) Immediate suspension of a special use authorization, in whole or in part, may be required when the authorized officer deems it necessary to protect the public health or safety or the environment. In any such case, within 48 hours of a request of the holder, the superior of the authorized officer shall arrange for an on-site review of the adverse conditions with the holder. Following this review, the superior officer shall take prompt action to affirm, modify, or cancel the suspension.

(g) The authorized officer may suspend or revoke permits or easements issued under ยง 251.53(e) or easements issued under ยง 251.53(l) of this subpart under the Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Administrative Proceedings instituted by the Secretary under 7 CFR 1.130 through 1.151.

(h)(1) The Chief may revoke any easement granted under the provisions of the Act of October 13, 1964, 78 Stat. 1089, 16 U.S.C. 534:

(i) By consent of the owner of the easement;

(ii) By condemnation; or

(iii) Upon abandonment after a 5-year period of nonuse by the owner of the easement.

(2) Before any such easement is revoked upon abandonment, the owner of the easement shall be given notice and, upon the owner's request made within 60 days after receipt of the notice, shall be given an appeal in accordance with the provisions of 36 CFR part 214.

(i) Upon revocation or termination of a special use authorization, the holder must remove within a reasonable time the structures and improvements and shall restore the site to a condition satisfactory to the authorized officer, unless the requirement to remove structures or improvements is otherwise waived in writing or in the authorization. If the holder fails to remove the structures or improvements within a reasonable period, as determined by the authorized officer, they shall become the property of the United States, but holder shall remain liable for the costs of removal and site restoration.
