
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.20 Fire Island National Seashore.
##### et seq.

(i) "Act" means the Act of September 11, 1964 (Pub. L. 88-587, 78 Stat. 928, 16 U.S.C. 459e), or as the same may be amended or supplemented, which authorizes the establishment of the Seashore.

(ii) "Seashore lands" means any lands or interests in lands owned or hereafter acquired by the United States within the authorized boundaries of the Seashore. It shall also mean any lands or interests in lands owned by the United States which are on the island, outside the authorized boundaries of the Seashore, and managed for recreational purposes by the National Park Service pursuant to an agreement with another Federal agency.

(iii) "Island" means the entirety of Fire Island, New York; without regard for property ownership, jurisdiction, or the boundaries of Fire Island National Seashore.

(iv) "Mainland" means the land of Long Island, N.Y.

(v) "Motor vehicle" means a device which is self-propelled by internal combustion or electrical energy and in, upon, or by which any person or material is or may be transported on land.

(vi) "Dune crossing" means an access route over a primary dune which has been designated and appropriately posted.

(vii) "Public utility vehicle" means any motor vehicle operated and owned or leased by a public utility or public service company franchised or licensed to supply, on the island, electricity, water, or telephone service, while that vehicle is in use for supplying such service.

(viii) "Year-round residents" means those persons who are legally domiciled on the island and who, in addition, physically reside in their fixed and permanent homes on the island continuously, except for brief and occasional absences, for 12 months of the year.

(ix) "Part-time residents" means those persons who physically and continuously reside in their homes on the Island for less than 12 months of the year.

(x) "Essential service vehicle" means any motor vehicle other than a public utility vehicle whose use on the Island is essential to the continued use of residences on the Island. This may include vehicles used for the following purposes, while in use for such purposes:

(A) Transporting heating fuel and bottled gas.

(B) Sanitation or refuse removal.

(xi) "Official vehicle" means any motor vehicle operated and owned or leased by a Federal, State, or local governmental agency, except for law enforcement vehicles and fire fighting apparatus, while that vehicle is being used to transact the official business of that agency.

(xii) "Construction and business vehicle" means any motor vehicle other than a public utility vehicle or essential service vehicle involved in construction, maintenance, or repair of structures on the Island or the transportation of materials or supplies to retail business establishments on the Island.
