
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.20 Fire Island National Seashore.
##### Permit limitations.

(9)(i) No permit issued under these regulations shall be valid for more than one year. The superintendent may issue permits for lesser periods, as appropriate for the travel required or the time of year at which a permit is issued.

(ii) Permits for public utility, service, and official vehicles shall specify the number of vehicles and identify each vehicle whose use is authorized thereby. Permits for other motor vehicles will apply only to the single, specific vehicle for which issued.

(iii) Permits are not transferable to another motor vehicle or to a new owner or lessee of the vehicle for which issued.

(iv) Permits may specify a single or multiple uses or purposes for which travel on Seashore lands is permitted. The limitations and restrictions on authorized travel set forth in paragraph (a)(10) of this section shall apply, however, depending upon the specific use or purpose for which a permitted motor vehicle is being utilized at the time of travel.

(v) Permits may contain such other limitations or conditions as the Superintendent deems necessary for resource protection, public safety, or visitor enjoyment. Limitations may include, but will not be limited to, restrictions on locations where vehicle travel is authorized and times, dates, or frequency of travel, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (a).
