
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.20 Fire Island National Seashore.
##### Exceptions.

(iii)(A) From the Monday after Labor Day through the Friday before Memorial Day, a year-round resident may make no more than two round trips per day for residential purposes.

(B) The Seashore is closed to all recreational vehicles from January 1 through March 31 and from June 14 through September 14. During the periods when the Seashore is open for recreational vehicle traffic, an operator of a recreational vehicle may make no more than two round trips per day. On weekend days in September and October, a recreational vehicle may enter the Island until 9:00 a.m. A recreational vehicle that has entered the Island may then remain or may depart but may not re-enter the Island until after 6:00 p.m.

(iv) The Superintendent may, for situations where the restrictions in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) would create a severe hardship, authorize additional trips or travel at other hours.

(v) In the case of public utility, service, and official vehicles for which permits have been issued, the Superintendent may authorize travel on Seashore lands at any time that he determines travel by such vehicles is essential, notwithstanding the above limitations and restrictions on authorized travel.

(vi) Recurring travel conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(10) (iv) or (v) of this section is authorized only pursuant to the terms and conditions of the original permit issued by the Superintendent; single occasion travel is authorized only pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit issued by the Superintendent on a case by case basis.

(vii) In an emergency involving the protection of life or a threatened substantial loss of property, travel by a motor vehicle which is under permit is authorized at any time.

(viii) The Superintendent may suspend any travel by motor vehicle otherwise permitted under this paragraph (a) when in his judgment such travel is inconsistent with the purpose of the Act or when such factors as weather, tides, or other physical conditions render travel hazardous or would endanger Seashore resources. Such suspension of travel shall be announced by the posting of appropriate signs or verbal order of the Superintendent.

(ix) In accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 1.5 of this chapter, the Superintendent may establish a limit on the number of motor vehicles permitted on any portion of, or the entirety of, the Seashore lands at any one time when such limits are required in the interests of public safety, protection of the resources of the area, or coordination with other visitor uses.

(x) The provisions of this paragraph (a)(10) shall not apply to firefighting apparatus or to motor vehicles operated and owned or leased by a duly constituted law enforcement agency having jurisdiction within the Seashore.
