
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 261 - PROHIBITIONS
#### Subpart B - Prohibitions in Areas Designated by Order
##### ยง 261.50 Orders.

(a) The Chief, each Regional Forester, each Experiment Station Director, the Administrator of the Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit and each Forest Supervisor may issue orders which close or restrict the use of described areas within the area over which he has jurisdiction. An order may close an area to entry or may restrict the use of an area by applying any or all of the prohibitions authorized in this subpart or any portion thereof.

(b) The Chief, each Regional Forester, each Experiment Station Director, the Administrator of the Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit and each Forest Supervisor may issue orders which close or restrict the use of any National Forest System road or trail within the area over which he has jurisdiction.

(c) Each order shall:

(1) For orders issued under paragraph (a) of this section, describe the area to which the order applies;

(2) For orders issued under paragraph (b) of this section, describe the road or trail to which the order applies;

(3) Specify the times during which the prohibitions apply if applied only during limited times;

(4) State each prohibition which is applied; and

(5) Be posted in accordance with ยง 261.51.

(d) The prohibitions which are applied by an order are supplemental to the general prohibitions in Subpart A.

(e) An order may exempt any of the following persons from any of the prohibitions contained in the order:

(1) Persons with a permit specifically authorizing the otherwise prohibited act or omission.

(2) Owners or lessees of land in the area;

(3) Residents in the area;

(4) Any Federal, State, or local officer, or member of an organized rescue or fire fighting force in the performance of an official duty; and

(5) Persons engaged in a business, trade, or occupation in the area.

(6) Any other person meeting exemption requirements specified in the order.

(f) Any person wishing to use a National Forest System road or trail or a portion of the National Forest System, should contact the Forest Supervisor, Director, Administrator, or District Ranger to ascertain the special restrictions which may be applicable thereto.
