
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 261 - PROHIBITIONS
#### Subpart C - Prohibitions in Regions
##### ยง 261.70 Issuance of regulations.

(a) Pursuant to 7 CFR 2.60, the Chief, and each Regional Forester, to whom the Chief has delegated authority, may issue regulations prohibiting acts or omissions within all or any part of the area over which he has jurisdiction, for one or more of the following purposes:

(1) Fire prevention or control.

(2) Disease prevention or control.

(3) Protection of property, roads, or trails.

(4) Protection of threatened, endangered, rare, unique, or vanishing species of plants, animals, birds or fish, or special biological communities.

(5) Protection of objects or places of historical, archaeological, geological or paleontological interest.

(6) Protection of scientific experiments or investigations.

(7) Public safety.

(8) Protection of health.

(9) Establishing reasonable rules of public conduct.

(b) Regulations issued under this subpart shall not be contrary to or duplicate any prohibition which is established under existing regulations.

(c) In issuing any regulations under paragraph (a) of this section, the issuing officer shall follow 5 U.S.C. 553.

(d) In a situation when the issuing officer determines that a notice of proposed rule making and public participation thereon is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, he shall issue, with the concurrence of the Chief, an interim regulation containing an expiration date.

(e) No interim regulation issued under paragraph (d) of this section will be effective for more than 90 days unless readopted as a permanent rule after a notice of proposed rule making under 5 U.S.C. 553 (b) and (c).
