
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.20 Fire Island National Seashore.
##### Operation of Seaplane and Amphibious Aircraft.

(b)(1) Aircraft may be operated on the waters of the Great South Bay and the Atlantic Ocean within the boundaries of Fire Island National Seashore, except as restricted in ยง 2.17 of this chapter and by the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the waters of the Great South Bay and the Atlantic Ocean within the boundaries of Fire Island National Seashore are closed to take-offs, landings, beachings, approaches or other aircraft operations at the following locations:

(i) Within 1000 feet of any shoreline, including islands.

(ii) Within 1000 feet of lands within the boundaries of the incorporated villages of Ocean Beach and Saltaire and the village of Seaview.

(3) Aircraft may taxi on routes perpendicular to the shoreline to and from docking facilities at the following locations:

(i) Kismet-located at approximate longitude 73&#xB0; 12&#x2032; and approximate latitude 40&#xB0; 38&#x2032;.

(ii) Lonelyville-located at approximate longitude 73&#xB0; 11&#x2032; and approximate latitude 40&#xB0; 38&#x2032;.

(iii) Atlantique-located at approximate longitude 73&#xB0; 10&#x2032; and approximate latitude 40&#xB0; 38&#x2032;.

(iv) Fire Island Pines-located at approximate longitude 73&#xB0; 04&#x2032; and approximate latitude 40&#xB0; 40&#x2032;.

(v) Water Island-located at approximate longitude 73&#xB0; 02&#x2032; and approximate latitude 40&#xB0; 40&#x2032;.

(vi) Davis Park-located at approximate longitude 73&#xB0; 00&#x2032; and approximate latitude 40&#xB0; 41&#x2032;.

(4) Aircraft operation in the vicinity of marinas, boats, boat docks, floats, piers, ramps, bird nesting areas, or bathing beaches must be performed with due caution and regard for persons and property and in accordance with any posted signs or uniform waterway markers.

(5) Aircraft are prohibited from landing or taking off from any land surfaces, any estuary, lagoon, marsh, pond, tidal flat, paved surface, or any waters temporarily covering a beach; except with prior authorization of the Superintendent. Permission shall be based on the need for emergency service, resource protection, resource management or law enforcement.

(6) Aircraft operations shall comply with all Federal, State and county ordinances and rules for operations as may be indicated in available navigation charts or other aids to aviation which are available for the Fire Island area.
