
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 262 - LAW ENFORCEMENT SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Administrative Impoundment and Removal
##### ยง 262.10 Impoundment and disposal of unauthorized livestock.

Unauthorized livestock or livestock in excess of those authorized by a grazing permit on the National Forest System, which are not removed therefrom within the periods prescribed by this regulation, may be impounded and disposed of by a forest officer as provided herein.

(a) When a Forest officer determines that such livestock use is occurring, has definite knowledge of the kind of livestock, and knows the name and address of the owners, such livestock may be impounded any time five days after written notice of intent to impound such livestock is mailed by certified or registered mail or personally delivered to such owners.

(b) When a Forest officer determines that such livestock use is occurring, but does not have complete knowledge of the kind of livestock, or if the name of the owner is unknown, such livestock may be impounded any time 15 days after the date a notice of intent to impound livestock is first published in a local newspaper and posted at the county courthouse and in one or more local post offices. The notice will identify the area in which it will be effective.

(c) Unauthorized livestock or livestock in excess of those authorized by a grazing permit on National Forest System which are owned by persons given notice under paragraph (a) of this section, and any such livestock in areas for which a notice has been posted and published under paragraph (b) of this section, may be impounded without further notice any time within the 12-month period immediately following the effective date of the notice or notices given under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(d) Following the impoundment of livestock, a notice of sale of impounded livestock will be published in a local newspaper and posted at the county courthouse and in one or more local post offices. The notice will describe the livestock and specify the date, time, and place of the sale. The date shall be at least five days after the publication and posting of such notice.

(e) The owner may redeem the livestock any time before the date and time set for the sale by submitting proof of ownership and paying for all expenses incurred by the United States in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock. However, when the impoundment costs exceed fair market value a minimum acceptable redemption price at fair market value may be established for each head of livestock.
