
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.21 John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Memorial Parkway.
##### Where may I operate my snowmobile in the Parkway?

(5)(i) You may operate your snowmobile only upon designated oversnow routes established within the Parkway in accordance with ยง 2.18(c) of this chapter. The following oversnow routes are so designated for snowmobile use:

(A) On U.S. Highway 89/191/287 from Flagg Ranch to the northern boundary of the Parkway.

(B) Grassy Lake Road from Flagg Ranch to the western boundary of the Parkway.

(C) Flagg Ranch developed area.

(ii) The Superintendent may open or close these routes, or portions thereof, for snowmobile travel after taking into consideration the location of wintering wildlife, appropriate snow cover, public safety, and other factors. The Superintendent will provide notice of such opening or closing by one or more of the methods listed in ยง 1.7(a) of this chapter.

(iii) The route described in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section is subject to the air and sound emissions requirements, guiding requirements, and daily entry limits described in ยง 7.13(l) of this part.

(iv) This paragraph (a)(5) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.

(v) Maps detailing the designated oversnow routes will be available from Park Headquarters.
