
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart B - Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area
##### § 292.12 General provisions; procedures.
###### Approval of zoning ordinance and development plans.

(a)(1) All validly adopted zoning ordinances and amendments thereto pertaining to the Shasta and Clair Engle-Lewiston Units may be submitted by the county of origin to the Secretary for written approval relative to their conformance with the applicable standards of §§ 292.11 to 292.13. Within 60 days following submission, the county will be notified of the Secretary's approval or disapproval of the zoning ordinances or amendments thereto. If more than 60 days are required, the county will be notified of the expected delay and of the additional time deemed necessary to reach a decision. The Secretary's approval shall remain effective so long as the zoning ordinances or amendments thereto remain in effect as approved.

(2) Development plans pertaining to unimproved property within the Shasta and Clair Engle-Lewiston Units may be submitted by the owner to the Secretary for determination as to whether they conform with approved zoning ordinances and whether the planned use and development would serve the Act. Within 30 days following submission of such plans the Secretary will approve or disapprove the plans or, if more than 30 days are required, will notify the applicant of the expected delay and of the additional time deemed necessary.
