
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart C - Sawtooth National Recreation Area - Private Lands
##### ยง 292.16 Standards.
###### Designated communities.

(d)(1) The following standards are established until replaced as provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(i) No buildings or structures, or part thereof, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, moved, or used for any purpose, except in conformance with the standards established herein.

(ii) No excavation or topographic change, except that required for foundations, utilities, or roads, that would modify or change the scenic beauty of natural hillsides or mountain slope lands.

(iii) Minimum 100-foot frontage on new building sites.

(iv) All new buildings set in 10 feet from each side of property line.

(v) All new buildings set back 20 feet from front property line.

(vi) Only one single-family dwelling for each building site or lot.

(vii) No new building to exceed two stories in height as determined from ground level.

(viii) No building or structure erected with foundation pillars or stilts that exceeds 36 inches above ground level. Pillars or stilts, if used, must be enclosed.

(ix) Minimum of 750 square feet for new residences.

(x) All new buildings constructed of logs, shakes, rough lumber, rough wood, and native stone.

(xi) Mobile or semimobile homes permitted only in existing mobile home parks.

(xii) Nonreflective roofs on new buildings.

(xiii) All new steps and walks constructed of wood.

(xiv) Paints or stains to be of earth tones common to the area.

(xv) All buildings and structures, including fences, to be maintained in a useable and serviceable condition or removed. Properties to be maintained in a clean and orderly condition.

(xvi) Existing plus new buildings or structures cannot occupy more than 30 percent of the land surface on a lot less than 20,000 square feet in area. On any lot larger than 20,000 square feet, existing plus new buildings cannot occupy more than 6,500 square feet. Existing properties exceeding this amount as of the effective date of these regulations may not be further developed.

(xvii) The standards in paragraphs (d)(1) (v), (vi), (ix), and (xvi) of this section shall not apply to properties developed for commercial purposes.

(2) The Area Ranger shall cooperate with each designated community in the preparation of a community development plan and implementing ordinances which will assure that use and development of the private properties within the community will be consistent with the purposes for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established and with the overall general plan of the Recreation Area. The Secretary may then, by amendment of these regulations, replace the standards adopted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section with the standards set forth in such community development plan and implementing ordinances as the standards applicable to that designated community.
