
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart C - Sawtooth National Recreation Area - Private Lands
##### ยง 292.16 Standards.
###### Not more than two outbuildings with each residence.

(ii)Aggregate square foot area of outbuildings not to exceed 850 square feet and to be limited to one story not more than 22 feet in height.

(iii) Dwelling size not less than 750 square feet of floor space.

(iv) Building architecture compatible with location and the pastoral environment, rustic in nature, harmoniously colored or natural wood finish or suitable wood substitutes, nonreflective roofs and sidings.

(v) Height of buildings to be in keeping with site characteristics and normally not exceeding on-site tree height, or 30 feet.

(vi) Sufficient setback of buildings from centerline of public roads for safety and unhampered traffic flow.

(vii) Minimum building setback from property line-10 feet.

(3) No excavation or topographic change except that required for buildings, roads, and utilities.

(4) Removal of live trees and other vegetation limited to that necessary to accommodate buildings and roads to allow installation of utilities.

(5) Roads designed, located, and constructed to minimize adverse esthetic impact and soil erosion.

(6) Owner identification and sale or rental signs not to exceed 2 square feet in size.

(7) Buildings and structures, including fences, to be maintained in a usable and serviceable condition or removed.

(8) No further reduction in size of residential ownerships except that which will not impair the objectives for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established. A certification will be issued pursuant to ยง 292.15(d) upon application in such cases.
