
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart C - Sawtooth National Recreation Area - Private Lands
##### ยง 292.16 Standards.
###### Agriculture.

(g)(1) Only structures which do not substantially impair or detract from the scenic, natural, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values of the area and which are necessary for ranching or dude ranching such as dwellings, barns, storage buildings, fences, corrals, irrigation facilities, roads, and utilities.

(2) Buildings to be ranch-type character with log or other rustic exterior with harmoniously colored or natural wood finish and nonreflective surfaces.

(3) Fences and other improvements to be in harmony with the western ranching atmosphere.

(4) Minimum setback of new buildings to be 150 feet from public roads where determined feasible by the Area Ranger.

(5) No further reduction in size of agricultural ownerships except that which will not impair the objectives for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established. A certification will be issued pursuant to ยง 292.15(d) upon application in such cases.

(6) No signs, billboards or advertising devices except a property identification sign and one sale or rental sign not to exceed 2 square feet in area, harmonious in design and color with the surroundings. Signs not complying with this standard may be approved by certifications issued pursuant to ยง 292.15(d) in special cases.

(7) Any tree removal and related slash disposal and soil erosion prevention measures to be conducted in a manner that will minimize detrimental effects to the site and adjoining lands.

(8) The general topography of the landscape to be unaltered except for incidental excavation or topographic change required by ranching activities.

(9) Structures and improvements, including fences, to be maintained in usable condition or removed. Those recognized as having historic or esthetic value may remain.

(10) Roads to be designed, located and constructed to minimize esthetic impact and soil movement.

(11) Agricultural practices to be limited to hay production and pasture and range grazing in a manner which does not degrade water quality or result in accelerated soil erosion.
