
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart D - Sawtooth National Recreation Area - Federal Lands
##### ยง 292.18 Mineral resources.
###### Bond requirements.

(g)(1) An operator shall furnish a bond, in the amount determined by the Area Ranger to be appropriate for reclamation of the disturbed surface area, prior to the commencement of operations. In lieu of a bond, the operator may deposit into a Federal depository, as directed by the Forest Service, cash in an amount equal to the required dollar amount of the bond or negotiable securities of the United States having market value at the time of deposit or not less than the required dollar amount of the bond.

(2) When the reclamation of the project, or portions thereof, has been completed, the operator will notify the Area Ranger who will examine the area to determine whether the reclamation is acceptable. When the Area Ranger has accepted as completed any portion of the reclamation, he shall reduce proportionately the amount of bond thereafter to be required with respect to the remaining reclamation. However, the operator will not be released from liability under the bond for the amount which may be necessary to revegetate each planting area for a minimum period of at least 5 years after the first efforts at revegetation if those initial efforts are unsuccessful.

(3) If the Area Ranger determines that revegetation is likely to occur before the expiration of such minimum period, he may release the operator from the extended liability under the bond for revegetation of planting area.
