
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart E - Hells Canyon National Recreation Area - Private Lands
##### ยง 292.23 Standards of compatible land use and development.
###### Standards applicable to all private lands.

(a)As of June 13, 1994, the use and development of private lands in all land categories within the HCNRA is deemed compatible with the purposes for which the HCNRA was established, if the use and development of such lands meets the following standards:

(1) Use and development conforms to applicable local, state, and federal environmental, natural resource, cultural resource, and land use development law.

(2) All new or replacement structures are screened and/or constructed of materials that blend with the natural environment, except where structures typify the architectural style and materials of a significant historic era such as pre-World War II. Screening is not required, however, for new or replacement structures that are associated with an existing unscreened structure or structures that were not screened at the time this rule became effective.

(3) No public or commercial solid waste disposal sites or hazardous substance disposal sites are located on private lands within the HCNRA.

(4) All new or replacement utility lines are placed underground where ground conditions and topography permit. This standard does not prevent or impair routine maintenance of utility lines or related structures in existence prior to June 13, 1994.

(5) No new or replacement structures are developed within the boundaries of the Hells Canyon Wilderness, provided that existing structures may be repaired and/or maintained.

(6) Significant historic, archaeologic, or paleontologic sites are protected.

(7) Sites used for the extraction of common mineral materials, such as gravel, for construction and maintenance purposes on all except designated mining lands, are screened where possible, and are not in excess of 2 acres in size.

(8) New recreational facilities enhance and are compatible with the purpose of the Act.
