
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart F - Hells Canyon National Recreation Area - Federal Lands
##### ยง 292.45 Use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft.

The standards and guidelines of this section apply to the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on rivers within the HCNRA.

(a) The use of non-motorized rivercraft may be permitted subject to restrictions on size, type of craft, numbers, duration, seasons, or other matters which may be deemed by the authorized officer to be necessary to ensure the safe use and enjoyment of the rivers: Provided, that where wild and scenic rivers are concerned, the authorized officer may impose such additional terms and conditions as may be necessary to protect and enhance the values for which the river was designated.

(b) The use of motorized rivercraft is prohibited except on the Snake River and that portion of the Salmon River in the HCNRA administered by the Forest Service where such activity may be permitted subject to restrictions on size, type of craft, numbers, noise limits, duration, seasons or other matters which may be deemed by the authorized officer necessary for the safe use and enjoyment of the rivers: Provided, that where wild and scenic rivers are involved, the authorized officer may impose such additional terms and conditions as may be necessary to protect and enhance the values for which the river was designated.

(c) The use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft is subject to all federal and state boating registration and safety laws.

(d) The use of motorized or non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake River and that portion of the Salmon River in the HCNRA administered by the Forest Service requires prior written authorization from the authorized officer.

(e) In authorizing the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake River, the authorized officer must reasonably accommodate both private and commercial users of each type of rivercraft.

(f) In authorizing the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake River, the authorized officer must ensure that the carrying capacity of the river is not exceeded.

(g) In authorizing the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake River, the authorized officer shall seek to minimize, where practicable, conflicts between motorized and non-motorized rivercraft users and between both types of rivercraft users and all other users of the river.
