
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart F - Hells Canyon National Recreation Area - Federal Lands
##### ยง 292.47 Mining activities.
###### Other Lands.

(a)The standards and guidelines of this section apply to mining activities in the Other Lands category of the HCNRA.

(1) All mining activities are prohibited subject to valid existing rights as of December 31, 1975.

(2) The impact of mining activities including, but not limited to, drilling and the development of ingress and egress routes, must be minimized and directed away from Wilderness Lands and Wild and Scenic Rivers to the extent practicable.

(3) Mineral materials including, but not limited to common varieties of gravel, sand, or stone, may be used only within the HCNRA for the purpose of construction and maintenance of facilities including, but not limited to, roads, airfields, trails, and recreation developments.

(4) Sources of mineral materials should be located outside the HCNRA. Sources for mineral materials that may be used to benefit the HCNRA may be located inside the HCNRA if the cost of obtaining the materials outside the HCNRA adds significantly to the costs of the materials, or the transportation of mineral materials from outside the HCNRA presents a safety hazard. When mineral materials are obtained from inside the HCNRA, the environmental effects at the source of extraction must be mitigated by site reclamation upon the termination of the extraction activity. Site reclamation may include contouring the land, re-establishing vegetation, and other measures deemed appropriate by the authorized officer to blend the site into the surrounding environment to the extent practicable. The HCNRA shall not be the source of mineral materials for use outside the HCNRA for projects that do not directly benefit the HCNRA.
