
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 292 - NATIONAL RECREATION AREAS
#### Subpart G - Smith River National Recreation Area
##### Outstanding Mineral Rights
###### ยง 292.67 Operating plan approval - outstanding mineral rights.

(a) Upon receipt of an operating plan, the authorized officer must review the information related to the ownership of the outstanding mineral rights and notify the operator that:

(1) Sufficient information on ownership of the outstanding mineral rights has been provided; or

(2) Sufficient information on ownership of outstanding mineral rights has not been provided, including an explanation of the specific information that still needs to be provided, and that no further action on the plan of operations will be taken until the authorized officer's receipt of the specified information.

(b) If the review shows outstanding mineral rights have not been verified, the authorized officer must notify the operator in writing that outstanding mineral rights have not been verified, explain the reasons for such a finding, and that the proposed mineral operation cannot be conducted.

(c) If the review shows that outstanding mineral rights have been verified, the authorized officer must notify the operator in writing that outstanding mineral rights have been verified and that review of the proposed operating plan will proceed.

(d) The authorized officer shall review the operating plan to determine if all of the following criteria are met:

(1) The operating plan is consistent with the rights granted by the deed;

(2) The operating plan is consistent with the Six Rivers National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan; and

(3) The operating plan uses only so much of the surface as is necessary for the proposed mineral operations.

(e) Upon completion of the review of the operating plan, the authorized officer shall notify the operator in writing of one of the following:

(1) The operating plan meets all of the criteria of paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section and, therefore, is approved;

(2) The operating plan does not meet one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section. Where feasible, the authorized officer may indicate changes to the operating plan that would satisfy the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section and, thus, if accepted by the operator, would result in approval of the operating plan.

(f) To conduct mineral operations beyond those described in an approved operating plan, the owner or lessee must submit, in writing, an amended operating plan to the authorized officer at the earliest practicable date. New operations covered by the proposed amendment may not begin until the authorized officer has reviewed and responded in writing to the proposed amendment. The authorized officer shall review a proposed amendment of an approved operating plan to determine that the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section are met.
