
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 293 - WILDERNESS - PRIMITIVE AREAS
#### ยง 293.5 Establishment, modification, or elimination.

National Forest Wilderness will be established, modified, or eliminated in accordance with the provisions of sections 3(b), (d), and (e) of the Wilderness Act. The Chief, Forest Service, shall arrange for issuing public notices, appointing hearing officers, holding public hearings, and notifying the Governors of the States concerned and the governing board of each county in which the lands involved are located.

(a) At least 30 days' public notice shall be given of the proposed action and intent to hold a public hearing. Public notice shall include publication in theand in a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the land involved.

(b) Public hearings shall be held at locations convenient to the area affected. If the land involved is in more than one State, at least one hearing shall be held in each State in which a portion of the land lies.

(c) A record of the public hearing and the views submitted subsequent to public notice and prior to the close of the public hearing shall be included with any recommendations to the President and to the Congress with respect to any such action.

(d) At least 30 days before the date of the public hearing, suitable advice shall be furnished to the Governor of each State and the governing board of each county or, in Alaska, the borough in which the lands are located, and Federal departments and agencies concerned; and such officers or Federal agencies shall be invited to submit their views on the proposed action at the hearing or in writing by not later than 30 days following the date of the hearing. Any views submitted in response to such advice with respect to any proposed Wilderness action shall be included with any recommendations to the President and to the Congress with respect to any such action.
