
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 294 - SPECIAL AREAS
#### Subpart A - Miscellaneous Provisions
##### ยง 294.1 Recreation areas.

Suitable areas of national forest land, other than wilderness or wild areas, which should be managed principally for recreation use may be given special classification as follows:

(a) Areas which should be managed principally for recreation use substantially in their natural condition and on which, in the discretion of the officer making the classification, certain other uses may or may not be permitted may be approved and classified by the Chief of the Forest Service or by such officers as he may designate if the particular area is less than 100,000 acres. Areas of 100,000 acres or more will be approved and classified by the Secretary of Agriculture.

(b) Areas which should be managed for public recreation requiring development and substantial improvements may be given special classification as public recreation areas. Areas in single tracts of not more than 160 acres may be approved and classified by the Chief of the Forest Service or by such officers as he may designate. Areas in excess of 160 acres will be classified by the Secretary of Agriculture. Classification hereunder may include areas used or selected to be used for the development and maintenance as camp grounds, picnic grounds, organization camps, resorts, public service sites (such as for restaurants, filling stations, stores, horse and boat liveries, garages, and similar types of public service accommodations), bathing beaches, winter sports areas, lodges, and similar facilities and appurtenant structures needed by the public to enjoy the recreation resources of the national forests. The boundaries of all areas so classified shall be clearly marked on the ground and notices of such classification shall be posted at conspicuous places thereon. Areas classified under this section shall thereby be set apart and reserved for public recreation use and such classification shall constitute a formal closing of the area to any use or occupancy inconsistent with the classification.
