
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 294 - SPECIAL AREAS
#### Subpart C - Idaho Roadless Area Management
##### ยง 294.28 Scope and applicability.

(a) After October 16, 2008 subpart B of this part shall have no effect within the State of Idaho.

(b) This subpart does not revoke, suspend, or modify any permit, contract, or other legal instrument authorizing the occupancy and use of National Forest System land issued prior to October 16, 2008.

(c) This subpart does not revoke, suspend, or modify any project or activity decision made prior to October 16, 2008.

(d) The provisions set forth in this subpart shall take precedence over any inconsistent land management plan component. Land management plan components that are not inconsistent with this subpart will continue to provide guidance for projects and activities within Idaho Roadless Areas; as shall those related to protection of threatened and endangered species. This subpart does not compel the amendment or revision of any land management plan.

(e) The prohibitions and permissions set forth in the subpart are not subject to reconsideration, revision, or rescission in subsequent project decisions or land and resource management plan amendments or revisions undertaken pursuant to 36 CFR part 219.

(f) This subpart shall not apply to Forest Plan Special Areas within Idaho Roadless Areas.

(g) Nothing in this subpart waives any applicable requirements regarding site-specific environmental analysis, public involvement, consultation with Tribes and other agencies, or compliance with applicable laws.

(h) This subpart does not modify the unique relationship between the United States and Indian Tribes that requires the Federal Government to work with federally recognized Indian Tribes government-to-government as provided for in treaties, laws or Executive orders. Nothing herein limits or modifies prior existing tribal rights, including those involving hunting, fishing, gathering, and protection of cultural and spiritual sites.

(i) If any provision of the rules in this subpart or its application to any person or to certain circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the regulations in this subpart and their application remain in force.
