
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter II - Forest Service, Department of Agriculture
### PART 296 - PROTECTION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES: UNIFORM REGULATIONS
#### ยง 296.21 Surveys and Schedules.
##### et seq.

(a) The Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and Defense and the Chairman of the Board of the Tennessee Valley Authority will develop plans for surveying lands under each agency's control to determine the nature and extent of archaeological resources pursuant to section 14(a) of the Act. Such activities should be consistent with Federal agency planning policies and other historic preservation program responsibilities required by 16 U.S.C. 470Survey plans prepared under this section will be designed to comply with the purpose of the Act regarding the protection of archaeological resources.

(b) The Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and Defense and the Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority will prepare schedules for surveying lands under each agency's control that are likely to contain the most scientifically valuable archaeological resources pursuant to section 14(b) of the Act. Such schedules will be developed based on objectives and information identified in survey plans described in paragraph (a) of this section and implemented systematically to cover areas where the most scientifically valuable archaeological resources are likely to exist.

(c) Guidance for the activities undertaken as part of paragraphs (a) through (b) of this section is provided by the Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation.

(d) Other Federal land managing agencies are encouraged to develop plans for surveying lands under their jurisdictions and prepare schedules for surveying to improve protection and management of archaeological resources.

(e) The Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and Defense and the Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority will develop a system for documenting and reporting suspected violations of the various provisions of the Act. This system will reference a set of procedures for use by officers, employees, or agents of Federal agencies to assist them in recognizing violations, documenting relevant evidence, and reporting assembled information to the appropriate authorities. Methods employed to document and report such violations should be compatible with existing agency reporting systems for documenting violations of other appropriate Federal statutes and regulations. Summary information to be included in the Secretary's comprehensive report will be based upon the system developed by each Federal land manager for documenting suspected violations.
