
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.1 Policy.

(a) It is the policy of the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to manage the natural, cultural and developed resources of each project in the public interest, providing the public with safe and healthful recreational opportunities while protecting and enhancing these resources.

(b) Unless otherwise indicated in this part, the term "District Commander" shall include the authorized representatives of the District Commander.

(c) The term "project" or "water resources development project" refers to the water areas of any water resources development project administered by the Chief of Engineers, without regard to ownership of underlying land, to all lands owned in fee by the Federal Government and to all facilities therein or thereon of any such water resources development project.

(d) All water resources development projects open for public use shall be available to the public without regard to sex, race, color, creed, age, nationality or place of origin. No lessee, licensee, or concessionaire providing a service to the public shall discriminate against any person because of sex, race, creed, color, age, nationality or place of origin in the conduct of the operations under the lease, license or concession contract.

(e) In addition to the regulations in this part 327, all applicable Federal, state and local laws and regulations remain in full force and effect on project lands or waters which are outgranted by the District Commander by lease, license or other written agreement.

(f) The regulations in this part 327 shall be deemed to apply to those lands and waters which are subject to treaties and Federal laws and regulations concerning the rights of Indian Nations and which lands and waters are incorporated, in whole or in part, within water resources development projects administered by the Chief of Engineers, to the extent that the regulations in this part 327 are not inconsistent with such treaties and Federal laws and regulations.

(g) Any violation of any section of this part 327 shall constitute a separate violation for each calendar day in which it occurs.

(h) For the purposes of this part 327, the operator of any vehicle, vessel or aircraft as described in this part, shall be presumed to be responsible for its use on project property. In the event where an operator cannot be determined, the owner of the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft, whether attended or unattended, will be presumed responsible. Unless proven otherwise, such presumption will be sufficient to issue a citation for the violation of regulations applicable to the use of such vehicle, vessel or aircraft as provided for in ยง 327.25.

(i) For the purposes of this part 327, the registered user of a campsite, picnic area, or other facility shall be presumed to be responsible for its use. Unless proven otherwise, such presumption will be sufficient to issue a citation for the violation of regulations applicable to the use of such facilities as provided for in ยง 327.25.
