
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.3 Vessels.

(a) This section pertains to all vessels or watercraft, including, but not limited to, powerboats, cruisers, houseboats, sailboats, rowboats, canoes, kayaks, personal watercraft, and any other such equipment capable of navigation on water or ice, whether in motion or at rest.

(b) The placement and/or operation of any vessel or watercraft for a fee or profit upon project waters or lands is prohibited except as authorized by permit, lease, license, or concession contract with the Department of the Army. This paragraph shall not apply to the operation of commercial tows or passenger carrying vessels not based at a Corps project which utilize project waters as a link in continuous transit over navigable waters of the United States.

(c) Vessels or other watercraft may be operated on the project waters, except in prohibited or restricted areas, in accordance with posted regulations and restrictions, including buoys. All vessels or watercraft so required by applicable Federal, state and local laws shall display an appropriate registration on board whenever the vessel is on project waters.

(d) No person shall operate any vessel or other watercraft in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner so as to endanger any person, property, or environmental feature.

(e) All vessels, when on project waters, shall have safety equipment, including personal flotation devices, on board in compliance with U.S. Coast Guard boating safety requirements and in compliance with boating safety laws issued and enforced by the state in which the vessel is located. Owners or operators of vessels not in compliance with this section may be requested to remove the vessel immediately from project waters until such time as items of non-compliance are corrected.

(f) Unless otherwise permitted by Federal, state or local law, vessels or other watercraft, while moored in commercial facilities, community or corporate docks, or at any fixed or permanent mooring point, may only be used for overnight occupancy when such use is incidental to recreational boating. Vessels or other watercraft are not to be used as a place of habitation or residence.

(g) Water skis, parasails, ski-kites and similar devices are permitted in nonrestricted areas except that they may not be used in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner so as to endanger any person, property or environmental feature.

(h) Vessels shall not be attached or anchored to structures such as locks, dams, buoys or other structures unless authorized by the District Commander. All vessels when not in actual use shall be removed from project lands and waters unless securely moored or stored at designated areas approved by the District Commander. The placing of floating or stationary mooring facilities on, adjacent to, or interfering with a buoy, channel marker or other navigational aid is prohibited.

(i) The use at a project of any vessel not constructed or maintained in compliance with the standards and requirements established by the Federal Safe Boating Act of 1971 (Pub. L. 92-75, 85 Stat. 213), or promulgated pursuant to such act, is prohibited.

(j) Except as authorized by the District Commander, no person shall operate any vessel or watercraft without a proper and effective exhaust muffler as defined by state and local laws, or with an exhaust muffler cutout open, or in any other manner which renders the exhaust muffler ineffective in muffling the sound of engine exhaust.

(k) All vessels or other watercraft shall be operated in accordance with applicable Federal, state and local laws, which shall be regulated by authorized enforcement officials as prescribed in ยง 327.26.
