
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### § 327.19 Permits.

(a) It shall be a violation of this part to refuse to or fail to comply with the fee requirements or other terms or conditions of any permit issued under the provisions of this part 327.

(b) Permits for floating structures (issued under the authority of § 327.30) of any kind on/in waters of water resources development projects, whether or not such waters are deemed navigable waters of the United States but where such waters are under the management of the Corps of Engineers, shall be issued at the discretion of the District Commander under the authority of this section. District Commanders will delineate those portions of the navigable waters of the United States where this provision is applicable and post notices of this designation in the vicinity of the appropriate Manager's office.

(c) Permits for non-floating structures (issued under the authority of § 327.30) of any kind constructed, placed in or affecting waters of water resources development projects where such waters are deemed navigable waters of the U.S. shall be issued under the provisions of section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act approved March 3, 1899 (33 U.S.C. 403). If a discharge of dredged or fill material in these waters is involved, a permit is required under section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344). (See 33 CFR parts 320 through 330.)

(d) Permits for non-floating structures (issued under the authority of § 327.30) of any kind in waters of water resources development projects, where such waters are under the management of the Corps of Engineers and where such waters are not deemed navigable waters of the United States, shall be issued as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If a discharge of dredged or fill material into any water of the United States is involved, a permit is required under section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344) (See 33 CFR parts 320 through 330). Water quality certification may be required pursuant to Section 401 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1341).

(e) Shoreline Use Permits to authorize private shoreline use facilities, activities or development (issued under the authority of § 327.30) may be issued in accordance with the project Shoreline Management Plan. Failure to comply with the permit conditions issued under § 327.30 is prohibited.
