
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.23 Recreation use fees.

(a) In accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l) and the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, Pub. L. 103-66, the Corps of Engineers collects day use fees, special recreation use fees and/or special permit fees for the use of specialized sites, facilities, equipment or services related to outdoor recreation furnished at Federal expense.

(b) Where such fees are charged, the District Commander shall insure that clear notice of fee requirements is prominently posted at each area, and at appropriate locations therein and that the notice be included in publications distributed at such areas. Failure to pay authorized recreation use fees as established pursuant to Pub. L. 88-578, 78 Stat. 897, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a), is prohibited and is punishable by a fine of not more than $100.

(c) Failure to pay authorized day use fees, and/or properly display applicable receipt, permit or pass is prohibited.

(d) Any Golden Age or Golden Access Passport permittee shall be entitled, upon presentation of such a permit, to utilize special recreation facilities at a rate of 50 percent off the established use fee at Federally operated areas. Fraudulent use of a Golden Age or Golden Access Passport is prohibited.
