
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.30 Shoreline Management on Civil Works Projects.
##### Policy.

(d)(1) It is the policy of the Chief of Engineers to protect and manage shorelines of all Civil Works water resource development projects under Corps jurisdiction in a manner which will promote the safe and healthful use of these shorelines by the public while maintaining environmental safeguards to ensure a quality resource for use by the public. The objectives of all management actions will be to achieve a balance between permitted private uses and resource protection for general public use. Public pedestrian access to and exit from these shorelines shall be preserved. For projects or portions of projects where Federal real estate interest is limited to easement title only, management actions will be appropriate within the limits of the estate acquired.

(2) Private shoreline uses may be authorized in designated areas consistent with approved use allocations specified in Shoreline Management Plans. Except to honor written commitments made prior to publication of this regulation, private shoreline uses are not allowed on water resource projects where construction was initiated after December 13, 1974, or on water resource projects where no private shoreline uses existed as of that date. Any existing permitted facilities on these projects will be grandfathered until the facilities fail to meet the criteria set forth in ยง 327.30(h).

(3) A Shoreline Management Plan, as described in ยง 327.30(e), will be prepared for each Corps project where private shoreline use is allowed. This plan will honor past written commitments. The plan will be reviewed at least once every five years and revised as necessary. Shoreline uses that do not interfere with authorized project purposes, public safety concerns, violate local norms or result in significant environmental effects should be allowed unless the public participation process identifies problems in these areas. If sufficient demand exists, consideration should be given to revising the shoreline allocations (e.g. increases/decreases). Maximum public participation will be encouraged as set forth in ยง 327.30(e)(6). Except to honor written commitments made prior to the publication of this regulation, shoreline management plans are not required for those projects where construction was initiated after December 13, 1974, or on projects not having private shoreline use as of that date. In that case, a statement of policy will be developed by the district commander to present the shoreline management policy. This policy statement will be subject to the approval of the division commander. For projects where two or more agencies have jurisdiction, the plan will be cooperatively prepared with the Corps as coordinator.

(4) Where commercial or other public launching and/or moorage facilities are not available within a reasonable distance, group owned mooring facilities may be allowed in Limited Development Areas to limit the proliferation of individual facilities. Generally only one permit will be necessary for a group owned mooring facility with that entity, if incorporated, or with one person from the organization designated as the permittee and responsible for all moorage spaces within the facility. No charge may be made for use of any permitted facility by others nor shall any commercial activity be engaged in thereon.

(5) The issuance of a private shoreline use permit does not convey any real estate or personal property rights or exclusive use rights to the permit holder. The public's right of access and use of the permit area must be maintained and preserved. Owners of permitted facilities may take necessary precautions to protect their property from theft, vandalism or trespass, but may in no way preclude the public right of pedestrian or vessel access to the water surface or public land adjacent to the facility.

(6) Shoreline Use Permits will only be issued to individuals or groups with legal right of access to public lands.
