
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.30 Shoreline Management on Civil Works Projects.
##### Shoreline Allocation.

(5)The entire shoreline will be allocated within the classifications below and delineated on a map. Any action, within the context of this rule, which gives a special privilege to an individual or group of individuals on land or water at a Corps project, that precludes use of those lands and waters by the general public, is considered to be private shoreline use. Shoreline allocations cover that land and/or water extending from the edge of the water and waterward with the exception of allocations for the purpose of vegetation modification which extends landward to the project boundary. These allocations should complement, but certainly not contradict, the land classifications in the project master plan. A map of sufficient size and scale to clearly display the shoreline allocations will be conspicuously displayed or readily available for viewing in the project administration office and will serve as the authoritative reference. Reduced or smaller scale maps may be developed for public dissemination but the information contained on these must be identical to that contained on the display map in the project administration office. No changes will be made to these maps except through the formal update process. District commanders may add specific constraints and identify areas having unique characteristics during the plan preparation, review, or updating process in addition to the allocation classifications described below.
