
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.30 Shoreline Management on Civil Works Projects.
##### Public Participation.

(6)District commanders will ensure public participation to the maximum practicable extent in Shoreline Management Plan formulation, preparation and subsequent revisions. This may be accomplished by public meetings, group workshops, open houses or other public involvement techniques. When master plan updates and preparation of the Shoreline Management Plans are concurrent, public participation may be combined and should consider all aspects of both plans, including shoreline allocation classifications. Public participation will begin during the initial formulation stage and must be broad-based to cover all aspects of public interest. The key to successful implementation is an early and continual public relations program. Projects with significant numbers of permits should consider developing computerized programs to facilitate exchange of information with permittees and to improve program efficiency. Special care will be taken to advise citizen and conservation organizations; Federal, state and local natural resource management agencies; Indian Tribes; the media; commercial concessionaires; congressional liaisons; adjacent landowners and other concerned entities during the formulation of Shoreline Management Plans and subsequent revisions. Notices shall be published prior to public meetings to assure maximum public awareness. Public notices shall be issued by the district commander allowing for a minimum of 30 days for receipt of written public comment in regard to the proposed Shoreline Management Plan or any major revision thereto.
