
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.30 Shoreline Management on Civil Works Projects.
##### Existing Facilities Now Under Permit.

(h)Implementation of a Shoreline Management Plan shall consider existing permitted facilities and prior written Corps commitments implicit in their issuance. Facilities or activities permitted under special provisions should be identified in a way that will set them apart from other facilities or activities.

(1) Section 6 of Pub. L. 97-140 provides that no lawfully installed dock or appurtenant structures shall be required to be removed prior to December 31, 1989, from any Federal water resources reservoir or lake project administered by the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, on which it was located on December 29, 1981, if such property is maintained in usable condition, and does not occasion a threat to life or property.

(2) In accordance with section 1134(d) of Pub. L. 99-662, any houseboat, boathouse, floating cabin or lawfully installed dock or appurtenant structures in place under a valid shoreline use permit as of November 17, 1986, cannot be forced to be removed from any Federal water resources project or lake administered by the Secretary of the Army on or after December 31, 1989, if it meets the three conditions below except where necessary for immediate use for public purposes or higher public use or for a navigation or flood control project.

(i) Such property is maintained in a usable and safe condition,

(ii) Such property does not occasion a threat to life or property, and

(iii) The holder of the permit is in substantial compliance with the existing permit.

(3) All such floating facilities and appurtenances will be formally recognized in an appropriate Shoreline Management Plan. New permits for these permitted facilities will be issued to new owners. If the holder of the permit fails to comply with the terms of the permit, it may be revoked and the holder required to remove the structure, in accordance with the terms of the permit as to notice, time, and appeal.
