
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 327 - RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC USE OF WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 327.30 Shoreline Management on Civil Works Projects.
##### Density of Development.

(j)The density of private floating and fixed recreation facilities will be established in the Shoreline Management Plan for all portions of Limited Development areas consistent with ecological and aesthetic characteristics and prior written commitments. The facility density in Limited Development Areas should, if feasible, be determined prior to the development of adjacent private property. The density of facilities will not be more than 50 per cent of the Limited Development Area in which they are located. Density will be measured by determining the linear feet of shoreline as compared to the width of the facilities in the water plus associated moorage arrangements which restrict the full unobstructed use of that portion of the shoreline. When a Limited Development Area or a portion of a Limited Development area reaches maximum density, notice should be given to the public and facility owners in that area that no additional facilities will be allowed. In all cases, sufficient open area will be maintained for safe maneuvering of watercraft. Docks should not extend out from the shore more than one-third of the width of a cove at normal recreation or multipurpose pool. In those cases where current density of development exceeds the density level established in the Shoreline Management Plan, the density will be reduced to the prescribed level through attrition.
