
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 328 - REGULATION OF SEAPLANE OPERATIONS AT CIVIL WORKS WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 328.4 Policy.

(a) The objective of Corps of Engineers resources management is to maximize public enjoyment and use of the lands, waters, forests, and associated recreational resources, consistent with their aesthetic and biological values. Such management includes efforts to preserve and enhance the environmental amenities that are the source of the recreational value associated with the project and to allow such other new and innovative uses of the projects that are not detrimental thereto.

(b) Seaplane operations at water resource development projects administered by the Chief of Engineers may involve hazards including, but not limited to, conflicting recreational activities, floating debris, and underwater hazards, which may be accentuated by the normal fluctutations of water levels.

(c) Seaplane operations may be prohibited or restricted at such water resource development projects, or portions thereof, for a variety of management reasons. Prohibiting or restricting seaplane operations in certain portions within a project in no way implies that safety hazards to seaplane operations or to other recreation users may not exist in other portions of such project.

(d) The operation of a seaplane at Corps projects is at the risk of the plane's owner, operator, and passenger(s). The responsibility to ascertain whether seaplane operations are permitted, prohibited or restricted at such projects, and portions thereof, is incumbent upon the person(s) contemplating the use of, or using, such waters.
