
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 328 - REGULATION OF SEAPLANE OPERATIONS AT CIVIL WORKS WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ADMINISTERED BY THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
#### ยง 328.6 Procedures.

(a) In order to protect the integrity and all authorized uses of Corps projects and the safety of all users of the lake projects, the District Engineer shall:

(1) Examine and investigate each Corps project within his district which a seaplane operator could conceivably attempt to use for seaplane operations, and determine those projects, or portions thereof, in which seaplane operations should be prohibited.

(2) Establish such restrictions on seaplane operations as he deems necessary or desirable in accordance with these regulations for other areas. Seaplane takeoff and landing maneuvers within specified distances of the shoreline, bridges, causeways, water utility crossings, dams, and similar structures should be prohibited.

(3) Prior to concluding any such examination and investigation, consult with the FAA, appropriate State aeronautical agency, lessee or licensee of outgranted lands, the Coast Guard, and state boating law administrators, and use his best efforts to consult with other interested or affected public authorities and private interests for their guidance, particularly for those projects which are regularly used by the public for recreational purposes or are located in the vicinity of actively used airports, air fields, or densely populated areas. News releases, public notice, and congressional liaison should be used. Public hearings are encouraged.

(4) In making his investigation, examination, and determination, consider environmental factors in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), Pub. L. 91-190-particularly should he consider the impact that seaplane operations may have on the safety at the project, aquatic, fish and wildlife, noise levels, recreation, and air and water quality. Prior to concluding such investigation and examination, he shall prepare an environmental impact assessment (EIA) and, if necessary, an environmental impact statement (EIS) assessing the environmental impacts of permitting seaplanes to operate at the projects, or portions thereof, in his district.

(5) Place on Corps maps, brochures and otherwise adequately apprise the public and interested agencies of projects, or portions thereof, where seaplane operations are prohibited or restricted. Each map, brochure, or other notice should clearly indicate that operation of a seaplane at Corps projects is at the risk of the plane's owner, operator, and/or passenger(s).

(6) Notify the FAA by letter of projects, or portions thereof, where seaplane operations are prohibited or restricted. The letter should use the words "seaplane operations prohibited," or "seaplane operations restricted," describe the geographical location of such areas as precisely as possible, describe any restrictions, include a telephone number for FAA to contact the District, and be sent to: Federal Aviation Administration, Area Traffic Service, Flight Services Division (AAT-432), 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591.

(b) The removal of the present prohibition on seaplane operations will be effective one year from the date of publication of these regulations. The District Engineer should complete the examination, investigation, determination and notification to the FAA of projects, or portions thereof, where seaplane operations are prohibited or restricted, within one year from the date of this regulation. The District Engineer may extend the present prohibition for up to one additional year if he cannot complete his examination, investigation, determination, and notification within one year. In such event, he should notify the FAA by letter and publish other appropriate notices. Any further extension of time will require the approval of the Chief of Engineers.

(c) After he has completed his examination, investigation, determination and notification of the FAA of projects, or portions thereof where seaplane operations will be prohibited or restricted, The District Engineer should periodically reevaluate his determination as additional operational data becomes available. He may modify, delete, or add projects, or portions thereof, where seaplane operations are prohibited or restricted. Except where immediate action is required, he should consult with appropriate public authorities and private interests for their guidance with regard to such actions. Notification of these actions shall be forwarded to the FAA as indicated in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
