
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 331 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PROTECTION, USE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE FALLS OF THE OHIO NATIONAL WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AREA, KENTUCKY AND INDIANA
#### ยง 331.1 Applicability and scope.

(a) The regulations contained in this part apply to those lands and waters within the established boundary of the Falls of the Ohio National Wildlife Conservation Area (WCA). Included in this boundary, which was published in theof August 12, 1982, are publicly and privately owned lands, waters and improvements. The Federal Government, acting through the Corps of Engineers, will acquire such rights to privately-owned properties in the WCA as are necessary to carry out the purposes of title II, Pub. L. 97-137. The regulations prescribed herein are for the use, management and protection of the resources of the WCA and all persons entering, using or visiting within the boundaries of the WCA are subject to these regulations. All other applicable Federal, State and local laws and regulations remain in full force and effect. The District Engineer, US Army Corps of Engineers, exercises non-exclusive jurisdiction over the lands and waters of the WCA and enforces these regulations.

(b) The WCA boundary encompasses an existing hydroelectric generating station and the McAlpine Locks and Dam, operating navigation structures which are part of the authorized Ohio River Navigation System. The continued operation and maintenance of this system take precedence over the purposes of the WCA, except that such operation and maintenance will be consistent with the basic purpose of the WCA as regards prohibition of hunting, vandalism, and dumping of refuse. Management of the WCA to achieve its intended purposes will, to the extent practicable, be accomplished in a manner consistent and compatible with continued generation of electricity and navigation on the Ohio River, including operation and maintenance of the McAlpine Locks and Dam and the Louisville Repair Station and material storage areas located on Shippingport Island.
