
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter III - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army
### PART 331 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PROTECTION, USE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE FALLS OF THE OHIO NATIONAL WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AREA, KENTUCKY AND INDIANA
#### ยง 331.12 Vehicles.

(a) The use of a vehicle off roadways is prohibited except as may be authorized by the District Engineer.

(b) Vehicles shall not be parked in violation of any posted restriction, or in such a manner as to endanger any Federal property to include natural features. The owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this section shall be presumed to have parked it, and unless rebutted such presumption will be sufficient to sustain a conviction as provided for in ยง 331.25.

(c) Vehicles shall be operated in accordance with all posted regulations.

(d) Driving or operating any vehicle in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner, heedlessly or in willful disregard for the safety of other persons, or in such manner as to endanger any property or environmental feature, or without due care or at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under prevailing conditions with regard to traffic, weather, road, light and surface conditions, is prohibited.

(e) This section pertains to all vehicles, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, minibikes, trail bikes, snowmobiles, dune buggies, all terrain vehicles, bicycles, trailers, campers, or any other such equipment.

(f) Except as authorized by the District Engineer, no person shall operate any motorized vehicle without a proper and effective exhaust muffler, or with an exhaust muffler cutout open, or in any other manner which renders the exhaust muffler ineffective in muffling the sound of engine exhaust.
