
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IV - American Battle Monuments Commission
### PART 401 - MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS
#### ยง 401.10 Monument Trust Fund Program.

Pursuant to the provisions of 36 U.S.C. 2106(d), the Commission operates a Monument Trust Fund Program (MTFP) in countries where there is a Commission presence. Under the MTFP, the Commission may assume both the sponsor's legal interests in the monument and responsibility for its maintenance. To be accepted in the Monument Trust Fund Program, an organization must develop an acceptable maintenance plan and transfer sufficient monies to the Commission to fully fund the maintenance plan for at least 30 years. to The Commission will put this money into a trust fund of United States Treasury instruments that earn interest. Prior to acceptance into the MTFP, the sponsor must perform any deferred maintenance necessary to bring the monument up to a mutually agreeable standard. At that time, the Commission may assume the sponsoring organization's interest in the property and responsibility for all maintenance and other decisions concerning the monument. Once accepted into the program, the Commission will provide for all necessary maintenance of the monument and charge the cost to the trust fund. to The sponsoring organization or others interested in the monument may add to the trust fund at any time to insure that adequate funds remain available. to The Commission will maintain the monument for as long a period as the trust fund account permits.
