
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IV - American Battle Monuments Commission
### PART 404 - PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 404.4 Access to information.
##### Requests.

(b)(1) Requesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist ABMC in communicating with them and providing released records.

(2)(i) Requests for records must reasonably describe the records sought. Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help ABMC identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the ABMC FOIA Assistant or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records.

(ii) If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, response to the request may be delayed. If, after receiving a request, ABMC determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, ABMC must inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA Assistant or FOIA Public Liaison.

(3) Requests may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records sought. ABMC will accommodate the request if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.
