
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IV - American Battle Monuments Commission
### PART 404 - PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 404.4 Access to information.
##### Grants and denials of requests.

(g)(1) Once ABMC determines it will grant a request in full or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing. ABMC must also inform the requester of any fees charged under ยง 404.10 and must disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. ABMC must inform the requester of the availability of its FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.

(2) ABMC may provide interim releases for voluminous requests.

(3) If ABMC determines that a full disclosure of a requested record is not possible, it will consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible. Records disclosed in part will be marked clearly to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made, unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted will also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.

(4) If the request is denied, in part or in full, the written notification to the requester shall include the reasons for the denial and the estimated volume withheld (unless indicated via markings, or if providing such an estimate would harm an interest protected by an exemption). The notification must inform the requester of:

(i) The requester's right to seek assistance from ABMC's FOIA Public Liaison;

(ii) The requester's right to lodge an appeal with ABMC within 90 days after the date of the denial; and

(iii) The requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).
