
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VII - Library of Congress
### PART 701 - PROCEDURES AND SERVICES
#### ยง 701.3 Methods of disposition of surplus and/or duplicate materials.
##### Exchange.

(a)All libraries may make selections on an exchange basis from the materials available in the "Exchange/Transfer" category. The policy governing these selections is that exchange be made only when materials of approximately equal value are expected to be furnished in return within a reasonable period. Dealers also may negotiate exchanges of this type for items selected from available exchange materials, but surplus copyright deposit copies of works published after 1977 shall not knowingly be exchanged with dealers. Offers of exchange submitted by libraries shall be submitted to the Chief of the African/Asian Acquisitions and Overseas Operations Division, Anglo-American Acquisitions Division, or European/Latin American Acquisitions Division, or their designees, as appropriate, who shall establish the value of the material concerned. Offers from dealers shall be referred to the Chief of the Anglo-American Acquisitions Division. Exchange offers involving materials valued at $1,000 or more must be approved by the Acquisitions Division Chief; offers of $10,000 or more must be approved by the Director for Acquisitions and Support Services; and offers of $50,000 or more must be approved by the Associate Librarian for Library Services. The Library also explicitly reserves the right to suspend, for any period of time it deems appropriate, the selection privileges of any book dealer who fails to comply fully with any rules prescribed for the disposal of library materials under this section or any other pertinent regulations or statutes.
