
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VII - Library of Congress
### PART 701 - PROCEDURES AND SERVICES
#### ยง 701.5 Policy on authorized use of the Library name, seal, or logo.
##### Credit and recognition policy.

(c)(1) The name "Library of Congress," or any abbreviation or subset such as "Copyright Office" or "Congressional Research Service," thereof, is used officially to represent the Library of Congress and its programs, projects, functions, activities, or elements thereof. The use of the Library's name, explicitly or implicitly to endorse a product or service, or materials in any publication is prohibited, except as provided for in this part.

(2) The Library of Congress seal symbolizes the Library's authority and standing as an official agency of the U.S. Government. As such, it shall be displayed only on official documents or publications of the Library. The seal of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board shall be affixed to documents of that body as prescribed by the Librarian of Congress. The seal of the National Film Preservation Board shall be affixed to documents of that body as prescribed by the Librarian of Congress. Procedures governing the use of any Library of Congress logo or symbol are set out below. Any person or organization that uses the Library Seal or the Seal of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board in a manner other than as authorized by the provisions of this section shall be subject to the criminal provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1017.

(3) Questions regarding the appropriateness of the use of any Library logos or symbols, or the use of the Library's name, shall be referred to the Public Affairs Officer.

(4) Cooperative Ventures. (i) Individual, commercial enterprises or non-commercial entities with whom the Library has a cooperative agreement to engage in cooperative efforts shall be instructed regarding Library policy on credit, recognition, and endorsement by the officer or manager with whom they are dealing.

(ii) Ordinarily, the Library logo should appear in an appropriate and suitable location on all cooperative publications. The Library requires that a credit line accompany reproductions of images from its collections and reflect the nature of the relationship such as "published in association with * * *."

(iii) The size, location, and other attributes of the logo and credit line should be positioned in such a way that they do not imply Library endorsement of the publication unless such endorsement is expressly intended by the Library, as would be the case in cooperative activities. Use of the Library name or logo in any context suggesting an explicit or implicit endorsement may be approved in only those instances where the Library has sufficient control over the publication to make changes necessary to reflect Library expertise.

(iv) Library officers working on cooperative projects shall notify all collaborators of Library policy in writing if the collaboration is arranged through an exchange of correspondence. All uses of the Library of Congress's name, seal or logo on promotional materials must be approved by the Public Affairs Officer, in consultation with the Office of the General Counsel, in advance. A statement of Library policy shall be incorporated into the agreement if the terms of the collaboration are embodied in any written instrument, such as a contract or letter of understanding. The statement could read as follows:
