
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VII - Library of Congress
### PART 701 - PROCEDURES AND SERVICES
#### ยง 701.5 Policy on authorized use of the Library name, seal, or logo.
##### Noncommercial Users.

(d)Library officers assisting individuals who are noncommercial users of Library resources shall encourage them to extend the customary professional courtesy of acknowledging their sources in publications, including films, television, and radio, and to use approved credit lines.

(1) Each product acquired for resale by the Library that involves new labeling or packaging shall bear a Library logo and shall contain information describing the relevance of the item to the Library or its collections. Items not involving new packaging shall be accompanied by a printed description of the Library and its mission, with Library logo, as well as the rationale for operating a gift shop program in a statement such as, "Proceeds from gift shop sales are used to support the Library collections and to further the Library's educational mission."

(2) Electronic Users. Links to other sites from the Library of Congress's site should adhere to the Appropriate Use Policy for External Linking in the Internet Policies and Procedures Handbook. Requests for such linkage must be submitted to the Public Affairs Office for review and approval.

(3) Office Systems Services shall make available copies of the Library seal or logo in a variety of sizes and formats, including digital versions, if use has been approved by the Public Affairs Officer, in consultation with the Office of General Counsel.

(4) Each service unit head shall be responsible for devising the most appropriate way to carry out and enforce this policy in consultation with the General Counsel and the Public Affairs Officer.
