
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VII - Library of Congress
### PART 702 - CONDUCT ON LIBRARY PREMISES
#### ยง 702.3 Demonstrations.

(a) Library buildings and grounds are designated as limited public forums, except for those areas designated as nonpublic forums. However, only Library grounds (defined in 2 U.S.C. 167j), not buildings, may be utilized for demonstrations, including assembling, marching, picketing, or rallying. In addition, as the need for the determination of other matters arises, the Librarian will determine what additional First Amendment activities may not be permitted in a limited public forum. In making such determination, The Librarian will consider only whether the intended activity is incompatible with the primary purpose and intended use of that area.

(b) The Director, Integrated Support Services, shall designate certain Library grounds as available for demonstrations. Persons seeking to use such designated areas for the purpose of demonstrations shall first secure written permission from the Director, Integrated Support Services. An application for such permission shall be filed with Facility Services no later than four business days before the time of the proposed demonstration and shall include:

(1) The name of the organization(s) or sponsor(s) of the demonstration;

(2) The contact person's name and telephone number;

(3) The proposed purpose of the demonstration;

(4) The proposed location of the demonstration;

(5) The date and hour(s) planned for the demonstration;

(6) The anticipated number of demonstrators;

(7) A concise statement detailing arrangements for the prompt cleanup of the site after the demonstration;

(8) Any request for permission to use loudspeakers, microphones, or other amplifying devices, hand held or otherwise; and

(9) A signed agreement by the applicant(s) to comply with Library regulations and terms and conditions established for the demonstration.

(c) Upon receipt of an application, Facility Services shall forward the application, along with any comments and recommendations, to the Director, Integrated Support Services, within one business day of the office's receipt of said application. The Director, Integrated Support Services, shall respond to the request within three business days of his or her receipt of said application. The Director, Integrated Support Services, shall request advice from the Office of the General Counsel on any legal questions arising from said application.

(d) Permission to demonstrate shall be based upon:

(1) The availability of the requested location;

(2) The likelihood that the demonstration will not interfere with Library operations or exceed city noise limitations as defined by District of Columbia regulations; and

(3) The likelihood that the demonstration will proceed peacefully in the event that a volatile situation in the United States or abroad might lead to a potentially harmful threat toward the Capitol complex, including Library buildings and grounds.
