
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VII - Library of Congress
### PART 705 - REPRODUCTION, COMPILATION, AND DISTRIBUTION OF NEWS TRANSMISSIONS UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE AMERICAN TELEVISION AND RADIO ARCHIVES ACT
#### ยง 705.3 Definitions.

For purposes of this part:

(a) The terms copies, fixed, phonorecords and transmission program, and their variant forms, have the meanings given to them in section 101 of title 17 of the United States Code. For the purpose of this part, the term transmission includes transmission via the Internet, cable, broadcasting, and satellite systems, and via any other existing or future devices or processes for the communication of a performance or display whereby images or sounds are received beyond the place from which they are sent. 17 U.S.C. 101; H.R. Rep. No. 94-1476, at 64 (1976).

(b) The term regularly scheduled newscasts means transmission programs in any format that report on current events, regardless of quality, subject matter, or significance, and that air on a periodic basis, (including but not limited to daily, weekly, or quarterly), or on an occasional basis, but not on a special, one-time basis. The term on-the-spot coverage of news events refers to transmission programs in any format that report on reasonably recent current events, regardless of quality, subject matter, or significance, and that are aired in a timely manner but not necessarily contemporaneously with the recording of the events.

(c) The term staff for the purpose of this part includes both Library employees and contractors.
