
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.27 Dry Tortugas National Park.
##### Are there recreational fishing restrictions that I need to know?

(b)(1) Yes. After consulting with and obtaining the concurrence of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, based on management objectives and the park fisheries research, the Superintendent may impose closures and establish conditions or restrictions necessary pertaining to fishing, including, but not limited to, species of fish that may be taken, seasons, and hours during which fishing may take place, methods of taking, and size, bag, and possession limits. The public will be notified of any changes through one or more methods listed in ยง 1.7 of this chapter. In emergency situations, after consulting with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, the Superintendent may impose temporary closures and establish conditions or restrictions necessary, but not exceeding 30 days in duration which may be extended for one additional 30 day period, pertaining to fishing, including, but not limited to, species of fish that may be taken, seasons, and hours during which fishing may take place, methods of taking, and size, bag, and possession limits. In emergency situations where consultation in advance is not possible, the Superintendent will consult with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission within 24-hours of the initiation of the temporary closure or restriction.

(2) Only the following may be legally taken from Dry Tortugas National Park:

(i) Fin fish by closely attended hook-and-line;

(ii) Bait fish by closely attended hook and line, dip net, or cast net and limited to 5 gallons per vessel per day; and

(iii) Shrimp may be taken by dip net or cast net.

(3) The following waters and areas are closed to fishing:

(i) The Research Natural Area (RNA): Fish and fishing gear may be possessed aboard a vessel in the RNA, provided such fish can be shown not to have been harvested from within, removed from, or taken within the RNA, as applicable, by being stowed in a cabin, locker, or similar storage area prior to entering and during transit through the RNA, provided further that such vessel is in continuous transit through the RNA. Gear capable of harvesting fish may be aboard a vessel in the RNA, provided such gear is not available for immediate use when entering and during transit through the RNA and no presumption of fishing activity shall be drawn therefrom;

(ii) Garden Key moat;

(iii) Within any swimming and snorkeling areas designated by buoys;

(iv) Within 50 feet of the historic coaling docks;

(v) Helipad areas, including the gasoline refueling dock.

(4) The following are prohibited:

(i) Possessing lobster within the boundaries of the park, unless the individual took the lobster outside park waters and has the proper State/Federal licenses and permits. Vessels with legally taken lobster aboard which was taken outside the park may not have persons overboard in park waters. The presence of lobster aboard a vessel in park waters, while one or more persons from such vessel are overboard, constitutes prima facie evidence that the lobsters were harvested from park waters in violation of this chapter.

(ii) Taking fish by pole spear, Hawaiian sling, rubber powered, pneumatic, or spring loaded gun or similar device known as a speargun, air rifles, bows and arrows, powerheads, or explosive powered guns. Operators of vessels within the park must break down and store all weapons described in this paragraph so that they are not available for immediate use.

(iii) Use of a hand held hook, gig, gaff, or snare, except that a gaff may be used for landing a fish lawfully caught by hook and line when consistent with all requirements in this section, including size and species restrictions.

(iv) Taking, possessing, or touching any ornamental tropical fish or marine life except as expressly provided in this section.

(v) Dragging or trawling a dip net or cast net.

(vi) The use of nets except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)and (iii) of this section.

(vii) Engaging in guide operations (fee for service), including but not limited to fishing and diving, except in accordance with the provisions of:

(A) A permit, contract, or other commercial use authorization; or

(B) Other written agreement with the United States administered under this chapter.
