
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VIII - Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
### PART 801 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT ACTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### ยง 801.3 Applicant responsibilities.
##### Determinations of Effect.

(2)Prior to submitting an application to HUD, the applicant shall apply the Criteria of Effect and Adverse Effect to all properties which are listed in the National Register or which may meet the Criteria in the area of the project's potential environmental impact. The determination of the Secretary of the Interior shall be final with respect to properties which are eligible for listing in the National Register. The Council will not comment on affected properties which are not either listed in or eligible for listing in the National Register. In order to facilitate the process, information to be requested from the State Historic Preservation Officer under ยง 801.3(b)(2) should include advice on applying the Criteria of Effect and Adverse Effect provided that this period shall not be included in the 45 day State Historic Preservation Officer Review Period. Special attention should be paid to indirect effects, such as changes in land use, traffic patterns, street activity, population density and growth rate. While some aspects of a project may have little potential to adversely affect the significant qualities of a historic property, other project components may meet the Criteria of Effect and Adverse Effect. If any aspect of the project results in an effect determination, further evaluation of the effect shall be undertaken in accordance with these regulations. The resulting determination regarding the effect shall be included in the application.
