
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VIII - Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
### PART 801 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT ACTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### Appendix 1 to Part 801 - Identification of Properties: General

Because of the high probability of locating properties which are listed in the National Register or which meet the Criteria for listing in many older city downtowns, this appendix is designed to serve as guidance for UDAG applicants in identifying such properties. This appendix sets forth guidance for applicants and does not set a fixed or inflexible standard for identification efforts.

In any effort to locate National Register properties or properties which meet the Criteria, the State Historic Preservation Officer is a key source of information and advice. The State Historic Preservation Officer will be of vital assistance to the applicant. The State Historic Preservation Officer can provide information on known properties and on studies which have taken place in and around the project area. Early contact should be made with the State Historic Preservation Officer for recommendations about how to identify historic properties. For UDAG projects, identification of National Register properties and properties which meet the Criteria is the responsibility of the applicant. The extent of the identification effort should be made with the advice of the State Historic Preservation Officer. The State Historic Preservation Officer can be a knowledgeable source of information regarding cases wherein the need for a survey of historic properties is appropriate, recommended type and method of a survey and the boundaries of any such survey. Due consideration should be given to the nature of the project and its impacts, the likelihood of historic properties being affected and the state of existing knowledge regarding historic properties in the area of the project's potential environmental impact.

1. The area of the project's potential environmental impact consists of two distinct subareas: that which will be disturbed directly (generally the construction site and its immediate environs) and that which will experience indirect effects. Within the area of indirect impact, impacts will be induced as a result of carrying the project out. Historic and cultural properties subject to effect must be identified in both subareas, and the level of effort necessary in each may vary. The level of effort needed is also affected by the stage of planning and the quality of pre-existing information. Obviously, if the area of potential environmental impact has already been fully and intensively studied before project planning begins, there is no need to duplicate this effort. The State Historic Preservation Officer should be contacted for information on previous studies. If the area has not been previously intensively studied, identification efforts generally fall into three levels:
