
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VIII - Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
### PART 801 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT ACTION GRANT PROGRAM
#### Appendix 1 to Part 801 - Identification of Properties: General
##### Definition and Evaluation Study:

c.If an overview and/or an identification study have indicated the presence or probable presence of properties that may meet the National Register Criteria but has not documented them sufficiently to allow a determination to be made about their eligibility, a definition and evaluation study is necessary. Such a study is directed at specific potentially eligible properties or at areas known or suspected to contain such properties. It includes an intensive on-the-ground inspection and related studies as necessary, conducted by qualified personnel, and provides sufficient information to apply the National Register's "Criteria for Evaluation" (36 CFR 60.6).

2. An overview study will normally be needed to provide basic information for planning in the area of potential environmental impact. Unless this study indicates clearly that no further identification efforts are needed (e.g., by demonstrating that the entire area has already been intensively inspected with negative results, or by demonstrating that no potentially significant buildings have ever been built there and there is virtually no potential for archeological resources), and identification study will probably be needed within the area of potential environmental impact. This study may show that there are no potentially eligible properties within the area, or may show that only a few such properties exist and document them sufficiently to permit a determination of eligibility to be made in accordance with 36 CFR part 60. Alternatively, the study may indicate that potentially eligible properties exist in the area, but may not document them to the standards of 36 CFR part 60. Should this occur, a definition and evaluation study is necessary for those properties falling within the project's area of direct effect and for those properties subject to indirect effects. If a property falls within the general area of indirect effect, but no indirect effects are actually anticipated on the property in question, a definition and evaluation study will normally be superfluous.
