
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VIII - Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
### PART 810 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 810.3 Action on requests.

(a) Once a requested record has been identified, the Administrative Officer shall notify the requester of a date and location where the records may be examined or of the fact that copies are available. The notification shall also advise the requester of any applicable fees under ยง 810.5.

(b) A reply denying a request shall be in writing, signed by the Administrative Officer and shall include:

(1) Reference to the specific exemption under the Act which authorizes the denial of the record, a brief explanation of how the exemption applies to the record requested, and a brief statement of why a discretionary release is not appropriate; and,

(2) A statement that the denial may be appealed under ยง 810.4 within 30 days by writing to the Executive Director, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, 1522 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20005.

(c) The requirements of ยง 810.3 (b)(1) and (2) do not apply to requests denied on the ground that they are not described with reasonable specificity and consequently cannot be identified.

(d) Within 10 working days from receipt of a request, the Administrative Officer shall determine whether to grant or deny the request and shall promptly notify the requester of the decision. In certain unusual circumstances specified below, the time for determinations on requests may be extended up to a total of 10 additional working days. The requester shall be notified in writing of any extension and of the reason for it, as well as of the data on which a determination will be made. Unusual circumstances include:

(1) The need to search for and collect records from field offices or other establishments that are separate from the Washington office of the Council;

(2) The need to search for, collect, and examine a voluminous amount of material which is sought in a request; or,

(3) The need for consultation with another agency having substantial interest in the subject matter of the request.
