
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter VIII - Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
### PART 810 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 810.5 Fees.

(a) Fees shall be charged according to the schedules contained in paragraph (b) of this section unless it is determined that the requested information will be of primary benefit to the general public rather than to the requester. In that case, fees may be waived. Fees shall not be charged where they would amount to less than $3.00.

(b) The following charges shall be assessed:

(1) Copies of documents-$0.10 per page.

(2) Clerical searches-$1.00 for each one quarter hour in excess of the first quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in searching for requested records.

(3) Professional searches-$2.00 for each one quarter hour in excess of the first quarter hour spent by professional or managerial personnel in determining which records are covered by a request or other tasks that cannot be performed by clerical personnel.

(c) Where it is anticipated that fees may amount to more than $25.00, the requester shall be advised of the anticipated amount of the fee and his consent obtained before the request is processed. The time limits for processing the request under ยง 810.3 shall not begin to run until the requester's written agreement to pay the fees has been received. In the discretion of the Administrative Officer, advance payment of fees may be required before requested records are made available.

(d) Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
