
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 901 - BYLAWS OF THE CORPORATION
#### ยง 901.3 Board of directors.
##### Composition; number; selection; terms of office.

(b)The Board of Directors shall be comprised of fifteen voting members and eight nonvoting members. The powers and management of the Corporation shall reside with the fifteen voting members, and the procedures of the Board shall be determined by them.

(1) The fifteen voting members shall include the seven government agency representatives specified in subsection 3(c) of the Act (or, their designees), and eight individuals meeting the qualifications of that subsection, appointed by the President of the United States from private life, at least four of whom shall be residents and registered voters of the District of Columbia.

(2) The Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be designated by the President of the United States from among those members appointed from private life.

(3) Upon his appointment, the Chairman shall invite the eight representatives designated in subsection 3(g) of the Act to serve as non-voting members of the Board of Directors.

(4) Each member of the Board of Directors appointed from private life shall serve a term of six years from the expiration of his predecessor's term; except that the terms of the Directors first taking office shall begin on October 27, 1972 and shall expire as designated at the time of appointment. A Director may continue to serve until his successor has qualified.

(5) A Director appointed from private life wishing to resign shall submit a letter of resignation to the President of the United States, and his resignation shall become effective upon the date of the President's acceptance thereof.

(6) A Director, appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed, shall serve for the remainder of such term.
