
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 901 - BYLAWS OF THE CORPORATION
#### ยง 901.3 Board of directors.
##### Meetings.

(c)(1) The Board of Directors shall meet and keep its records at the office of the Corporation.

(2) Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the call of the Chairman, but not less often than once every three months. The Chairman shall also call a meeting at the written request of any five voting members.

(3) The Chairman shall direct the Secretary to give the members of the Board notice of each meeting, either personally, or by mail, or by telegram, stating the time, the place and the agenda for the meeting. Notice by telephone shall be personal notice. Any Director may waive, in writing, notice as to himself, whether before or after the time of the meeting, and the presence of a Director at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of that meeting. Notice, in whatever form, shall be given so that a Director will have received it five working days prior to the time of the meeting.

(4) Unless otherwise limited by the notice thereof, any and all Corporation business may be transacted at any meeting.

(5) The Chairman shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors, or the Vice Chairman in the absence of the Chairman. In the event of the absence of both the Chairman and the Vice Chairman, the Directors present at the meeting shall designate a Presiding Officer.
