
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 902 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### Subpart E - Availability of Reasonably Described Records
##### ยง 902.41 Public access to reasonably described records.

(a) Any person desiring access to a record covered by this subpart may make request for records and copies either in person on any workday at the Corporation's office, or by written request. In either instance, the requester must comply with the following provisions;

(1) A written request must be made for the record;

(2) The request must indicate that it is being made under the Freedom of Information Act (section 552 of title 5 U.S.C.); and

(3) The request must be addressed to the attention of the Administrative Officer, as provided in ยง 902.11.

(b) Each request for a record should reasonably describe the particular record sought. The request should specify, to the extent possible, the subject matter of the record, the date when it was made, the place where it was made and the person who made it. If the description is insufficient to process the request, the Public Information offices shall promptly notify the person making the request and solicit further information. The Administrative Officer may assist the person in perfecting the request.

(c) Requests made in person at the Corporation's office during regular working hours (9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays) shall be processed as provided in subpart G of this part. The Corporation shall provide adequate inspection and copying facilities. Original records may be copied, but may not be released from the custody of the Corporation. Upon payment of the appropriate fee, copies will be provided to the requester by mail or in person.

(d) Every effort will be made to make a record in use by the staff of the Corporation available when requested, and availability may be deferred only to the extent necessary to avoid serious interference with the business of the Corporation.

(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, informational materials and services, such as press releases, and similar materials prepared by the Corporation, shall be made available upon written or oral request. These services are considered as part of any informational program of the Government and are readily made available to the public. There is no fee for individual copies of such materials as long as they are in supply. In addition, the Corporation will continue to respond, without charge, to routine oral or written inquiries that do not involve direct access to records of the Corporation.
