
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 903 - PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 903.4 Requests for access to records.

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, an individual, upon request made in person or delivered in writing may gain access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to him or her which is contained in a system of records maintained by the Corporation, and to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him or her. An individual seeking access to a Corporation record may be accompanied by a person of his or her choosing. However, the Corporation will require a written statement from the individual authorizing discussion of his or her record in the accompanying person's presence.

(b) A request under paragraph (a) of this section shall be directed to the Privacy Protection Officer at the place, times and in the manner prescribed in ยง 903.3(a) and (b). The request should include the following information:

(1) The name of the individual;

(2) If made in writing, the information required under ยง 903.3(b);

(3) A description of system or systems of records which contain the record to which access is requested;

(4) The approximate dates covered by the record; and,

(5) A suggested date and time when the individual would like to view the record.

(c) Requests which do not contain information sufficient to identify the record requested will be returned promptly to the requester, with a notice indicating that information is lacking. Individuals making requests in person will be informed of any deficiency in the specification of records or identification at the time that the request is made. The Privacy Protection Officer of the Corporation will require adequate personal identification before processing a request made in person.
