
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 903 - PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 903.8 Review of request for amendment of record.

(a) Upon receipt of a request for amendment of a record the Privacy Protection Officer will promptly review the record and: Either:

(1) Amend any portion thereof which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; or

(2) Inform the individual of refusal to amend the record in accordance with the request. In reviewing a record pursuant to a request to amend it, the Corporation will assess the accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness of the record in terms of the criteria established in 5 U.S.C. 522a(e)(5). In reviewing a record in response to a request to amend it by deleting information, the Corporation will ascertain whether or not the information is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Corporation required to be accomplished by statute or by executive order of the President, as prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 522a(e)(1).

(b) The Corporation shall take the action specified in paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days of receipt of a request for amendment of a record, unless unusual circumstances preclude completion of the action within that time. If the expected completion date for the action, as indicated in the acknowledgement provided pursuant to ยง 903.5 cannot be met, the individual shall be advised of the delay and of a revised date when action is expected to be completed. If necessary for an accurate review of the record, the Corporation will seek, and the individual will supply, additional information in support of his or her request for amending the record.

(c) If the Corporation agrees with all or any portion of an individual's request to amend a record, the Corporation will so advise the individual in writing, and amend the record to the extent agreed to by the Corporation. Where an accounting of disclosures has been kept, the Corporation will advise all previous recipients of the record of the fact that the amendment was made and the substance of the amendment.

(d) If the Corporation disagrees with all or any portion of an individual's request to amend a record, the Corporation shall:

(1) Advise the individual of its adverse determination and the reasons therefor, including the criteria used by the Corporation in conducting the review;

(2) Inform the individual that he or she may request a review of the adverse determination by the Executive Director of the Corporation, or by an officer of the Corporation designated by the Executive Director; and,

(3) Advise the individual of the procedures for requesting such a review including the name and address of the official to whom the request should be directed.

(e) If the Corporation is apprised by another agency of any corrections or other amendments made to a record contained in the Corporation's system of records, the Corporation will promptly amend its record and advise in writing all previous recipients of the record of the fact that the amendment was made and the substance of the amendment.
