
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 905 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
#### Subpart F - Conduct and Responsibilities of Former Employees - Enforcement
##### ยง 905.737-102 Enforcement proceedings.
###### Initiation of disciplinary hearing.

(b)(1) Information regarding a possible violation of 18 U.S.C. 207 or 5 CFR part 737 should be communicated to the Chairman. The Chairman shall promptly initiate an investigation to determine whether there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation has occurred.

(2) On receipt of information regarding a possible violation of 18 U.S.C. 207, and after determining that such information appears substantiated, the Chairman of the Corporation shall expeditiously provide such information, along with any comments or regulations of the Corporation, to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics and to the Criminal Division, Department of Justice. The Corporation shall coordinate any investigation with the Department of Justice to avoid prejudicing criminal proceedings, unless the Department of Justice communicates to the Corporation that it does not intend to initiate criminal prosecution.

(3) Whenever the Corporation has determined after appropriate review, that there is reasonable cause to believe that a former employee has violated 18 U.S.C. 207 or 5 CFR part 737, it shall initiate a disciplinary proceeding by providing the former employee with notice as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) At each stage of any investigation or proceeding under this section, the Chairman shall take whatever steps are necessary to protect the privacy of the former employee. Only those individuals participating in an investigation or hearing shall have access to information collected by the Corporation pursuant to its investigation of the alleged violation.
