
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 906 - AFFIRMATIVE ACTION POLICY AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart A - Development Program
##### ยง 906.3 Procedures.

(a) Affirmative Action Plans must be submitted to the Corporation at the following times:

(1) At the time a response is submitted to the Corporation's solicitation for proposals, the response must include an Affirmative Action Plan;

(2) If a property right exceeding 10 percent of the area of the development parcel is made available by the Corporation, but without the Corporation having made a solicitation for proposals, the developer must submit an Affirmative Action Plan within 30 days after the start of negotiations with the Corporation.

(b) Affirmative Action Plans will be reviewed as follows:

(1) Each Affirmative Action Plan submitted to the Corporation will be reviewed by the Corporation's Affirmative Action Officer, or his designee.

(2) In the case of a developer who responds to a solicitation for proposals, the Affirmative Action Plan will be reviewed by the Affirmative Action Officer, and if the Plan is in substantial compliance with the goals set forth in Exhibit A, the Plan and the recommendation of the Affirmative Action Officer will be submitted to the Chairman of the Board for approval prior to the Board's final selection.

(3) In the case of a developer who receives 10 percent or more of the area of a development parcel from the Corporation, the Affirmative Action Plan will be reviewed by the Corporation's Affirmative Action Officer, and if the Plan is in substantial compliance with the goals set forth in Exhibit A, the Plan and the recommendation of the Affirmative Action Officer will be submitted to the Chairman of the Board for approval within 15 days of submission.

(4) The Chairman may approve any Affirmative Action Plan that is not in substantial compliance with the goals set forth in Exhibit A, but for which the developer has documented a genuine effort to meet the goals of the regulations and complied with the spirit of the Corporation's policy.

(5) The Chairman may, in his discretion, submit any Affirmative Action Plan to the Board of Directors for approval, if there is not substantial compliance with the goals set forth in Exhibit A.

(6) The review of the Affirmative Action Plan will determine conformity with The Pennsylvania Avenue Plan-1974, the policy of the Corporation's Board of Directors, and the regulations and guidelines set forth in this subpart A, part 906.

(c) Revisions: (1) The Corporation may require a developer at any time prior to approval of the Affirmative Action Plan to revise the Plan for compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(2) Each developer required to comply with this subpart must submit for approval an up-dated Affirmative Action Plan at the commencement of construction, at the commencement of occupancy, and at the commencement of operation or management of any portion of the facility by the developer or a related entity. Each revision of the Affirmative Action Plan must address all the requirements set forth in ยง 906.4.

(3) The Corporation's Affirmative Action Officer will review all revisions submitted to the Corporation. If the revision is a substantial change from the originally approved Plan, the review procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section will be applicable. If the revision submitted is not a substantial change from the originally approved Plan, the Corporation's Affirmative Action Officer may approve the revision.
