
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 906 - AFFIRMATIVE ACTION POLICY AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart A - Development Program
##### ยง 906.7 Incentives.

(a) At the request of the developer, the Corporation may agree to deferral of a portion of rental, not to exceed 50 percent, during construction and during the first year of operation following construction of any phase of the development project. Allowable rent deferral during the construction phase will be two percent of the total base rent for each one percent of the value of all construction contracts which have been awarded to Minority Owned Businesses, not to exceed 50 percent. Rent deferral during the first year of operation following construction of any phase of the development project will be four percent for each one percent of total equity owned by minority group members, minority owned businesses, and women.

(b) Following review of Affirmative Action reports submitted to the Corporation pursuant to ยง 906.5(b), the Corporation will determine the developer's compliance with the goals set forth in the approved Affirmative Action Plan. Compliance with the goals established in the Plan will be measured by adding the percentages reported including overages in each category and dividing that by the number of categories covered in the Plan.

(c) If 75 percent compliance is not achieved during any rent deferral period, the Corporation will afford the developer 120 days to achieve at least that level of compliance. If, at the end of that 120 day period, 75 percent compliance is not achieved, all rental deferral, together with interest, will be due and payable to the Corporation on the 10th day following receipt of written notice that payment of the deferred rent has been accelerated.
