
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.29 Gateway National Recreation Area.
##### Off-road vehicle operation.

(b)(1) Operation of motor vehicles, (including the various forms of vehicles used for travel oversand, such as but not limited to, "beach buggies") on beaches or on designated oversand routes without a permit from the Superintendent is prohibited. Before a permit will be issued, each vehicle will be inspected to assure that it contains the following equipment which must be carried in the vehicle at all times while on the beaches or on the designated oversand routes:

(i) Shovel;

(ii) Jack;

(iii) Tow rope or chain;

(iv) Board or similar support;

(v) Low pressure tire gauge.

(2) Driving off designated, marked oversand routes or beaches is prohibited.

(3) Vehicles shall not be parked in designated oversand routes or interfere with moving traffic.

(4) When the process of freeing a vehicle which has been stuck results in ruts or holes, the ruts or holes shall be filled by the operator of such vehicle before it is removed from that area.

(5) The operation of a motorcycle on an oversand vehicle route or beach is prohibited.

(6) The Superintendent may establish limits on the number of oversand vehicles permitted on designated oversand routes and beaches when such limitations are necessary in the interest of public safety, protection of the ecological and environmental values of the area, coordination with other visitor uses.
