
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 907 - ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
#### ยง 907.5 Specific responsibilities of designated Corporation official.

(a) Coordinate the formulation and revision of Corporation policies and procedures on matters pertaining to environmental protection and enhancement.

(b) Establish and maintain working relationships with relevant government agencies concerned with environmental matters.

(c) Develop procedures within the Corporation's planning and decision-making processes to ensure that environmental factors are properly considered in all proposals and decisions in accordance with this part.

(d) Develop, monitor, and review the Corporation's implementation of standards, procedures, and working relationships for protection and enhancement of environmental quality and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

(e) Monitor processes to ensure that the Corporation's procedures regarding consideration of environmental quality are achieving their intended purposes.

(f) Advise the Board of Directors, officers, and employees of the Corporation of technical and management requirements of environmental analysis, of appropriate expertise available, and, with the assistance of the Office of the General Counsel, of relevant legal developments.

(g) Monitor the consideration and documentation of the environmental aspects of the Corporation's planning and decisionmaking processes by appropriate officers and employees of the Corporation.

(h) Ensure that all environmental assessments and, where required, all EIS's are prepared in accordance with the appropriate regulations adopted by the Council on Environmental Quality and the Corporation, and are submitted with all proposed legislation.

(i) Consolidate and transmit to appropriate parties the Corporation's comments on EIS's and other environmental reports prepared by other agencies.

(j) Acquire information and prepare appropriate reports on environmental matters required of the Corporation. Information collection activities will be conducted in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 and approval of OMB will be obtained prior to commencing such activities.

(k) Coordinate Corporation efforts to make available to other parties information and advice on the Corporation's policies for protecting and enhancing the quality of the environment.
