
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 907 - ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
#### ยง 907.12 Preparation of an environmental assessment.
##### Content and format.

(b)An environmental assessment is a concise public document used to determine whether to prepare an environmental impact statement. An environmental assessment aids in complying with the Act when no environmental impact statement is necessary, and it facilitates the preparation of an environmental impact statement, if one is necessary. The environmental assessment shall contain brief discussions of the following topics:

(1) Purpose and need for the proposed action.

(2) Description of the proposed action.

(3) Alternatives considered, including the No Action alternative.

(4) Environmental effects of the proposed action and alternative actions.

(5) Listing of agencies, organizations or persons consulted.

(6) In preparation of the environmental assessment, the most important or significant environmental consequences and effects on the areas listed below should be addressed. Only those areas which are specifically relevant to the particular proposal should be addressed. Those areas should be addressed in as much detail as is necessary to allow an analysis of the alternatives and the proposal. The areas to be considered are the following:

(i) Natural/ecological features (such as floodplain, wetlands, coastal zones, wildlife refuges, and endangered species);

(ii) Air quality;

(iii) Sound levels;

(iv) Water supply, wastewater treatment and water runoff;

(v) Energy requirements and conservation;

(vi) Solid waste;

(vii) Transportation;

(viii) Community facilities and services;

(ix) Social and economic;

(x) Historic and aesthetic; and

(xi) Other relevant factors.
