
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 908 - POLICY AND PROCEDURES TO FACILITATE THE RETENTION OF DISPLACED BUSINESSES AND RESIDENTS IN THE PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE DEVELOPMENT AREA
#### Subpart B - Preferential Right To Relocate
##### ยง 908.11 List of Qualified Persons.

(a) The Corporation shall develop and maintain a List of Qualified Persons who meet the criteria of Qualified Person as defined in ยง 908.10 and who ask to be placed on that list.

(b) The Corporation shall notify each occupant displaced by development provided an address is available to the Corporation, of this policy and the procedures to be followed for placement on the List.

(c) A person who wishes to be included on the List shall notify the Corporation in writing to that effect. The notice to the Corporation shall include:

(1) The address of the Previous Location;

(2) A short statement indicating the nature of the Qualified Person's occupancy;

(3) The amounts and type of space occupied prior to displacement;

(4) A description of any specialized equipment or unusual requirements for occupancy; and

(5) A copy of the notice to vacate from the Developer or notice of initiation of negotiations from the Corporation if either of these was received by the Qualified Person.

(d) The Corporation shall:

(1) Review the information furnished by the Person including any notice;

(2) Request additional information, if necessary to make a determination of the Person's qualifications;

(3) Determine whether the Person is qualified to be listed, and if so place the Person on the list; and

(4) Notify the Person of its determination.

(e) The Corporation urges that any Person who wishes to be placed on the List request such placement as soon as the Person meets the criteria for Qualified Person established in ยง 908.10, and all Persons are encouraged to do so no later than one year of the time the Person is displaced in order to increase the opportunity to obtain Newly Developed Space. However, no Person shall be denied placement on the List because such placement was not requested within one year of displacement.
