
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 908 - POLICY AND PROCEDURES TO FACILITATE THE RETENTION OF DISPLACED BUSINESSES AND RESIDENTS IN THE PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE DEVELOPMENT AREA
#### Subpart B - Preferential Right To Relocate
##### § 908.13 Rights of Qualified Persons.

(a) As provided in §§ 908.14(c) and 908.15(b), each Qualified Person on the List shall receive notices of opportunities to occupy Newly Developed Space as opportunities become available.

(b) As provided in §§ 908.14(d) and 908.15(c), each Qualified Person on the List shall be notified of any subsequent changes in the leasing plan which are, in the Corporation's opinion, major.

(c) Each Qualified Person on the List, who is interested in negotiating for occupancy of Newly Developed Space shall, within two weeks after receiving notice of a tenanting opportunity, provide written notice of its interest in the tenanting opportunity to the Developer, and furnish a copy of the written notice to the Corporation.

(d) Each Qualified Person on the List who provides a written notice of interest shall have ninety days following the Developer's receipt of the notice of interest for exclusive negotiations with the Developer for occupancy of the Developer's Newly Developed Space. During the ninety day period the Developer, subject to §§ 908.14 and 908.15 of this rule, shall not negotiate tenanting opportunities for the same Newly Developed Space requested by the Qualified Person with other than Qualified Persons.

(e) A Qualified Person's opportunity to occupy Newly Developed Space shall not be limited to the square on which its previous location was situated but extends throughout the Development Area. Similarly, no Qualified Person has an absolute right to return to the square where previous location was situated.

(f) A Qualified Person's opportunity to occupy space may be exercised in the Development Area at any time during the Corporation's existence, but such opportunity may only be exercised within Newly Developed Space.

(g) A Qualified Person has one opportunity to occupy Newly Developed Space for each location in the Development Area from which it is displaced.

(h) The Corporation cannot assure any Qualified Person that it will be relocated to Newly Developed Space.
