
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.32 Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore.
##### Developed public use areas.

(2)(i) The area within 150 yards of any campsite located within the Little Beaver, Twelvemile Beach, and Hurricane River Campgrounds.

(ii) The area within 150 yards of the Miners Castle overlooks, paved walkways and vehicle parking lot. Also 100 feet from the centerline of the paved Miners Castle Road and the area within 100 feet of Miners Falls parking lot, trail and associated platforms.

(iii) The area within 100 feet of: the Chapel Falls parking lot; the Little Beaver backpacker parking lot; the Twelvemile Beach picnic area parking lot; the Log Slide parking lot, platforms and walkways; the Grand Sable Lake picnic area and parking lot; the Grand Sable Lake boat launch and parking lot; the Grand Sable Lake overlook parking lot.

(iv) The area within 150 yards of any structure at the Au Sable Light Station, and within 100 feet of the trail between the lower Hurricane River Campground and the light station.

(v) The area within 150 yards of the Sable Falls parking lot and building, including the viewing platforms and associated walkway system to the mouth of Sable Creek. Also included is the area 100 feet from the centerline of the paved Sable Falls Road.

(vi) The area within 150 yards of: the Grand Sable Visitor Center parking lot and barn; the structures comprising the Grand Marais quarters and maintenance facility.

(vii) The 8.6 acre tract comprising structures and lands administered by the National Park Service on Coast Guard Point in Grand Marais.
