
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter IX - Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
### PART 910 - GENERAL GUIDELINES AND UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR URBAN PLANNING AND DESIGN OF DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE DEVELOPMENT AREA
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 910.3 Program administration.
###### development,the Plan.,development,the Plan,

(b) Pursuant to section 7(b) of the Act, each proposal forwithin the Development Area must be submitted to the Corporation to determine its consistency withThe Corporation's adopted development policy, entitled "Development Policies and Procedures," sets forth the process for this determination. In determining whether aproposal is consistent withthe Corporation shall review the proposal against all adopted Corporation programs, policies, and regulations, including:

(1) This part 910.

(2) Square Guidelines.

(3) Development Policies and Procedures.

(4) Historic Preservation Plan.

(5) Energy Guidelines.

(6) Side Street Improvements Program.

(7) Policy on Environmental Quality and Control (36 CFR part 907).

(8) Pennsylvania Avenue Lighting Plan.

(9) Public Improvements Program.

(10) Affirmative Action Policy and Procedure (36 CFR part 906).

(11) Policy and Procedures to Facilitate Successful Relocation of Businesses and Residents within the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Area.

(12) All other programs, policies, and regulations that may be approved and adopted by the Board of Directors from time to time.
