
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.33 Voyageurs National Park.
##### Snowmobiles.

(b)(1) The following lakes and trails within Voyageurs National Park are open to snowmobile use:

(i) The frozen waters of Rainy, Kabetogama, Namakan, Mukooda, Little Trout and Sand Point Lakes.

(ii) The Moose River Railroad Grade from the park boundary north to Ash River, and then east to Moose Bay, Namakan Lake.

(iii) The portage trail between Grassy Bay and Little Trout Lake.

(iv) The Chain of Lakes Trail from its intersection with the Black Bay to Moose Bay portage, across Locator, War Club, Quill, Loiten, and Shoepack Lakes, to Kabetogama Lake.

(2) Snowmobile use is allowed across the following marked safety portages: Black Bay to Moose Bay, Lost Bay to Saginaw Bay, Laurins Bay to Kettle Falls, Squirrel Narrows, Squaw Narrows, Grassy Bay, Namakan Narrows, Swansons Bay, Mukooda Lake to Sand Point Lake (north), Mukooda Lake to Sand Point Lake (south), Mukooda Lake to Crane Lake, Tar Point, Kohler Bay, and Sullivan Bay to Kabetogama Lake.

(3) The Superintendent may determine yearly opening and closing dates for snowmobile use, and temporarily close trails or lake surfaces, taking into consideration public safety, wildlife management, weather, and park management objectives.

(4) Maps showing the designated routes are available at park headquarters and at ranger stations.

(5) Snowmobile use outside open designated routes and lake surfaces is prohibited.
