
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1002 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 1002.4 Weapons, traps and nets.

(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the following are prohibited:

(i) Possessing a weapon, trap or net.

(ii) Carrying a weapon, trap or net.

(iii) Using a weapon, trap or net.

(2) Weapons, traps or nets may be carried, possessed or used:

(i) At designated times and locations in the area administered by the Presidio Trust where:

(A) The taking of wildlife is authorized by law in accordance with ยง 1002.2;

(B) The taking of fish is authorized by law in accordance with ยง 1002.3.

(ii) Within a residential dwelling. For purposes of this paragraph only, the term "residential dwelling" means a fixed housing structure which is either the principal residence of its occupants, or is occupied on a regular and recurring basis by its occupants as an alternate residence or vacation home.

(3) Traps, nets and unloaded weapons may be possessed within a temporary lodging or mechanical mode of conveyance when such implements are rendered temporarily inoperable or are packed, cased or stored in a manner that will prevent their ready use.

(b) Carrying or possessing a loaded weapon in a motor vehicle, vessel or other mode of transportation is prohibited, except that carrying or possessing a loaded weapon in a vessel is allowed when such vessel is not being propelled by machinery and is used as a shooting platform in accordance with Federal and State law.

(c) The use of a weapon, trap or net in a manner that endangers persons or property is prohibited.

(d) Authorized Federal, State and local law enforcement officers may carry firearms in the performance of their official duties.

(e) The carrying or possessing of a weapon, trap or net in violation of applicable Federal and State laws is prohibited.

(f) The regulations contained in this section apply, regardless of land ownership, on all lands and waters within the boundaries of the area administered by the Presidio Trust that are under the legislative jurisdiction of the United States.
