
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1002 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 1002.13 Fires.

(a) The following are prohibited:

(1) Lighting or maintaining a fire, except in designated areas or receptacles and under conditions that may be established by the Board.

(2) Using stoves or lanterns in violation of established restrictions.

(3) Lighting, tending, or using a fire, stove or lantern in a manner that threatens, causes damage to, or results in the burning of property, real property or resources of the area administered by the Presidio Trust, or creates a public safety hazard.

(4) Leaving a fire unattended.

(5) Throwing or discarding lighted or smoldering material in a manner that threatens, causes damage to, or results in the burning of property or resources of the area administered by the Presidio Trust, or creates a public safety hazard.

(b) Fires shall be extinguished upon termination of use and in accordance with such conditions as may be established by the Board. Violation of these conditions is prohibited.

(c) During periods of high fire danger, the Executive Director may close all or a portion of the area administered by the Presidio Trust to the lighting or maintaining of a fire.

(d) The regulations contained in this section apply, regardless of land ownership, on all lands and waters within the boundaries of the area administered by the Presidio Trust that are under the legislative jurisdiction of the United States.
