
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1002 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 1002.17 Aircraft and air delivery.

(a) Delivering or retrieving a person or object by parachute, helicopter, or other airborne means, except in emergencies involving public safety or serious property loss, or pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit, is prohibited.

(b) The provisions of this section, other than paragraph (c) of this section, shall not be applicable to official business of the Federal government, or emergency rescues in accordance with the directions of the Executive Director, or to landings due to circumstances beyond the control of the operator.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the owners of a downed aircraft shall remove the aircraft and all component parts thereof in accordance with procedures established by the Executive Director. In establishing removal procedures, the Executive Director is authorized to establish a reasonable date by which aircraft removal operations must be complete; determine times and means of access to and from the downed aircraft; and specify the manner or method of removal.

(2) Failure to comply with procedures and conditions established under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is prohibited.

(3) The Executive Director may waive the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section or prohibit the removal of downed aircraft, upon a determination that the removal of downed aircraft would constitute an unacceptable risk to human life; the removal of a downed aircraft would result in extensive resource damage; or the removal of a downed aircraft is impracticable or impossible.

(d) The use of aircraft shall be in accordance with regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration as found in 14 CFR chapter I.

(e) The operation or use of hovercraft is prohibited.

(f) Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.

(g) The use of devices designed to carry persons through the air in powerless flight is allowed at times and locations designated by the Board, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit.
