
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1002 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 1002.22 Property.
##### Disposition of property.

(c)(1) Unattended property impounded pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be abandoned unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof within 60 days. The 60-day period shall begin when the rightful owner of the property has been notified, if the owner can be identified, or from the time the property was placed in the Executive Director's custody, if the owner cannot be identified.

(2) Unclaimed, found property shall be stored for a minimum period of 60 days and, unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof, may be claimed by the finder, provided that the finder is not an employee of the Presidio Trust. Found property not claimed by the owner or an authorized representative or the finder shall be deemed abandoned.

(3) Abandoned property shall be disposed of in accordance with law.

(4) Property, including real property, located within the area administered by the Presidio Trust and owned by a deceased person, shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws of the State within whose exterior boundaries the property is located.

(d) The regulations contained in paragraphs (a)(2), (b) and (c) of this section apply, regardless of land ownership, on all lands and waters within the boundaries of the area administered by the Presidio Trust that are under the legislative jurisdiction of the United States.
