
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1002 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 1002.51 Public assemblies, meetings.

(a) Public assemblies, meetings, gatherings, demonstrations, parades and other public expressions of views are allowed within the area administered by the Presidio Trust, provided a permit therefor has been issued by the Executive Director.

(b) An application for such a permit shall set forth the name of the applicant; the date, time, duration, nature and place of the proposed event; an estimate of the number of persons expected to attend; a statement of equipment and facilities to be used and any other information required by the permit application form.

(c) The Executive Director shall, without unreasonable delay, issue a permit on proper application unless:

(1) A prior application for a permit for the same time and place has been made that has been or will be granted and the activities authorized by that permit do not reasonably allow multiple occupancy of that particular area; or

(2) It reasonably appears that the event will present a clear and present danger to the public health or safety; or

(3) The event is of such nature or duration that it cannot reasonably be accommodated in the particular location applied for, considering such things as damage to resources or facilities of the area administered by the Presidio Trust, impairment of a protected area's atmosphere of peace and tranquillity, interference with program activities, or impairment of public use facilities.

(d) If a permit is denied, the applicant shall be so informed in writing, with the reason(s) for the denial set forth.

(e) The Board shall designate on a map, that shall be available in the office of the Presidio Trust, the locations available for public assemblies. Locations may be designated as not available only if such activities would:

(1) Cause injury or damage to resources of the area administered by the Presidio Trust; or

(2) Unreasonably impair the atmosphere of peace and tranquillity maintained in wilderness, natural, historic or commemorative zones; or

(3) Unreasonably interfere with interpretive, visitor service, or other program activities, or with the administrative activities of the Presidio Trust or the National Park Service; or

(4) Substantially impair the operation of public use facilities or services of Presidio Trust concessioners or contractors; or

(5) Present a clear and present danger to the public health and safety.

(f) The permit may contain such conditions as are reasonably consistent with protection and use of the area administered by the Presidio Trust for the purposes of the Presidio Trust Act. It may also contain reasonable limitations on the equipment used and the time and area within which the event is allowed.

(g) No permit shall be issued for a period in excess of 7 days, provided that permits may be extended for like periods, upon a new application, unless another applicant has requested use of the same location and multiple occupancy of that location is not reasonably possible.

(h) It is prohibited for persons engaged in activities covered under this section to obstruct or impede pedestrians or vehicles, or harass visitors with physical contact.

(i) A permit may be revoked under any of those conditions, as listed in paragraph (c) of this section, that constitute grounds for denial of a permit, or for violation of the terms and conditions of the permit. Such a revocation shall be made in writing, with the reason(s) for revocation clearly set forth, except under emergency circumstances, when an immediate verbal revocation or suspension may be made to be followed by written confirmation within 72 hours.

(j) Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.
