
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1002 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 1002.60 Livestock use and agriculture.
##### Impounding of livestock.

(c)(1) Livestock trespassing within the area administered by the Presidio Trust may be impounded by the Executive Director and, if not claimed by the owner within the periods specified in this paragraph, shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable Federal and State law.

(2) In the absence of applicable Federal or State law, the livestock shall be disposed of in the following manner:

(i) If the owner is known, prompt written notice of impoundment will be served, and in the event of the owner's failure to remove the impounded livestock within five (5) days from delivery of such notice, it will be disposed of in accordance with this paragraph.

(ii) If the owner is unknown, disposal of the livestock shall not be made until at least fifteen (15) days have elapsed from the date that a notice of impoundment is originally published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the trespass occurs or, if no such newspaper exists, notification is provided by other appropriate means.

(iii) The owner may redeem the livestock by submitting proof of ownership and paying all expenses of the United States for capturing, advertising, pasturing, feeding, impounding, and the amount of damage to public property injured or destroyed as a result of the trespass.

(iv) In determining the claim of the government in a livestock trespass, the value of forage consumed shall be computed at the commercial rates prevailing in the locality for the class of livestock found in trespass. The claim shall include the pro rata salary of employees for the time spent and the expenses incurred as a result of the investigation, reporting, and settlement or prosecution of the claim.

(v) If livestock impounded under this paragraph is offered at public sale and no bid is received, or if the highest bid received is less than the amount of the claim of the United States or of the officer's appraised value of the livestock, whichever is the lesser amount, such livestock, may be sold at private sale for the highest amount obtainable, condemned and destroyed, or converted to the use of the United States.
