
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1007 - REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 1007.3 Requests for records.
##### Form of perfected requests.

(b)(1) Requests under this part shall be in writing and should specifically invoke the FOIA.

(2) A request must reasonably describe the records requested. A request reasonably describes the records requested if it will enable an employee of the Presidio Trust familiar with the subject area of the request to locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort. If such information is available, the request should identify the subject matter of the record, the date when it was made, the place where it was made, the person or office that made it, the present custodian of the record, and any other information that will assist in locating the requested record. If the request involves a matter known by the requester to be in litigation, the request should also state the case name and court hearing the case. If after receiving a request the FOIA Officer determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the FOIA Officer will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA Officer. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Presidio Trust's response to the request may be delayed or an adverse determination under ยง 1007.5(e).

(3)(i) A perfected request shall:

(A) Specify the fee category (commercial use, educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, news media, or other, as defined in ยง 1007.9) in which the requester claims the request falls and the basis of this claim;

(B) State the maximum amount of fees that the requester is willing to pay or include a request for a fee waiver; and

(C) Provide contact information for the requester, such as phone number, email address and/or mailing address, to assist the Presidio Trust in communicating with them and providing released records.

(ii) Requesters who make requests for records about themselves must verify their identity.
