
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1007 - REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 1007.4 Preliminary processing of requests.
##### Referral.

(ii)(A) When the Presidio Trust believes that another department or agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the Presidio Trust will refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding the record to that department or agency. Ordinarily, the department or agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best entity to make the disclosure determination. However, if the Presidio Trust and the originating department or agency jointly agree that the Presidio Trust is in the best position to respond to the request, then the record may be handled as a consultation.

(B) If the Presidio Trust refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another department or agency, the Presidio Trust will document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name(s) of the department or agency to which the record was referred, including that entity's FOIA contact information.

(2) Timing of responses to consultations and referrals. All consultations and referrals received by the Presidio Trust will be handled according to the date that the Presidio Trust received the perfected FOIA request.

(3) A request for documents that were classified by another agency shall be referred to that agency.
