
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1007 - REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 1007.4 Preliminary processing of requests.
##### Consultation with submitters of commercial and financial information.

(c)(1) If a request seeks a record containing trade secrets or commercial or financial information submitted by any person or entity, including a corporation, State, Native American tribe or nation, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, the Presidio Trust shall provide the submitter with notice of the request whenever:

(i) The submitter has made a good faith designation of the information as commercially or financially sensitive; or

(ii) The Presidio Trust has reason to believe that disclosure of the information may result in commercial or financial injury to the submitter.

(2) Where notification of a voluminous number of submitters is required, such notification may be accomplished by posting or publishing the notice in a place reasonably calculated to accomplish notification.

(3) The notice to the submitter shall afford the submitter a reasonable period within which to provide a detailed statement of any objection to disclosure. The submitter's statement shall explain the basis on which the information is claimed to be exempt under the FOIA, including a specification of any claim of competitive or other business harm that would result from disclosure. The statement shall also include a certification that the information is confidential, has not been disclosed to the public by the submitter, and is not routinely available to the public from other sources.

(4) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice will be deemed to have no objection to disclosure of the information. The Presidio Trust shall not be required to consider any information received from the submitter after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.

(5) The Presidio Trust will notify the requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.

(6) If a submitter's statement cannot be obtained within the time limit for processing the request under ยง 1007.6, the requester shall be notified of the delay as provided in ยง 1007.6(f).

(7) Notification to a submitter is not required if:

(i) The Presidio Trust determines, prior to giving notice, that the request for the record should be denied;

(ii) The information has previously been lawfully published or officially made available to the public;

(iii) Disclosure is required by a statute (other than the FOIA) or regulation (other than this part);

(iv) Disclosure is clearly prohibited by a statute, as described in ยง 1007.2(c)(3);

(v) The information was not designated by the submitter as confidential when it was submitted, or a reasonable time thereafter, if the submitter was specifically afforded an opportunity to make such a designation; however, a submitter will be notified of a request for information that was not designated as confidential at the time of submission, or a reasonable time thereafter, if there is substantial reason to believe that disclosure of the information would result in competitive harm;

(vi) The designation of confidentiality made by the submitter is obviously frivolous; or

(vii) The information was submitted to the Presidio Trust more than ten years prior to the date of the request, unless the Presidio Trust has reason to believe that it continues to be confidential.

(8) If a requester brings suit to compel disclosure of information, the submitter of the information will be promptly notified.
