
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1007 - REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
#### ยง 1007.8 Action on appeals.
##### Extensions of time.

(c)(1) If the time limit for responding to the initial request for a record was not extended under the provisions of ยง 1007.6(c) or was extended for fewer than ten working days, the time for processing of the appeal may be extended to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the appeal, but in no event may the extension, when taken together with any extension made during processing of the initial request, result in an aggregate extension with respect to any one request of more than ten working days. The time for processing of an appeal may be extended only if one or more of the unusual circumstances listed in ยง 1007.6(c) requires an extension.

(2) The appellant shall be advised in writing of the reasons for the extension and the date on which a final determination on the appeal is expected to be dispatched.

(3) If no determination on the appeal has been reached at the end of the 20 working day period, or the extension thereof, the requester is deemed to have exhausted administrative remedies, giving rise to a right of review in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4).

(4) When no determination can be reached within the applicable time limit, the appeal will nevertheless continue to be processed. On expiration of the time limit, the requester shall be informed of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be reached to be dispatched, of the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services, and of the right to seek judicial review.

(5) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
