
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1008 - REQUESTS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 1008.14 Requests for access to records: Submission.
##### Form of request.

(b)(1) A request for access to records subject to the Privacy Act shall be in writing and addressed to Privacy Act Officer, The Presidio Trust, P.O. Box 29052, San Francisco, CA 94129-0052.

(2) To expedite processing, both the envelope containing a request and the face of the request should bear the legend "PRIVACY ACT REQUEST FOR ACCESS."

(3) Requesters shall specify whether they seek all of the records contained in the system which relate to them or only some portion thereof. If only a portion of the records which relate to the individual are sought, the request shall reasonably describe the specific record or records sought.

(4) If the requester seeks to have copies of the requested records made, the request shall state the maximum amount of copying fees which the requester is willing to pay. A request which does not state the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay will be treated as a request to inspect the requested records. Requesters are further notified that under ยง 1008.15(d) the failure to state willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated by the Presidio Trust will delay processing of a request.

(5) The request shall supply such identifying information, if any, as is called for in the system notice describing the system.

(6) The request must include verification of the requester's identity, including the requester's full name, current address, and date and place of birth. The request must be signed by the requester, and the signature must be notarized or submitted under 28 U.S.C. 1746, which permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization.

(7) If the request is made on behalf of a minor or someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, the requester must establish:

(i) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at the requester's option, the Social Security number of the individual;

(ii) The requester's identity, as required in paragraph 6 above of this section;

(iii) That the requester is the parent or guardian of that individual, which the requester may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing the requester's parentage or by providing a court order establishing the requester's guardianship; and

(iv) That the requester is acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.

(8) Requests failing to meet the requirements of this paragraph shall be returned to the requester with a written notice advising the requester of the deficiency in the request.
