
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1008 - REQUESTS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 1008.15 Requests for access to records: Initial decision.
##### Form of decision.

(d)(1) No particular form is required for a decision granting access to a record. The decision shall, however, advise the individual requesting the record as to where and when the record is available for inspection or, as the case may be, where and when copies will be available. If fees are due under ยง 1008.15(e), the individual requesting the record shall also be notified of the amount of fees due or, if the exact amount has not been determined, the approximate amount of fees due.

(2) A decision denying a request for access, in whole or part, shall be in writing and shall:

(i) State the basis for denial of the request;

(ii) Contain a statement that the denial may be appealed to the Executive Director pursuant to ยง 1008.16 by writing to the Executive Director, The Presidio Trust, P.O. Box 29052, San Francisco, CA 94129-0052; and

(iii) State that the appeal must be received by the foregoing official within 20 working days of the date of the decision.

(3) If the decision denying a request for access involves records which fall under the jurisdiction of another agency, the individual shall be informed in a written response which shall:

(i) State the reasons for the denial;

(ii) Include the name, position title, and address of the official responsible for the denial; and

(iii) Advise the individual that an appeal of the declination may be made only to the appropriate official of the relevant agency, and include that official's name, position title, and address.

(4) Copies of decisions denying requests for access made pursuant to paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section will be provided to the Privacy Act Officer.
