
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1008 - REQUESTS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT
#### ยง 1008.19 Petitions for amendment: Submission and form.
##### Form of petition.

(b)(1) A petition for amendment shall be in writing, shall specifically identify the record for which amendment is sought, and shall be addressed to the Privacy Act Officer, The Presidio Trust, P.O. Box 29052, San Francisco, CA 94129-0052.

(2) To expedite processing, both the envelope containing a petition and the face of the petition should bear the legend "PRIVACY ACT PETITION FOR AMENDMENT."

(3) The petition shall state, in detail, the reasons why the petitioner believes the record, or the objectionable portion thereof, is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete. Copies of documents or evidence relied upon in support of these reasons shall be submitted with the petition.

(4) The petition shall state, specifically and in detail, the changes sought in the record. If the changes involve rewriting the record or portions thereof or involve adding new language to the record, the petition shall propose specific language to implement the changes.

(5) The petition must include verification of the petitioner's identity, including the petitioner's full name, current address, and date and place of birth. The petition must be signed by the petitioner, and the signature must be notarized or submitted under 28 U.S.C. 1746, which permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization.

(6) If the petition is made on behalf of a minor or someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, the petitioner must establish:

(i) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at the petitioner's option, the Social Security number of the individual;

(ii) The petitioner's identity, as required in paragraph 5 above of this section;

(iii) That the petitioner is the parent or guardian of that individual, which the petitioner may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing the petitioner's parentage or by providing a court order establishing the petitioner's guardianship; and

(iv) That the petitioner is acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.

(7) Petitions failing to meet the requirements of this paragraph shall be returned to the petitioner with a written notice advising the petitioner of the deficiency in the petition.
