
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1011 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Presidio Trust Debts
##### ยง 1011.10 How will the Presidio Trust use administrative offset (offset of non-tax federal payments) to collect a debt?
###### Administrative review.

(c)The notice described in ยง 1011.4 of this part will explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of the Presidio Trust determination that the debtor owes a debt and how to present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, the Presidio Trust will provide the debtor with a "paper hearing" based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. The Presidio Trust will provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Presidio Trust determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although the Presidio Trust will document all significant matters presented at the hearing. The Presidio Trust may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute. The Presidio Trust may establish policies, guidelines and procedures concerning the administrative review process consistent with the FCCS and the regulations in this section.
