
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1011 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Presidio Trust Debts
##### § 1011.13 How will the Presidio Trust use administrative wage garnishment to collect a debt from a debtor's wages?
###### Authority and process.

(a)The Presidio Trust is authorized to collect debts from a debtor's wages by means of administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the requirements of the FCCS and other applicable law. This part adopts and incorporates all of the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11 concerning administrative wage garnishment, including the hearing procedures described therein. The Presidio Trust may use administrative wage garnishment to collect a delinquent debt unless the debtor is making timely payments under an agreement to pay the debt in installments (see § 1011.6 of this part). At least 30 days prior to initiating an administrative wage garnishment, the Presidio Trust will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 1011.4 of this part, including the requirements of § 1011.4(a)(10) of this part. For debts referred to the FMS under § 1011.9 of this part, the Presidio Trust may authorize the FMS to send a notice informing the debtor that administrative wage garnishment will be initiated and how the debtor may request a hearing as described in § 1011.4(a)(10) of this part. If a debtor makes a timely request for a hearing, administrative wage garnishment will not begin until a hearing is held and a decision is sent to the debtor. If a debtor's hearing request is not timely, the Presidio Trust may suspend collection by administrative wage garnishment. All travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor.
