
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter X - Presidio Trust
### PART 1012 - LEGAL PROCESS: TESTIMONY BY EMPLOYEES AND PRODUCTION OF RECORDS
#### General Information
##### ยง 1012.1 What does this part cover?

(a) This part describes how the Presidio Trust responds to requests or subpoenas for:

(1) Testimony by employees in State, territorial or Tribal judicial, legislative or administrative proceedings concerning information acquired while performing official duties or because of an employee's official status;

(2) Testimony by employees in Federal court civil proceedings in which the United States or the Presidio Trust is not a party concerning information acquired while performing official duties or because of an employee's official status;

(3) Testimony by employees in any judicial or administrative proceeding in which the United States or the Presidio Trust, while not a party, has a direct and substantial interest;

(4) Official records or certification of such records for use in Federal, State, territorial or Tribal judicial, legislative or administrative proceedings.

(b) In this part, "employee" means a current or former Presidio Trust employee, or Board member, including a contractor or special government employee, except as the Presidio Trust may otherwise determine in a particular case.

(c) This part does not apply to:

(1) Congressional requests or subpoenas for testimony or records;

(2) Federal court civil proceedings in which the United States or the Presidio Trust is a party;

(3) Federal administrative proceedings;

(4) Federal, State and Tribal criminal court proceedings;

(5) Employees who voluntarily testify, while on their own time or in approved leave status, as private citizens as to facts or events that are not related to the official business of the Presidio Trust. The employee must state for the record that the testimony represents the employee's own views and is not necessarily the official position of the Presidio Trust. See 5 CFR 2635.702(b), 2635.807(b).

(6) Testimony by employees as expert witnesses on subjects outside their official duties, except that they must obtain prior approval if required by ยง 1012.11.

(d) This part does not affect the rights of any individual or the procedures for obtaining records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), Privacy Act, or statutes governing the certification of official records. The Presidio Trust FOIA and Privacy Act regulations are found at parts 1007 and 1008 of this chapter.

(e) Nothing in this part is intended to impede the appropriate disclosure under applicable laws of Presidio Trust information to Federal, State, territorial, Tribal, or foreign law enforcement, prosecutorial, or regulatory agencies.

(f) This part only provides guidance for the internal operations of the Presidio Trust, and neither creates nor is intended to create any enforceable right or benefit against the United States or the Presidio Trust.
