
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1120 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Published Information
##### ยง 1120.5 Information published in the Federal Register.
###### General.

(a)In accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1), basic information concerning the organization, operations, functions, substantive and procedural rules and regulations, officials, office locations, and allocation of responsibilities for functions and programs of the A&TBCB is published in thefor the guidance of the public. This information includes-

(1) Description of the A&TBCB's organization and the established places at which, the employees from whom, and the methods whereby the public may obtain information, make submittals or requests, or obtain decisions;

(2) Statements of the general course and method by which the A&TBCB's functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of all formal and informal procedures available;

(3) Rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions as to the scope and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations;

(4) Substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general policy or interpretations of general applicability formulated and adopted by the A&TBCB, and

(5) Each amendment, revision, or repeal of the foregoing. Indexes to theare published in each daily issue and compiled currently on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis. Copies of theand its indexes are available in many libraries and may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. No formal request to examine documents in theis necessary to inspect them at the place where they are kept. Materials incorporated by reference in theare available for inspection in A&TBCB offices.
