
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1120 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart D - Information Available Upon Request
##### ยง 1120.21 Policy on disclosure of records.

(a) It is the policy of the A&TBCB to make information available to the public to the greatest extent possible in keeping with the spirit of the Freedom of Information Act. Therefore, all records of the A&TBCB, except those that the A&TBCB specifically determines must not be disclosed in the national interest, for the protection of private rights, or for the efficient conduct of public business to the extent permitted by the Freedom of Information Act, are declared to be available for public inspection and copying as provided in this part. Each member and employee of the A&TBCB is directed to cooperate to this end and to make records available to the public promptly and to the fullest extent consistent with this policy. A record may not be withheld from the public solely because its release might suggest administrative error or embarrass a member or employee of the A&TBCB.

(b) Subject to ยง 1120.51, any nonexempt A&TBCB record is available to the public upon request regardless of whether the requestor shows any justification or need for the record.

(c) An A&TBCB office may waive the procedures on this subpart in favor of the requestor, for reasons of the public interest, simplicity, or speed.

(d) If a requested record contains both exempt and nonexempt material, the nonexempt material shall be disclosed, after the exempt material has been deleted in accordance with ยง 1120.42.
