
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### § 7.45 Everglades National Park.
##### Fishing.

(d)(1) Fishing restrictions, based on management objectives described in the park's Resources Management Plan, are established annually by the Superintendent.

(2) The Superintendent may impose closures and establish conditions or restrictions, in accordance with procedures found at §§ 1.5 and 1.7 of this chapter, on any activity pertaining to fishing, including, but not limited to species of fish that may be taken, seasons and hours during which fishing may take place, methods of taking, and size, creel and possession limits.

(3) The following waters are closed to fishing:

(i) All waters of T. 58 S., R. 37 E., sections 10 through 15, inclusive, measured from Tallahassee meridian and base, in the vicinity of Royal Palm Visitor Center, except Hole in the Donut or Hidden Lake, and Pine Island Lake.

(ii) All waters in T.54 S., R. 36 E., sections 19, 30, and 31, and in T. 55 S., R. 36 E., sections 6, 7, 18, 19, and 30, measured from Tallahassee meridian and base, in the vicinity of Shark Valley Loop Road from Tamiami Trail south.

(4) A person engaged in guide fishing must possess a guide fishing permit issued by the Superintendent and administered under the terms of § 1.6 of this chapter. Guide fishing without a valid permit is prohibited.

(5) Except for taking finfish, shrimp, bait, crabs, and oysters, as provided in this section or as modified under 36 CFR 1.5, the taking, possession, or disturbance of any fresh or saltwater aquatic life is prohibited.

(6) Methods of taking. Except as provided in this section, only a closely attended hook and line may be used for fishing activities within the park.

(i) Crabbing for stone or blue crabs may be conducted using attended gear only and no more than five (5) traps per person. Persons using traps must remain within one hundred (100) feet of those traps. Unattended gear or use of more than five (5) traps per person is prohibited.

(ii) Shrimp, mullet, and bait fish (minnows, pilchards, pinfish, mojarras, ballyhoo or bait mullet (less than eight (8) inches in total length) may be taken with hook and line, dipnet (not exceeding 3 feet at its widest point) or cast net, for use as bait or personal consumption.

(iii) A dipnet or cast net may not be dragged, trawled, or held suspended in the water.

(7) Tagging, marking, fin clipping, mutilation or other disturbance to a caught fish, prior to release is prohibited without written authorization from the Superintendent.

(8) Fish may not be fileted while in the park, except that:

(i) Up to four (4) filets per person may be produced for immediate cooking and consumption at designated campsites or on board vessels equipped with cooking facilities.

(ii) Fish may be fileted while at the designated park fish cleaning facilities, before transportation to their final destination.

(9) Nets and gear that are legal to use in State waters, and fish and other edible or non-edible sea life that are legally acquired in State waters but are illegal to possess in the waters of Everglades National Park may be transported through the park only over Indian Key Pass, Sand Fly Pass, Rabbit Key Pass, Chokoloskee Pass and across Chokoloskee Bay, along the most direct route to or from Everglades City, Chokoloskee Island or Fakahatchee Bay.

(i) Boats traveling through these passages with such nets, gear, fish, or other edible products of the sea must remain in transit unless disabled or weather and sea conditions combine to make safe passage impossible, at which time the boats may be anchored to await assistance or better conditions.

(ii) [Reserved]
