
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1120 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart D - Information Available Upon Request
##### ยง 1120.32 A&TBCB action on requests.

(a) The FOIA Officer is delegated the authority to issue initial determinations concerning records which he or she believes are in the custody of a Board member, an employee of a member's agency, or an employee of a public member. When the FOIA Officer receives such a request, he or she shall forward it to the member, employee of a member agency, or employee of a public member whom the FOIA Officer believes to have custody of the records, requesting the records. The person to whom the request is forwarded shall, within three days of receipt of the FOIA Officer's request, either furnish the records requested to the FOIA Officer or inform the FOIA Officer of the time when they will be furnished. The FOIA Officer shall then determine whether or not to disclose the documents. For purposes of such requests and their processing under this subpart, the FOIA Officer is considered the office handling the requests.

(b) Heads of staff offices are delegated the authority to issue initial determinations, other records which are in their respective custody.

(c) Whenever an A&TBCB office receives a request forwarded by the FOIA Officer, the office should:

(1) Take action under ยง 1120.26, if required, to obtain a better description of the records requested;

(2) Locate the records as promptly as possible, or determine that:

(i) The records are not known to exist; or

(ii) They are located at another A&TBCB office; or

(iii) They are located at another Federal agency and not possessed by the A&TBCB.

(3) When appropriate, take action under ยง 1120.53(b) to obtain payment or assurance of payment;
