
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### § 7.45 Everglades National Park.
##### Boating.

(e)(1) The Superintendent may close an area to all motorized vessels, or vessels with motors greater than a specified horsepower, or impose other restrictions as necessary, in accordance with §§ 1.5 and 1.7 of this chapter.

(2) For purposes of this section, a vessel in which the motor(s) is (are) removed from the gunnels or transom and stored to be inoperable, is considered to be not motorized.

(3) The following areas are closed to all vessels:

(i) T. 54 S., R. 36 E., sections 19, 30, 31; T. 55 S., R. 36 E., sections 6, 7, 18, 19, and 30, bordering the Shark Valley Loop Road from the Tamiami Trail south.

(ii) Eco Pond, Mrazek Pond, Royal Palm Ponds except for Hidden Lake, Parachute Key ponds north of the Main Park Road, and Lake Chekika.

(4) The following inland fresh water areas are closed to the use of motorized vessels: Coot Bay Pond, Nine Mile Pond, Paurotis Pond, Sweetbay Pond, Big Ficus Pond, Sisal Pond, Pine Glade Lake, Long Pine Key Lake, Tower Lake, Hidden Lake, Pine Island, and L-67 canal.

(5) The following coastal waters, designated by statute as wilderness (Pub. L. 95-625), are closed to the use of motorized vessels: Mud, Bear, East Fox, Middle Fox, Little Fox, and Gator Lakes; Homestead Canal; all associated small lakes on Cape Sable inland from Lake Ingraham; Cuthbert, Henry, Little Henry, Seven Palm, Middle, Monroe, Long, and the Lungs Lakes; Alligator Creek from the shoreline of Garfield Bight to West Lake; all inland creeks and lakes north of Long Sound, Joe Bay, and Little Madeira Bay except those ponds and lakes associated with Taylor River.

(6) Except to effect a rescue, or unless otherwise officially authorized, no person shall land on keys of Florida Bay except those marked by signs denoting the area open, or on the mainland shorelines from Terrapin Point eastward to U.S. Highway 1, including the shores of all inland bays and waters and those shorelines contiguous with Long Sound, Little Blackwater Sound, and Blackwater Sound.

(7) West Lake Pond and West Lake shall be closed to all vessels when they are being used by feeding birds. At all other times, these areas shall be open only to hand-propelled vessels or Class A motorboats powered by motors not to exceed 6 horsepower.

(8) Vessels used as living quarters shall not remain in or be operated in the waters of the Park for more than 14 days without a permit issued by the Superintendent. Said permit will prescribe anchorage location, length of stay, sanitary requirements and such other conditions as considered necessary.

(f) Violation of any of the provisions of § 7.45 is prohibited.
