
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1120 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart E - Copies of Records and Fees for Services
##### ยง 1120.51 Charges for services, generally.
###### Levels of fees.

(c)Levels of fees prescribed for each category of requester are as follows:

(1) Commercial Use Requesters-When the ATBCB receives a request for documents which appears to be a request for commercial use, the Board may assess charges in accordance with the fee schedule set forth below, which recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought. Costs for time spent reviewing records to determine whether they are exempt from mandatory disclosure applies to the initial review only. No fees will be assessed for reviewing records, at the administrative appeal level, of the exemptions already applied.

(2) Educational and Non-Commercial Scientific Institution Requesters-The ATBCB shall provide documents to requesters in this category for the cost of reproduction alone, in accordance with the fee schedule set forth below, excluding charges for the first 100 pages of reproduced documents.

(i) To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters must demonstrate the request is being made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (it the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research.

(ii) Requesters eligible for free search must reasonably describe the records sought.

(3) Requesters Who Are Representatives of the News Media-The ATBCB shall provide documents to requesters in this category for the cost of reproduction alone, in accordance with the fee schedule set forth below, excluding charges for the first 100 pages of reproduced documents.

(4) All Other Requestors-The ATBCB shall charge requestors who do not fit into any of the categories described above, fees which recover the full direct cost of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, except that the first two hours of search time and the first 100 pages of reproduction shall be furnished without charge.

(d) Schedule of FOIA fees.

(1) Record search (ATBCB employees)-$14.00 per hour

(2) Document review (ATBCB employees)-$20.00 per hour

(3) Duplication of documents (paper copy of paper original)-$.20 per page

(e) No charge shall be made:

(1) If the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fee;

(2) For any request made by an individual or group of individuals falling into the categories listed at paragraph (b) of this section, and described in paragraph (c) of this section, (excepting commercial use requests) the first two hours of search time and first 100 pages of duplication;

(3) For the cost of preparing or reviewing letters of response to a request or appeal;

(4) For responding to a request for one copy of the official personnel record of the requestor;

(5) For furnishing records requested by either House of Congress, or by duly authorized committee or subcommittee or Congress, unless the records are requested for the benefit of an individual Member of Congress or for a constituent;

(6) For furnishing records requested by and for the official use of other Federal agencies; or

(7) For furnishing records needed by an A&TBCB contractor or grantee to perform the work required by the A&TBCB contract or grant.

(f) Requestors may be charged for unsuccessful or unproductive searches or for searches when records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.

(g) Where the ATBCB reasonably believes that a requestor or group of requestors is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the ATBCB shall aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly.
