
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1120 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart E - Copies of Records and Fees for Services
##### ยง 1120.52 Computerized records.

(a) Information available in whole or in part in computerized form which is disclosable under the Freedom of Information Act is available to the public as follows:

(1) When there is an existing printout from the computer which permits copying the printout, the material will be made available at the per page rate stated in ยง 1120.51(a) for each 8by 11 inch page.

(2) When there is not an existing printout of information disclosable under the Freedom of Information Act, a printout shall be made if the applicant pays the cost to the A&TBCB as stated in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) Obtaining information from computerized records frequently involves a minimum computer time cost of approximately $100 per request. Multiple requests involving the same subject may cost less per request. Services of personnel in the nature of a search shall be charged for at rates prescribed in ยง 1120.51(a). A charge shall be made for the computer time involved based upon the prevailing level of costs to Government organizations and upon the particular types of computer and associated equipment and the amounts of time on such equipment that are utilized. A charge shall also be made for any substantial amounts of special supplies or materials used to contain, present, or make available the output of computers based upon the prevailing levels of costs to Government organizations and upon the type and amount of the supplies and materials that are used.

(b) Information in the Board's computerized records which could be produced only by additional programming of the computer, thus producing information not previously in being, is not required to be furnished under the Freedom of Information Act. In view of the usually heavy workloads of the computers used by the Board, such a service cannot ordinarily be offered to the public.
