
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1150 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE HEARINGS
#### Subpart E - Proceedings Prior to Hearings; Pleadings and Motions
##### ยง 1150.48 PER: Citation, answer, amendment.

(a) Unless otherwise specified, other relevant sections shall apply to PER proceedings.

(b) In addition to all other forms of relief requested, the citation shall request PER when it appears to the Executive Director that immediate and irreparable harm from noncompliance with the standard is occurring or is about to occur. Citations requesting PER shall recite specific facts and include the affidavit or the notarized complaint upon which the PER request is based. Citations requesting PER shall recite that a hearing regarding PER has been scheduled to take place eight (8) days after receipt of the citation. Citations requesting PER may be filed without prejudice to proceedings in which PER is not requested and without prejudice to further proceedings if PER is denied. The time and place of hearing fixed in the citation shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause.

(c) Answers to citations requesting PER shall be in the form of all answers, as set forth in ยง 1150.43, and must be filed within four (4) days after receipt of the citation. Answers shall recite in detail, by affidavit or by notarized answer, why the PER requested should not be granted.

(d) When a citation contains both a request for relief to ensure compliance with a standard and a request for PER, an answer to the PER request shall be filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and an answer to a request for other relief shall be filed in accordance with ยง 1150.43.

(e) Citations and answers in PER proceedings may not be amended prior to hearing. Citations and answers in PER proceedings may be amended at the hearing with the permission of the judge.
