
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1150 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE HEARINGS
#### Subpart H - Hearing Procedures
##### ยง 1150.73 Testimony.

(a) Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most probative evidence available do apply. Testimony shall be given orally under oath or affirmation; but the judge, in his/her discretion, may require or permit the direct testimony of any witness to be prepared in writing and served on all parties in advance of the hearing. Such testimony may be adopted by the witness at the hearing and filed as part of the record.

(b) All witnesses shall be available for cross-examination and, at the discretion of the judge, may be cross-examined without regard to the scope of direct examination as to any matter which is relevant and material to the proceeding.

(c) When testimony is taken by deposition, an opportunity shall be given, with appropriate notice, for all parties to cross-examine the witness. Objections to any testimony or evidence presented shall be deemed waived unless raised at the time of the deposition.

(d) Witnesses appearing before the judge shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. Witnesses whose depositions are taken and the persons taking the same shall be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services in the courts of the United States. Witness fees and mileage shall be paid by the party requesting the witness to appear, and the person taking a deposition shall be paid by the party requesting the taking of the deposition.
