
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1150 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE HEARINGS
#### Subpart H - Hearing Procedures
##### ยง 1150.82 PER proceedings.

(a) In proceedings in which a citation, or part of one, seeking PER has been filed, the judge shall make necessary rulings with respect to time for filing of pleadings, the conduct of the hearing, and to all other matters. He/she shall do all other things necessary to complete the proceeding in the minimum time consistent with the objective of securing an expeditious, just and inexpensive determination of the case. The times for actions set forth in these rules shall be followed unless otherwise ordered by the judge.

(b) The judge shall determine the terms and conditions for orders of PER. These orders must be consistent with preserving the rights of all parties so as to permit the timely processing of the citation, or part of it, not requesting PER, as well as consistent with the provisions and objectives of the Architectural Barriers Act and section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act. In issuing an order for PER, the judge shall make the following specific findings of fact and conclusions of law-

(1) The Executive Director is likely to succeed on the merits of the proceedings;

(2) The threatened injury or violation outweighs the threatened harm to the respondent if PER is granted; and

(3) Granting PER is in the public interest.

(c) The judge may dismiss any citation or part of a citation seeking PER when the judge finds that the timely processing of a citation not requesting PER will adequately ensure the objectives of section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act and that immediate and irreparable harm caused by noncompliance with the standards or guidelines and requirements is not occurring or about to occur.
