
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1151 - BYLAWS
#### ยง 1151.3 Membership.
##### Designation of Federal Board Members and Liaisons.

(c)(1) Designation of a Federal Board member other than an agency head shall be made in writing by the agency head or by anyone authorized to provide such designation on behalf of the agency head. The designation may either be of a particular position, an individual, or both. If only a specific person is designated and not the position, a new designation will be required where appointment of another person to fill the position is subsequently made. The designation shall remain in effect for as long as provided for under applicable agency rules, regulations, or policies.

(2) An individual serving in an acting capacity, or who is otherwise temporarily serving, in a position at Executive Level IV or higher may be designated to serve on the Board, subject to any time limitations under applicable law, or under agency rules, regulations, or policies.

(3) Any newly-appointed Federal Board member shall designate in writing a liaison to the Board. A newly appointed Federal Board member may allow an individual previously serving as a liaison to the Board to continue to do so, but must provide a new designation in writing.

(4) Written designation of a Federal Board member or liaison may be in any form (including from a verifiable email address) indicating the identity of the person making the designation and that the person is authorized to do so.
