
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1151 - BYLAWS
#### ยง 1151.4 Officers.
##### Chair; Vice Chair.

(a)(1) The head of the agency is the Chair of the Board and, in his or her absence or disqualification, the Vice-Chair of the Board. As head of the agency, the Chair represents the Board whenever an applicable Federal statute or regulation imposes a duty or grants a right or authority to the head of the agency and has the authority to act in all matters relating to the operation of the Board. The Chair may delegate any such duties and responsibilities by written delegation of authority. The Chair supervises the Executive Director and evaluates his or her performance and approves performance evaluations of employees who report directly to the Executive Director. The authority to supervise, evaluate, and approve performance evaluations of the Executive Director and those employees who report directly to the Executive Director may only be delegated to the Vice-Chair of the Board.

(2) The Chair and the Vice-Chair of the Board shall be elected by a majority of the membership of the Board (as fixed by statute) and serve for terms of one year. Elections shall be held as soon as possible upon completion of the one year term of the Chair and Vice-Chair, ordinarily at the April meeting of the Board. If no new Chair or Vice-Chair has been elected at the end of the one-year term, the incumbents shall continue to serve in that capacity until a successor Chair or Vice-Chair has been elected. When the Chair is a public member, the Vice-Chair shall be a Federal member; and when the Chair is a Federal member, the Vice-Chair shall be a public member. Upon the expiration of the term as Chair of a Federal member, the subsequent Chair shall be a public member; and vice versa.
