
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1151 - BYLAWS
#### ยง 1151.6 Board meetings.
##### Voting.

(k)(1) Only Board members may vote.

(2) Except as otherwise prescribed in the bylaws in this part, a majority vote of the members present and any proxies is necessary for action by the Board.

(3) The presiding officer shall have the same right to vote as any other member.

(4) Any member may give his or her directed or undirected proxy to any other Board member present at the meeting. Proxies shall be given in writing and submitted to the Chair prior to or at the meeting. A directed proxy shall be voided as to a specific issue if the question on which the vote is eventually taken differs from the question to which the proxy is directed.

(5) The Board may act on items of business between meetings by notational voting. At the request of the Chair, the Executive Director shall send a written ballot (which may be in the form of electronic mail) to each Board member describing each item submitted for notational voting. If any Board member requests discussion on an item, the ballots shall not be counted and the Chair shall place the item on the next Board meeting agenda for discussion and voting. Notational votes shall ordinarily occur over a period of five (5) business days, but may be extended, at the Chair's discretion, if, at the conclusion of the voting period, an insufficient number of votes have been cast to approve or disapprove an action.
