
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1191 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES; ARCHITECTURAL BARRIERS ACT (ABA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES
#### Appendix C to Part 1191 - Architectural Barriers Act: Scoping
##### facility

F226.2 Dispersion. Dining surfaces and work surfaces required to comply with 902 shall be dispersed throughout the space orcontaining dining surfaces and work surfaces.

F227.1 General. Where provided, check-out aisles, sales counters, service counters, food service lines, queues, and waiting lines shall comply with F227 and 904.

F227.2 Check-Out Aisles. Where check-out aisles are provided, check-out aisles complying with 904.3 shall be provided in accordance with Table F227.2. Where check-out aisles serve different functions, check-out aisles complying with 904.3 shall be provided in accordance with Table F227.2 for each function. Where check-out aisles are dispersed throughout the building or facility, check-out aisles complying with 904.3 shall be dispersed.

Where the selling space is under 5000 square feet (465 m2) no more than one check-out aisle complying with 904.3 shall be required.

F227.2.1 Altered Check-Out Aisles. Where check-out aisles are altered, at least one of each check-out aisle serving each function shall comply with 904.3 until the number of check-out aisles complies with F227.2.

F227.3 Counters. Where provided, at least one of each type of sales counter and service counter shall comply with 904.4. Where counters are dispersed throughout the building or facility, counters complying with 904.4 also shall be dispersed.

F227.4 Food Service Lines. Food service lines shall comply with 904.5. Where self-service shelves are provided, at least 50 percent, but no fewer than one, of each type provided shall comply with 308.

F227.5 Queues and Waiting Lines. Queues and waiting lines servicing counters or check-out aisles required to comply with 904.3 or 904.4 shall comply with 403.

F228.1 General. Where provided, at least one of each type of depository, vending machine, change machine, and fuel dispenser shall comply with 309.

1. Drive-up only depositories shall not be required to comply with 309.

2. Fuel dispensers provided for fueling official government vehicles shall not be required to comply with 309.

F228.2 Mail Boxes. Where mail boxes are provided in an interior location, at least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of each type shall comply with 309. In facilities with residential dwelling units, where mail boxes are provided for each residential dwelling unit, mail boxes complying with 309 shall be provided for each residential dwelling unit required to provide mobility features complying with 809.2.

F229.1 General. Where glazed openings are provided in accessible rooms or spaces for operation by occupants, excluding employees, at least one opening shall comply with 309. In accessible rooms or spaces, each glazed opening required by an administrative authority to be operable shall comply with 309.

1. Glazed openings in residential dwelling units required to comply with 809 shall not be required to comply with F229.

2. Glazed openings in guest rooms required to provide communication features and in guest rooms required to comply with F206.5.3 shall not be required to comply with F229.

F230.1 General. Where a two-way communication system is provided to gain admittance to a building or facility or to restricted areas within a building or facility, the system shall comply with 708.

F231.1 General. Judicial facilities shall comply with F231.

F231.2 Courtrooms. Each courtroom shall comply with 808.

F231.3 Holding Cells. Where provided, central holding cells and court-floor holding cells shall comply with F231.3.

F231.3.1 Central Holding Cells. Where separate central holding cells are provided for adult male, juvenile male, adult female, or juvenile female, one of each type shall comply with 807.2. Where central holding cells are provided and are not separated by age or sex, at least one cell complying with 807.2 shall be provided.

F231.3.2 Court-Floor Holding Cells. Where separate court-floor holding cells are provided for adult male, juvenile male, adult female, or juvenile female, each courtroom shall be served by one cell of each type complying with 807.2. Where court-floor holding cells are provided and are not separated by age or sex, courtrooms shall be served by at least one cell complying with 807.2. Cells may serve more than one courtroom.

F231.4 Visiting Areas. Visiting areas shall comply with F231.4.

F231.4.1 Cubicles and Counters. At least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of cubicles shall comply with 902 on both the visitor and detainee sides. Where counters are provided, at least one shall comply with 904.4.2 on both the visitor and detainee sides.

The detainee side of cubicles or counters at non-contact visiting areas not serving holding cells required to comply with F231 shall not be required to comply with 902 or 904.4.2.

F231.4.2 Partitions. Where solid partitions or security glazing separate visitors from detainees at least one of each type of cubicle or counter partition shall comply with 904.6.

F232.1 General. Buildings, facilities, or portions thereof, in which people are detained for penal or correction purposes, or in which the liberty of the inmates is restricted for security reasons shall comply with F232.

F232.2 General Holding Cells and General Housing Cells. General holding cells and general housing cells shall be provided in accordance with F232.2.

Alterations to cells shall not be required to comply except to the extent determined by regulations issued by the appropriate Federal agency having authority under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

F232.2.1 Cells with Mobility Features. At least 2 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of cells in a facility shall provide mobility features complying with 807.2.

F232.2.1.1 Beds. In cells having more than 25 beds, at least 5 percent of the beds shall have clear floor space complying with 807.2.3.

F232.2.2 Cells with Communication Features. At least 2 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of general holding cells and general housing cells equipped with audible emergency alarm systems and permanently installed telephones within the cell shall provide communication features complying with 807.3.

F232.3 Special Holding Cells and Special Housing Cells. Where special holding cells or special housing cells are provided, at least one cell serving each purpose shall provide mobility features complying with 807.2. Cells subject to this requirement include, but are not limited to, those used for purposes of orientation, protective custody, administrative or disciplinary detention or segregation, detoxification, and medical isolation.

Alterations to cells shall not be required to comply except to the extent determined by regulations issued by the appropriate Federal agency having authority under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

F232.4 Medical Care Facilities. Patient bedrooms or cells required to comply with F223 shall be provided in addition to any medical isolation cells required to comply with F232.3.

F232.5 Visiting Areas. Visiting areas shall comply with F232.5.

F232.5.1 Cubicles and Counters. At least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of cubicles shall comply with 902 on both the visitor and detainee sides. Where counters are provided, at least one shall comply with 904.4.2 on both the visitor and detainee or inmate sides.

The inmate or detainee side of cubicles or counters at non-contact visiting areas not serving holding cells or housing cells required to comply with F232 shall not be required to comply with 902 or 904.4.2.

F232.5.2 Partitions. Where solid partitions or security glazing separate visitors from detainees or inmates at least one of each type of cubicle or counter partition shall comply with 904.6.

F233.1 General. Facilities with residential dwelling units shall comply with F233.

F233.2 Residential Dwelling Units Provided by HUD or Through Grant or Loan Programs Administered by HUD. Where facilities with residential dwelling units are provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), or through a grant or loan program administered by HUD, residential dwelling units with mobility features complying with 809.2 shall be provided in a number required by the regulations issued by HUD under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Residential dwelling units required to provide mobility features complying with 809.2 shall be on an accessible route as required by F206. In addition, residential dwelling units with communication features complying with 809.3 shall be provided in a number required by the applicable HUD regulations. Residential dwelling units subject to F233.2 shall not be required to comply with F233.3 or F233.4.

F233.3 Residential Dwelling Units Provided on Military Installations. Military installations with residential dwelling units shall comply with F233.3. Residential dwelling units on military installations subject to F233.3 shall not be required to comply with F233.2 or F233.4.

F233.3.1 Residential Dwelling Units with Mobility Features. Facilities on military installations containing residential dwelling units, other than emergency transportable housing units, shall comply with F233.3.1.1. Facilities on military installations containing emergency transportable housing units shall comply with F233.3.1.2.

F233.3.1.1 Facilities Other Than Those Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. At least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of residential dwelling units, other than emergency transportable housing units, in the facility shall provide mobility features complying with 809.2 and shall be on an accessible route as required by F206.

F233.3.1.2 Facilities Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. Entities shall provide emergency transportable housing units with mobility features complying with 809.2 as determined by a needs assessment conducted by the entity providing the emergency transportable housing units.

F233.3.2 Residential Dwelling Units with Communication Features. Facilities on military installations, other than those containing emergency transportable housing units, shall comply with F233.3.2.1. Facilities on military installations containing emergency transportable housing units shall comply with F233.3.2.2.

F233.3.2.1 Facilities Other Than Those Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. At least 2 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of residential dwelling units, other than emergency transportable housing units, in the facility shall provide communication features complying with 809.3.

F233.3.2.2 Facilities Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. Entities shall provide emergency transportable housing units with residential dwelling unit smoke alarms complying with 809.3.1 and, where weather alert systems are provided, with weather alert systems complying with 809.3.4 as determined by a needs assessment conducted by the entity providing the emergency transportable housing units.

F233.3.3 Additions. Where an addition to an existing building results in an increase in the number of residential dwelling units, the requirements of F233.3.1.1 and F233.3.2.1 shall apply only to the residential dwelling units that are added until the total number of residential dwelling units complies with the minimum number required by F233.3.1.1 and F233.3.2.1. Residential dwelling units required to comply with F233.3.1.1 shall be on an accessible route as required by F206.

F233.3.4 Alterations. Alterations shall comply with F233.3.4.

EXCEPTION: Where compliance with 809.2.1, 809.2.3, or 809.2.4 is technically infeasible, or where it is technically infeasible to provide an accessible route to a residential dwelling unit, the entity shall be permitted to alter or construct a comparable residential dwelling unit to comply with 809.2 provided that the minimum number of residential dwelling units required by F233.3.1.1 and F233.3.2.1, as applicable, is satisfied.

F233.3.4.1 Alterations to Vacated Buildings. Where a building is vacated for the purposes of alteration, at least 5 percent of the residential dwelling units shall comply with 809.2 and shall be on an accessible route as required by 206. In addition, at least 2 percent of the residential dwelling units shall comply with 809.3.

F233.3.4.2 Alterations to Individual Residential Dwelling Units. In individual residential dwelling units, where a bathroom or a kitchen is substantially altered, and at least one other room is altered, the requirements of F233.3.1 shall apply to the altered residential dwelling units until the total number of residential dwelling units complies with the minimum number required by F233.3.1.1 and F233.3.2.1. Residential dwelling units required to comply with F233.3.1.1 shall be on an accessible route as required by 206.

F233.3.5 Dispersion. Residential dwelling units required to provide mobility features complying with 809.2 and residential dwelling units required to provide communication features complying with 809.3 shall be dispersed among the various types of residential dwelling units in the facility and shall provide choices of residential dwelling units comparable to, and integrated with, those available to other residents.

2. Emergency transportable housing units required to provide mobility features complying with 809.2 shall not be required to be dispersed among the various types of residential dwelling units in a facility or to provide choices of residential dwelling units comparable to those available to other residents.

F233.4 Residential Dwelling Units Provided by Other Federal Agencies or Through Grant or Loan Programs Administered by Other Federal Agencies. Facilities with residential dwelling units provided by other federal agencies or through grant or loan programs administered by other federal agencies shall comply with F233.4. Residential dwelling units subject to F233.4 shall not be required to comply with F233.2 or F233.3.

F233.4.1 Residential Dwelling Units with Mobility Features. Facilities, other than those containing emergency transportable housing units, shall comply with F233.4.1.1. Facilities containing emergency transportable housing units shall comply with F233.4.1.2.

F233.4.1.1 Facilities Other Than Those Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. At least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of residential dwelling units, other than emergency transportable housing units, in the facility shall provide mobility features complying with 809.2 and shall be on an accessible route as required by F206.

EXCEPTION: Where facilities contain 15 or fewer residential dwelling units, the requirements of F233.4.1.1 shall apply to the total number of residential dwelling units that are constructed under a single contract, or are developed as a whole, whether or not located on a common site.

F233.4.1.2 Facilities Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. Emergency transportable housing units with mobility features shall be provided in accordance with F233.4.1.2.

F233.4.1.2.1 Private Sites Provided by Occupant of Unit. Where emergency transportable housing units are installed on private sites provided by the occupant of the unit, entities shall provide emergency transportable housing units with mobility features complying with 809.2 as determined by a needs assessment conducted by the entity providing the emergency transportable housing units.

F233.4.1.2.2 Group Sites. Where group sites are developed for the installation of emergency transportable housing units, entities shall comply with 233.3.1.2.2.

F233.4.1.2.2.1 Unit Pads. At least 10 percent, but no fewer than one, of the unit pads prepared for the installation of emergency transportable housing units at each group site shall be designed and constructed to accept the installation of emergency transportable housing units with mobility features complying with 809.2 and shall be on an accessible route as required by F206.

F233.4.1.2.2.2 Units Installed. At least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of the emergency transportable housing units installed at each group site shall provide mobility features complying with 809.2.

F233.4.2 Residential Dwelling Units with Communication Features. Facilities, other than those containing emergency transportable housing units, shall comply with F233.4.2.1. Facilities containing emergency transportable housing units shall comply with F233.4.2.2.

F233.4.2.1 Facilities Other Than Those Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. At least 2 percent, but no fewer than one, of the total number of residential dwelling units, other than emergency transportable housing units, in the facility shall provide communication features complying with 809.3.

EXCEPTION: Where facilities contain 15 or fewer residential dwelling units, the requirements of F233.4.2.1 shall apply to the total number of residential dwelling units that are constructed under a single contract, or are developed as a whole, whether or not located on a common site.

F233.4.2.2 Facilities Containing Emergency Transportable Housing Units. Entities shall provide emergency transportable housing units with residential dwelling unit smoke alarms complying with 809.3.1 and, where weather alert systems are provided, with weather alert systems complying with 809.3.4 as determined by a needs assessment conducted by the entity providing the emergency transportable housing units.

F233.4.3 Residential Dwelling Units for Sale. Residential dwelling units offered for sale shall provide accessible features to the extent required by regulations issued by Federal agencies under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

F233.4.4 Additions. Where an addition to an existing building results in an increase in the number of residential dwelling units, the requirements of F233.4.1.1 and F233.4.2.1 shall apply only to the residential dwelling units that are added until the total number of residential dwelling units complies with the minimum number required by F233.4.1.1 and F233.4.2.1. Residential dwelling units required to comply with F233.4.1.1 shall be on an accessible route as required by F206.

F233.4.5 Alterations. Alterations shall comply with F233.4.5.

EXCEPTION: Where compliance with 809.2.1, 809.2.2, or 809.2.3 is technically infeasible, or where it is technically infeasible to provide an accessible route to a residential dwelling unit, the entity shall be permitted to alter or construct a comparable residential dwelling unit to comply with 809.2 provided that the minimum number of residential dwelling units required by F233.4.1.1 and F233.4.2.1, as applicable, is satisfied.

F233.4.5.1 Alterations to Vacated Buildings. Where a building is vacated for the purposes of alteration, and the altered building contains more than 15 residential dwelling units, at least 5 percent of the residential dwelling units shall comply with 809.2 and shall be on an accessible route as required by F206. In addition, at least 2 percent of the residential dwelling units shall comply with 809.3.

F233.4.5.2 Alterations to Individual Residential Dwelling Units. In individual residential dwelling units, where a bathroom or a kitchen is substantially altered, and at least one other room is altered, the requirements of F233.4.1 shall apply to the altered residential dwelling units until the total number of residential dwelling units complies with the minimum number required by F233.4.1.1 and F233.4.2.1. Residential dwelling units required to comply with F233.4.1.1 shall be on an accessible route as required by F206.

EXCEPTION: Where facilities contain 15 or fewer residential dwelling units, the requirements of F233.4.1.1 and F233.4.2.1 shall apply to the total number of residential dwelling units that are altered under a single contract, or are developed as a whole, whether or not located on a common site.

F233.4.6 Dispersion. Residential dwelling units required to provide mobility features complying with 809.2 and residential dwelling units required to provide communication features complying with 809.3 shall be dispersed among the various types of residential dwelling units in the facility and shall provide choices of residential dwelling units comparable to, and integrated with, those available to other residents.

EXCEPTIONS: 1. Where multi-story residential dwelling units are one of the types of residential dwelling units provided, one-story residential dwelling units shall be permitted as a substitute for multi-story residential dwelling units where equivalent spaces and amenities are provided in the one-story residential dwelling unit.

2. Emergency transportable housing units required to provide mobility features complying with 809.2 shall not be required to be dispersed among the various types of residential dwelling units in a facility or to provide choices of residential dwelling units comparable to those available to other residents.

F234.1 General. Amusement rides shall comply with F234.

Mobile or portable amusement rides shall not be required to comply with F234.

F234.2 Load and Unload Areas. Load and unload areas serving amusement rides shall comply with 1002.3.

F234.3 Minimum Number. Amusement rides shall provide at least one wheelchair space complying with 1002.4, or at least one amusement ride seat designed for transfer complying with 1002.5, or at least one transfer device complying with 1002.6.

1. Amusement rides that are controlled or operated by the rider shall not be required to comply with F234.3.

2. Amusement rides designed primarily for children, where children are assisted on and off the ride by an adult, shall not be required to comply with F234.3.

3. Amusement rides that do not provide amusement ride seats shall not be required to comply with F234.3.

F234.4 Existing Amusement Rides. Where existing amusement rides are altered, the alteration shall comply with F234.4.

F234.4.1 Load and Unload Areas. Where load and unload areas serving existing amusement rides are newly designed and constructed, the load and unload areas shall comply with 1002.3.

F234.4.2 Minimum Number. Where the structural or operational characteristics of an amusement ride are altered to the extent that the amusement ride's performance differs from that specified by the manufacturer or the original design, the amusement ride shall comply with F234.3.

F235.1 General. Recreational boating facilities shall comply with F235.

F235.2 Boat Slips. Boat slips complying with 1003.3.1 shall be provided in accordance with Table F235.2. Where the number of boat slips is not identified, each 40 feet (12 m) of boat slip edge provided along the perimeter of the pier shall be counted as one boat slip for the purpose of this section.

F235.2.1 Dispersion. Boat slips complying with 1003.3.1 shall be dispersed throughout the various types of boat slips provided. Where the minimum number of boat slips required to comply with 1003.3.1 has been met, no further dispersion shall be required.

F235.3 Boarding Piers at Boat Launch Ramps. Where boarding piers are provided at boat launch ramps, at least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of the boarding piers shall comply with 1003.3.2.

F236.1 General. At least one of each type of exercise machine and equipment shall comply with 1004.

F237.1 General. Fishing piers and platforms shall comply with 1005.

F238.1 General. Golf facilities shall comply with F238.

F238.2 Golf Courses. Golf courses shall comply with F238.2.

F238.2.1 Teeing Grounds. Where one teeing ground is provided for a hole, the teeing ground shall be designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit the teeing ground. Where two teeing grounds are provided for a hole, the forward teeing ground shall be designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit the teeing ground. Where three or more teeing grounds are provided for a hole, at least two teeing grounds, including the forward teeing ground, shall be designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit each teeing ground.

In existing golf courses, the forward teeing ground shall not be required to be one of the teeing grounds on a hole designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit the teeing ground where compliance is not feasible due to terrain.

F238.2.2 Putting Greens. Putting greens shall be designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit the putting green.

F238.2.3 Weather Shelters. Where provided, weather shelters shall be designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit the weather shelter and shall comply with 1006.4.
