
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1191 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES; ARCHITECTURAL BARRIERS ACT (ABA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES
#### Appendix C to Part 1191 - Architectural Barriers Act: Scoping
##### teeing grounds,

F238.3 Practice Putting Greens, Practice Teeing Grounds, and Teeing Stations at Driving Ranges. At least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of practice putting greens, practice teeing grounds, and teeing stations at driving ranges shall be designed and constructed so that a golf car can enter and exit the practice putting greens, practiceand teeing stations at driving ranges.

F239.1 General. Miniature golf facilities shall comply with F239.

F239.2 Minimum Number. At least 50 percent of holes on miniature golf courses shall comply with 1007.3.

F239.3 Miniature Golf Course Configuration. Miniature golf courses shall be configured so that the holes complying with 1007.3 are consecutive. Miniature golf courses shall provide an accessible route from the last hole complying with 1007.3 to the course entrance or exit without requiring travel through any other holes on the course.

One break in the sequence of consecutive holes shall be permitted provided that the last hole on the miniature golf course is the last hole in the sequence.

F240.1 General. Play areas for children ages 2 and over shall comply with F240. Where separate play areas are provided within a site for specific age groups, each play area shall comply with F240.

1. Play areas located in family child care facilities where the proprietor actually resides shall not be required to comply with F240.

2. In existing play areas, where play components are relocated for the purposes of creating safe use zones and the ground surface is not altered or extended for more than one use zone, the play area shall not be required to comply with F240.

3. Amusement attractions shall not be required to comply with F240.

4. Where play components are altered and the ground surface is not altered, the ground surface shall not be required to comply with 1008.2.6 unless required by F202.4.

F240.1.1 Additions. Where play areas are designed and constructed in phases, the requirements of F240 shall apply to each successive addition so that when the addition is completed, the entire play area complies with all the applicable requirements of F240.

F240.2 Play Components. Where provided, play components shall comply with F240.2.

F240.2.1 Ground Level Play Components. Ground level play components shall be provided in the number and types required by F240.2.1. Ground level play components that are provided to comply with F240.2.1.1 shall be permitted to satisfy the additional number required by F240.2.1.2 if the minimum required types of play components are satisfied. Where two or more required ground level play components are provided, they shall be dispersed throughout the play area and integrated with other play components.

F240.2.1.1 Minimum Number and Types. Where ground level play components are provided, at least one of each type shall be on an accessible route and shall comply with 1008.4.

F240.2.1.2 Additional Number and Types. Where elevated play components are provided, ground level play components shall be provided in accordance with Table F240.2.1.2 and shall comply with 1008.4.

If at least 50 percent of the elevated play components are connected by a ramp and at least 3 of the elevated play components connected by the ramp are different types of play components, the play area shall not be required to comply with F240.2.1.2.

F240.2.2 Elevated Play Components. Where elevated play components are provided, at least 50 percent shall be on an accessible route and shall comply with 1008.4.

F241.1 General. Where provided, saunas and steam rooms shall comply with 612.

Where saunas or steam rooms are clustered at a single location, no more than 5 percent of the saunas and steam rooms, but no fewer than one, of each type in each cluster shall be required to comply with 612.

F242.1 General. Swimming pools, wading pools, and spas shall comply with F242.

F242.2 Swimming Pools. At least two accessible means of entry shall be provided for swimming pools. Accessible means of entry shall be swimming pool lifts complying with 1009.2; sloped entries complying with 1009.3; transfer walls complying with 1009.4; transfer systems complying with 1009.5; and pool stairs complying with 1009.6. At least one accessible means of entry provided shall comply with 1009.2 or 1009.3.

1. Where a swimming pool has less than 300 linear feet (91 m) of swimming pool wall, no more than one accessible means of entry shall be required provided that the accessible means of entry is a swimming pool lift complying with 1009.2 or sloped entry complying with 1009.3.

2. Wave action pools, leisure rivers, sand bottom pools, and other pools where user access is limited to one area shall not be required to provide more than one accessible means of entry provided that the accessible means of entry is a swimming pool lift complying with 1009.2, a sloped entry complying with 1009.3, or a transfer system complying with 1009.5.

3. Catch pools shall not be required to provide an accessible means of entry provided that the catch pool edge is on an accessible route.

F242.3 Wading Pools. At least one accessible means of entry shall be provided for wading pools. Accessible means of entry shall comply with sloped entries complying with 1009.3.

F242.4 Spas. At least one accessible means of entry shall be provided for spas. Accessible means of entry shall comply with swimming pool lifts complying with 1009.2; transfer walls complying with 1009.4; or transfer systems complying with 1009.5.

Where spas are provided in a cluster, no more than 5 percent, but no fewer than one, spa in each cluster shall be required to comply with F242.4.

F243.1 General. Where shooting facilities with firing positions are designed and constructed at a site, at least 5 percent, but no fewer than one, of each type of firing position shall comply with 1010.

F244.1 General. Camping facilities, other than camping facilities on trails, shall comply with F244.

F244.2 Camping Units with Mobility Features. Camping facilities shall provide camping units with mobility features complying with F244.2 in accordance with Table F244.2. Where a camping facility provides different types of camping units, Table F244.2 shall apply to each type of camping unit provided.

F244.2.1 Alterations and Additions. Where camping units are altered or added, the requirements of F244.2 shall apply only to the camping units that are altered or added until the number of camping units with mobility features complies with the minimum number required in Table 244.2.

Where an entity is implementing a transition plan for program accessibility developed pursuant to regulations issued under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act that designates specific camping units to provide mobility features complying with F244.2, the entity shall not be required to comply with F244.2 when altering individual elements within camping units that are not designated to provide mobility features complying with F244.2.

F244.2.2 Dispersion. Camping units required to provide mobility features complying with F244.2 shall provide choices of camping units comparable to, and integrated with, those available to others.

F244.2.3 Elements Within Camping Units with Mobility Features. Elements within camping units required to provide mobility features shall comply with F244.2.3.

F244.2.3.1 Outdoor Constructed Features. Where provided, at least one of each type of outdoor constructed features shall comply with 1011. Where more than one of the same type of outdoor constructed features is provided, at least two of the same type of outdoor constructed features shall comply with 1011.

F244.2.3.2 Parking Spaces. Where provided, parking spaces shall comply with F244.2.3.2.

F244.2.3.2.1 Recreational Vehicles. Where parking spaces are provided for recreational vehicles, at least one parking space shall comply with 1012.2, 1012.4, and 1012.5. Where more than one parking space is provided for recreational vehicles, at least two parking spaces shall comply with 1012.2, 1012.4, and 1012.5.

F244.2.3.2.2 Vehicles Other Than Recreational Vehicles. Where parking spaces are provided for vehicles other than recreational vehicles, at least one parking space shall comply with 1012.3, 1012.4, and 1012.5. Where more than one parking space is provided for a vehicle other than a recreational vehicle, at least two parking spaces shall comply with 1012.3, 1012.4, and 1012.5.

244.2.3.3 Tent Pads and Tent Platforms. Where provided, at least one tent pad and tent platform shall comply with 1013. Where more than one tent pad and tent platform is provided, at least two tent pads and tent platforms shall comply with 1013.

F244.2.3.4 Camp Shelters. Where provided, at least one camp shelter shall comply with 1014. Where more than one camp shelter is provided, at least two camp shelters shall comply with 1014.

F244.3 Outdoor Constructed Features in Common Use and Public Use Areas. Where provided in common use and public use areas that serve camping units with mobility features, at least 20 percent, but not less than one, of each type of outdoor constructed feature provided at each location shall comply with 1011.

F244.4 Pull-up Spaces for Recreational Vehicles at Dump Stations. Where provided, pull-up spaces for recreational vehicles at dump stations shall comply with 1012.2, 1012.4, and 1012.5.

F244.5 Outdoor Recreation Access Routes. Camping facilities shall provide outdoor recreation access routes complying with 1016 in accordance with F244.5.

F244.5.1 Routes Within Camping Units with Mobility Features. At least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect accessible elements, spaces, and facilities provided within camping units with mobility features.

F244.5.2 Routes to and Within Common Use and Public Use Areas. Common use and public use areas serving camping units with mobility features shall provide outdoor recreation access routes in accordance with F244.5.2.

Outdoor recreation access routes shall not be required to connect camping units with mobility features and recreational vehicle dump stations where a pull-up space complying with 1012.2, 1012.4, and 1012.5 is provided at the dump station for recreational vehicles.

F244.5.2.1 Routes to Common Use and Public Use Areas. At least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect each camping unit with mobility features with common use and public use areas serving the unit.

F244.5.2.2 Routes Within Common Use and Public Use Areas. At least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect accessible elements, spaces, and facilities provided within common use and public use areas serving camping units with mobility features.

F244.5.3 Routes to Adjacent Recreation Facilities. Where a circulation path connects camping facilities and adjacent recreation facilities, at least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect camping units with mobility features to an accessible route serving the adjacent recreation facilities.

F244.5.4 Location. Outdoor recreation access routes required by F244.5.2 and F244.5.3 shall coincide with or be located in the same area as general circulation paths.

F245.1 General. Picnic facilities, other than picnic facilities on trails, shall comply with F245.

F245.2 Picnic Units with Mobility Features. Picnic facilities shall provide picnic units with mobility features in accordance with F245.2.

F245.2.1 Picnic Facilities with Two or Fewer Picnic Units. Where picnic facilities contain two or fewer picnic units, each picnic unit shall provide mobility features complying with F245.2.

F245.2.2 Picnic Facilities with More Than Two Picnic Units. Where picnic facilities contain more than two picnic units, at least 20 percent, but not less than two, of the picnic units shall provide mobility features complying with F245.2.

F245.2.3 Alterations and Additions. Where picnic units are altered or added, the requirements of F245.2 shall apply only to the picnic units that are altered or added until the number of picnic units with mobility features complies with the minimum number required in F245.2.1 or F245.2.2.

Where an entity is implementing a transition plan for program accessibility developed pursuant to regulations issued under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act that designates specific picnic units to provide mobility features complying with F245.2, the entity shall not be required to comply with F245.2 when altering individual elements within picnic units that are not designated to provide mobility features complying with F245.2.

F245.2.4 Dispersion. Picnic units required to provide mobility features complying with F245.2 shall provide choices of picnic units comparable to, and integrated with, those available to others.

F245.2.5 Elements Within Picnic Units with Mobility Features. Elements within picnic units required to provide mobility features shall comply with F245.2.5.

F245.2.5.1 Outdoor Constructed Features. Where provided, at least one of each type of outdoor constructed feature shall comply with 1011. Where more than one of the same type of outdoor constructed feature is provided, at least two of the same type of outdoor constructed features shall comply with 1011.

F245.2.5.2 Parking Spaces. Where provided, at least one parking space shall comply with 1012.3, 1012.4, and 1012.5. Where more than one parking space is provided, at least two parking spaces shall comply with 1012.3, 1012.4, and 1012.5.

F245.3 Outdoor Constructed Features in Common Use and Public Use Areas. Where provided in common use and public use areas that serve picnic units with mobility features, at least 20 percent, but not less than one, of each type of outdoor constructed feature provided at each location shall comply with 1011.

F245.4 Outdoor Recreation Access Routes. Picnic facilities shall provide outdoor recreation access routes complying with 1016 in accordance with F245.4.

F245.4.1 Routes Within Picnic Units with Mobility Features. At least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect accessible elements, spaces, and facilities provided within picnic units with mobility features.

F245.4.2 Routes to and Within Common Use and Public Use Areas. Common use and public use areas serving picnic units with mobility features shall provide outdoor recreation access routes in accordance with F245.4.2.

F245.4.2.1 Routes to Common Use and Public Use Areas. At least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect each picnic unit with mobility features with common use and public use areas serving that unit.

F245.4.2.2 Routes Within Common Use and Public Use Areas. At least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect accessible elements, spaces, and facilities provided within common use and public use areas serving picnic units with mobility features.

F245.4.3 Routes to Adjacent Recreation Facilities. Where a circulation path connects picnic facilities and adjacent recreation facilities, at least one outdoor recreation access route shall connect picnic units with mobility features to an accessible route serving the adjacent recreation facilities.

F245.4.4 Location. Outdoor recreation access routes required by F245.4.2 and F245.4.3 shall coincide with or be located in the same area as general circulation paths.

F246.1 General. Viewing areas, other than viewing areas on trails, shall comply with F246.1.

F246.2 Distinct Viewing Locations. Each distinct viewing location within a viewing area shall comply with 1015.

F246.3 Outdoor Constructed Features. Where provided within viewing areas, at least 20 percent, but not less than one, of each type of outdoor constructed feature shall comply with 1011.

F246.4 Outdoor Recreation Access Routes. At least one outdoor recreation access route complying with 1016 shall connect accessible parking spaces or other arrival points serving the viewing area with accessible elements, spaces, and facilities provided within the viewing area.

F247.1 General. Where a trail is designed for use by hikers or pedestrians and directly connects to a trailhead or another trail that substantially meets the requirements in 1017, the trail shall comply with 1017.

F247.2 Existing Trails. Where the original design, function, or purpose of an existing trail is changed and the altered portion of the trail directly connects to a trailhead or another trail that substantially meets the requirements in 1017, the altered portion of the trail shall comply with 1017.

F247.3 Trailheads. Trailheads shall comply with F247.3.

F247.3.1 Outdoor Constructed Features. Where provided within trailheads, at least 20 percent, but not less than one, of each type of outdoor constructed feature shall comply with 1011.

F247.3.2 Outdoor Recreation Access Routes. At least one outdoor recreation access route complying with 1016 shall connect the following:

1. Accessible parking spaces or other arrival points serving the trailhead;

2. Starting point of the trail; and

3. Accessible elements, spaces, and facilities provided within the trailhead.

F247.4 Trail Facilities. Where provided on trails, facilities shall comply with F247.4.

F247.4.1 Camping Facilities. Camping facilities provided on trails shall comply with F244.2 and F244.3.

F247.4.2 Picnic Facilities. Picnic facilities provided on trails shall comply with F245.2 and F245.3.

F247.4.3 Viewing Areas. Viewing areas provided on trails shall comply with F246.2 and F246.3.

F247.4.4 Routes. Routes that connect trails complying with 1017 to camping facilities, picnic facilities, viewing areas, pit toilets, and accessible elements provided within the facilities shall comply with 1017.

F247.5 Outdoor Constructed Features. Where outdoor constructed features are provided on trails, other than within facilities specified in F247.4, at least 20 percent, but not less than one, of each type of outdoor constructed feature at each location shall comply with 1011.

F248.1 General. Beach access routes complying with 1018 shall be provided in accordance with F248.1. Beach access routes shall be permanent or removable.

Beach access routes shall not be required where pedestrian access to the beach is not permitted.

F248.1.1 Facilities Serving Beaches. Beach access routes shall be provided in a number complying with F248.2 where the entity that administers or manages a beach constructs or alters any of the following facilities to serve the beach:

1. Circulation paths;

2. Parking facilities;

3. Toilet facilities; or

4. Bathing facilities.

The entity shall not be required to expend more than 20 percent of the costs of constructing or altering the facilities to provide beach access routes.

F248.1.2 Beach Nourishment. Beach access routes shall be provided in a number complying with F248.2 where the entity that administers or manages a beach undertakes a beach nourishment project.

The entity shall not be required to expend more than 20 percent of the costs of a beach nourishment project to provide beach access routes.

F248.2 Minimum Number. Where beach access routes are required by F248.1, at least one beach access route shall be provided for eachmile (0.8 km) of beach shoreline administered or managed by the entity.

The number of beach access routes shall not be required to exceed the number of pedestrian access points provided by the entity to a beach.

F248.3 Location. Beach access routes shall coincide with or be located in the same area as pedestrian access points to the beach.
