
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Subpart D - Light Rail Vehicles and Systems
##### § 1192.71 General.

(a) New, used and remanufactured light rail vehicles, to be considered accessible by regulations issued by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR part 37, shall comply with this subpart.

(b)(1) Vehicles intended to be operated solely in light rail systems confined entirely to a dedicated right-of-way, and for which all stations or stops are designed and constructed for revenue service after the effective date of standards for design and construction issued pursuant to subpart C of 49 CFR part 37, shall provide level boarding and shall comply with §§ 1192.73(d)(1) and 1192.85.

(2) Vehicles designed for, and operated on, pedestrian malls, city streets, or other areas where level boarding is not practicable shall provide wayside or car-borne lifts, mini-high platforms, or other means of access in compliance with § 1192.83 (b) or (c).

(c) If portions of the vehicle are modified in a way that affects or could affect accessibility, each such portion shall comply, to the extent practicable, with the applicable provisions of this subpart. This provision does not require that inaccessible vehicles be retrofitted with lifts, ramps or other boarding devices.

(d) Existing vehicles retrofitted to comply with the "one-car-per-train rule" at 49 CFR 37.93 shall comply with §§ 1192.75, 1192.77(c), 1192.79(a) and 1192.83(a) and shall have, in new and key stations, at least one door which complies with § 1192.73 (a)(1), (b) and (d). Vehicles previously designed and manufactured in accordance with the accessibility requirements of 49 CFR part 609 or Department of Transportation regulations implementing section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that were in effect before October 7, 1991, and which can be entered and used from stations in which they are to be operated, may be used to satisfy the requirements of 49 CFR 37.93.
