
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### et seq.

T101.1 Purpose. These Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines, which consist of Chapters 1 through 7, contain scoping and technical requirements for new, used or remanufactured non-rail vehicles to ensure their accessibility to, and usability by, individuals with disabilities. The Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines apply to the extent required by regulations issued by the Department of Transportation under the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12101).

T102.1 Calculation of Percentages. Where the determination of the required size or dimension of an element involves ratios or percentages, rounding down for values less than one half shall be permitted.

T102.2 Units of Measurement. Measurements are stated in U.S. and metric customary units. The values stated in each system (U.S. and metric customary units) may not be exact equivalents, and each system shall be used independently of the other.

T102.3 Vehicle Length. The length of non-rail vehicles shall be measured from standard bumper to standard bumper.

T103.1 Terms Defined in Referenced Standards. Terms defined in referenced standards and not defined in T103.4 shall have the meaning as defined in the referenced standards.

T103.2 Undefined Terms. Terms not specifically defined in T103.4 or in regulations issued by the Department of Transportation (49 CFR part 37) shall be given their ordinarily accepted meaning in the sense that the context implies.

T103.3 Interchangeability. Words, terms, and phrases used in the singular include the plural; and words, terms, and phrases used in the plural include the singular.

T103.4 Defined Terms. For the purpose of the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines, the following terms have the indicated meaning.
