
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.56 Acadia National Park.
##### Designated Snowmobile Routes.

(a)The designated routes for snowmobile shall be:

(1) Park Loop Road (except section from Stanley Brook intersection north to the gate at Penobscot Mountain Parking Area) and connecting roads as follows: Paradise Hill Road (Visitor Center to Junction Park Loop Road); Stanley Brook Road; Ledgelawn Extension Road; Sieur de Monts (gate to Loop Road); West Street; Cadillac Mountain Summit Road; entrance roads to Wildwood Stable.

(2) Portions of Carriage Paths as follows: A section of Carriage Path 1.8 miles in length from the parking area at the north end of Eagle Lake down the east side of the lake to connection with Park Loop Road at Bubble Pond Rest Area. A section of Carriage Path 0.6 miles in length from Wildwood Stable to connection with Park Loop Road south of the entrance road to Penobscot Mountain Parking Area.

(3) Hio Truck Road from Seawall Campground north to State Route 102.

(4) The paved camper access roads within Seawall Campground.

(5) Marshall Brook Truck Road from Seal Cove Road to Marshall Brook.

(6) Seal Cove Road from Park Boundary in Southwest Harbor to State Route 102 in Seal Cove.

(7) Western Mountain Road from Park Boundary west of Worcester Landfill to Seal Cove Pond.

(8) The two crossroads connecting Western Mountain Road and Seal Cove Road.

(9) Long Pond Truck Road including Spur Road to Pine Hill.

(10) Lurvey Spring Road from Junction with Long Pond Road in Southwest Harbor to intersection with Echo Lake Beach Road.

(11) The Echo Lake Entrance Road from State Route 102 to Echo Lake Beach Parking Area.
