
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### Surface discontinuities.

Differences in level between two adjacent surfaces. Elevation changes due to ramps or stairs do not, themselves, constitute surface discontinuities. However, abrupt changes in level on the walking surface of ramps or stairs are surface discontinuities.

T201.1 General. Non-rail vehicles purchased, leased or remanufactured by entities covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) shall comply with the requirements in the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines to the extent required by regulations issued by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR Part 37.

T201.2 Reduction in Access Prohibited. No modifications to a non-rail vehicle shall be taken that decrease, or have the effect of decreasing, the net accessibility or usability of the vehicle below the requirements of the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines.

T202.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide at least one means of accessible boarding and alighting that serves each designated stop on the fixed route to which the vehicle is assigned. Non-rail vehicles shall also provide at least one means of accessible boarding and alighting that can be deployed to the roadway. Provision of accessible boarding and alighting shall be made through one or more of the following methods: ramps or bridgeplates complying with T402, lifts complying with T403, or a means of level boarding and alighting complying with T404.

T203.1 General. Steps on non-rail vehicles shall comply with T405.

T204.1 General. Doorways on non-rail vehicles shall comply with T204.

T204.2 Doorways with Lifts, Ramps or Bridgeplates. Doorways with lifts or ramps shall comply with T502.2.

T204.3 Doorways with Level Boarding and Alighting. Doorways with level boarding and alighting shall comply with T502.3.

T204.4 Doorways with Steps on Over-the-Road Buses. On over-the-road-buses, doorways with steps shall comply with T502.4.

T205.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide illumination complying with T503 at ramps, bridgeplates, doorways, and boarding and alighting areas.

T206.1 General. Circulation paths in non-rail vehicles shall comply with T302.

T207.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide handrails, stanchions, and handholds in accordance with T207. Handrails, stanchions, and handholds shall comply with T303.

T207.2 Passenger Doorways. Handrails or stanchions shall be provided at passenger doorways in a configuration that permits grasping and use from outside the non-rail vehicle and throughout the boarding and alighting process.

T207.3 Fare Collection Devices. Handrails shall be provided at fare collection devices and shall be configured so that they can be used for support when at the fare collection device.

T207.4 Circulation Paths. Handrails, stanchions, and handholds shall be provided along circulation paths in accordance with T207.4.

T207.4.1. Small vehicles. Handrails, stanchions, or handholds shall be provided within small non-rail vehicles in a configuration that permits onboard circulation and assistance with seating and standing.

T207.4.2. Large vehicles. Handholds or stanchions shall be provided within large non-rail vehicles on all forward- and rear-facing seat backs located directly adjacent to the aisle.
