
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### Exception:

Where high-back seats are provided, handrails located overhead or on overhead luggage racks shall be permitted instead of stanchions or handholds.

T208.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide passenger access routes that permit boarding and alighting, onboard circulation, and seating by passengers with disabilities. A passenger access route shall consist of a route complying with T208.2 between wheelchair spaces and doorways, walking surfaces complying with T302, and clearances complying with T504.

T208.2 Connection to Doorways. A passenger access route shall connect each wheelchair space to doorways that provide a means of accessible boarding and alighting in accordance with T208.2.

T208.2.1 Doorways on One Side of vehicle. Where non-rail vehicles have doorways on one side, a passenger access route shall connect each wheelchair space to a doorway that provides a means of accessible boarding and alighting in accordance with T202.

T208.2.2 Doorways on Two Sides of vehicle. Where non-rail vehicles have doorways on two sides, a passenger access route shall connect each wheelchair space to doorways on both sides of the vehicle that provide a means of accessible boarding and alighting in accordance with T202.

T208.2.3 Deployment to Roadway. A passenger access route shall connect each wheelchair space to a doorway providing a means of accessible boarding and alighting that can be deployed to the roadway in accordance with T202.

T209.1 General. Where non-rail vehicles provide onboard fare collection devices, at least one fare collection device shall serve a passenger access route and comply with T505.

T210.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide wheelchair spaces in accordance with T210.

T210.2 Large non-rail vehicles. Large non-rail vehicles shall provide at least two wheelchair spaces complying with T602.

T210.3 Small non-rail vehicles. Small non-rail vehicles shall provide at least one wheelchair space complying with T602.

T210.4 Location. Wheelchair spaces shall be located as near as practicable to doorways that provide a means of accessible boarding and alighting.

T211.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide wheelchair securement systems complying with T603 at each wheelchair space.

T212.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide seat belts and shoulder belts complying with T605 at each wheelchair space.

T213.1 General. Seats on non-rail vehicles shall comply with T213.

T213.2 Priority Seats. Non-rail vehicles operated in fixed-route service shall designate at least two seats as priority seats for passengers with disabilities. Priority seats shall be located as near as practicable to a doorway used for boarding and alighting. Where non-rail vehicles provide both aisle-facing and forward-facing seats, at least one of the priority seats shall be a forward-facing seat.

T213.3 Armrests at Aisle Seats on Over-the-Road Buses. Where armrests are provided on the aisle side of seats on over-the-road buses, folding or removable armrests shall be provided on the aisle side of at least 50 percent of aisle seats. Priority seats and moveable or removable seats permitted by T602.4.1 at wheelchair spaces shall be included among the fifty percent of seats with folding or removable armrests.

T214.1 General. Where provided for passenger use, operable parts at wheelchair spaces and priority seats, stop request systems, and fare collection devices serving passenger access routes shall comply with T304.

T215.1 General. Communication features on non-rail vehicles shall comply with T215.

T215.2 Signs. Signs shall comply with 215.2.

T215.2.1 Priority Seats. Priority seats shall be identified by signs informing other passengers to make the seats available for persons with disabilities. Signs at priority seats shall comply with T702.

T215.2.2 Wheelchair Spaces. Wheelchair spaces shall be identified by the International Symbol of Accessibility complying with T703.

T215.2.3 Doorways. Doorways that provide a means of accessible boarding and alighting shall be identified on the exterior of the non-rail vehicle by the International Symbol of Accessibility complying with T703.

T215.2.4 Destination and Route Signs. Where destination or route signs are provided on the exterior of non-rail vehicles, such signs shall be located at a minimum on the front and boarding sides of the vehicle. The signs shall be illuminated and comply with T702.

T215.3. Public Address and Stop Request Systems. Large non-rail vehicles that operate in fixed route service with multiple designated stops shall provide public address and stop request systems in accordance with T215.3.

T215.3.1 Public Address Systems. Public address systems shall be provided within non-rail vehicles to announce stops and other passenger information.

T215.3.2 Stop Request Systems. Where non-rail vehicles stop on passenger request, stop request systems complying with T704.3 shall be provided.

T215.4 Automated Announcement Systems. Large non-rail vehicles operated in fixed route service with multiple designated stops by large transit entities shall provide automated stop announcement systems and automated route identification systems in accordance with T215.4.

T215.4.1 Automated Stop Announcement Systems. Automated stop announcement systems shall comply with T704.3.1.

T215.4.2 Automated Route Identification Systems. Automated route identification systems shall comply with T704.3.2.

T301.1 Scope. The requirements in Chapter 3 shall apply where required by Chapter 2 or where otherwise referenced in any other chapter of the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines.

T302.1 General. Walking surfaces in non-rail vehicles shall comply with T302.
