
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### Exception:

Ramps and bridgeplates on large non-rail vehicles that serve only designated stops with boarding platforms providing level boarding and alighting shall not be required to be permanently attached and power operated provided that portable ramps or bridgeplates capable of deployment to the roadway are carried onboard.

T402.4 Emergency Operation. Power-operated ramps and bridgeplates shall be capable of manual operation in the event of a power failure.

T402.5 Surfaces. Ramp and bridgeplate surface material shall comply with T302 and extend across the full width and length of the ramp or bridgeplate.

T402.6 Clear Width. The clear width of ramps and bridgeplates shall be 30 inches (760 mm) minimum.

T402.7 Edge Guards. Ramps and bridgeplates shall provide edge guards continuously along each side of the ramp or bridgeplate to within 3 inches (75 mm) of the end of the ramp or bridgeplate that is deployed furthest from the non-rail vehicle. Edge guards shall be 2 inches (51 mm) high minimum above the ramp or bridgeplate surface.

T402.8 Running Slope. The maximum running slope of ramps and bridgeplates shall comply with T402.8.1 or T402.8.2.

T402.8.1 Deployment to Roadways or to Curb Height Boarding and Alighting Areas. The running slope of ramps and bridgeplates used for deployment to the roadway or to curb-height boarding and alighting areas shall be 1:6 maximum, as measured to ground level with the non-rail vehicle resting on a flat surface.

T402.8.2 Deployment to Boarding Platforms. The running slope of ramps and bridgeplates used for deployment to platforms shall be 1:8 maximum, as measured to the boarding platform with the non-rail vehicle resting on a flat surface.

T402.9 Transitions. Vertical surface discontinuities at transitions from boarding and alighting areas to ramps and bridgeplates shall comply with T302.4.

T402.10 Visual Contrast. The perimeter of the walking surface on ramps and bridgeplates shall be marked by a stripe. The stripe shall be 1 inch (25 mm) wide minimum and shall contrast visually with the rest of the walking surface either light-on-dark or dark-on-light.

T402.11 Gaps. When ramps or bridgeplates are deployed for boarding and alighting, gaps between the ramp or bridgeplate surface and floor of non-rail vehicles shall not permit passage of a sphere more thaninch (16 mm) in diameter.

T402.12 Stowage. Where portable ramps and bridgeplates are permitted, a compartment, securement system, or other storage method shall be provided within the non-rail vehicle to stow such ramps and bridgeplates when not in use.

T403.1 General. Lifts shall comply with T403 and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) for public use lifts at 49 CFR 571.403 and 571.404.

T403.2 Boarding Direction. Lift platforms shall be designed to permit passengers who use wheelchairs the option to board the platforms facing either toward or away from the non-rail vehicle.

T404.1 General. Boarding and alighting at boarding platforms in level boarding bus systems shall comply with T404.

T404.2 Vehicle Floor and Boarding Platform Coordination. The design of non-rail vehicles shall be coordinated with the boarding platforms to minimize the gap between the vehicle floor and the boarding platforms.

T404.3 Ramps and Bridgeplates. Where the space between the floor of non-rail vehicles and a boarding platform is greater than 2 inches (51 mm) horizontally or 5/8 inch (16 mm) vertically when measured at 50 percent passenger load with the vehicle at rest, non-rail vehicles shall provide ramps or bridgeplates complying with T402.

T405.1 General. Steps shall comply with T405.

T405.2 Surfaces. Step tread surfaces shall comply with T302.

T405.3 Visual Contrast. The outer edge of step treads shall be marked by a stripe. The stripe shall be 1 inch (25 mm) wide minimum and shall contrast visually with the rest of the step tread or circulation path surface either light-on-dark or dark-on-light.

T501.1 Scope. The requirements in Chapter 5 shall apply where required by Chapter 2 or where otherwise referenced in any other chapter of the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines.

T502.1 General. Doorways in non-rail vehicles shall comply with T502.

T502.2 Doorways with Lifts, Ramps or Bridgeplates. The vertical clearance at doorways with lifts, ramps or bridgeplates shall comply with T502.2. Vertical clearance shall be measured from the inside finished edge of the door opening to the highest point of the deployed lift, ramp or bridgeplate below.

T502.2.1 Over-the-Road Buses. For over-the-road buses, the vertical clearance at doorways shall be 65 inches (1650 mm) minimum.

T502.2.2 Other Vehicles. For other non-rail vehicles, the vertical clearance at doorways shall be 56 inches (1420 mm) minimum on small non-rail vehicles and 68 inches (1725 mm) on large non-rail vehicles.

T502.3 Doorways with Level Boarding. Doorways on non-rail vehicles designed for level boarding bus systems shall comply with T502.3.

T502.3.1 Clear Width. Doorways shall provide a clear opening of 32 inches (810 mm) minimum.

T502.3.2 Thresholds. Thresholds at doorways shall be marked by a stripe. The stripe shall be 1 inch (25 mm) wide minimum and contrast with the rest of the walking surface either light-on-dark or dark-on-light.

T502.4 Doorways with Steps on Over-the-Road Buses. On over-the-road buses, doorways with steps shall provide an opening with a clear width of 30 inches (760 mm) minimum.
