
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### Exceptions:

1. The door opening clear width above a height of 48 inches (1220 mm) measured from the lowest step tread shall be permitted to taper so as to reduce in width to 18 inches (457 mm) minimum.

2. Where compliance with T502.4 is not structurally feasible, the door opening clear width shall be permitted to be 27 in (685 mm) minimum.

3. Hinges and other door mechanisms shall be permitted to protrude 4 inches (100 mm) maximum into the door opening clear width at or below 48 inches (1220 mm) in height measured from the lowest step tread.

T503.1 General. Illumination shall be provided at ramps, bridgeplates, doorways, and boarding and alighting areas in accordance with T503. Lights shall be shielded so as not to project directly into the eyes of entering and exiting passengers.

T503.2 Ramps and Bridgeplates. When ramps or bridgeplates are deployed, the walking surface shall be lighted with 2 foot-candles (22 lux) minimum of illumination.

T503.3 Steps at Front Doorways. The walking surface on steps serving the front doorway of non-rail vehicles shall be lighted with 2 foot-candles (22 lux) minimum of illumination when the vehicle doors are open.

T503.4 Steps at Other Doorways. The walking surface on steps serving all other non-rail vehicle doorways shall be lighted at all times with 2 foot-candles (22 lux) minimum of illumination.

T503.5 Exterior Illumination for Boarding and Alighting Areas. Exterior lighting shall be provided to illuminate walking surfaces of boarding and alighting areas when the doors of non-rail vehicles are open. Where doorways have steps, the illumination shall be 1 foot-candle (11 lux) minimum for a distance of 3 feet (915 mm) measured beyond the outside edge of the doorway or bottom step tread. Where doorways have ramps, bridgeplates or lifts, the illumination shall be 1 foot-candle (11 lux) minimum for a distance of 3 feet (915 mm) measured beyond the edge of the ramp, bridgeplate or lift farthest from the non-rail vehicle.

T504.1 General. Passenger access routes shall provide clearances that are sufficient to permit passengers using wheelchairs to move between wheelchair spaces and doorways that provide accessible boarding and alighting, and to enter and exit wheelchair spaces.

T505.1 General. Fare collection devices in non-rail vehicles shall comply with T505.

T505.2 Location. Fare collection devices shall be located so as not to interfere with wheelchair movement along passenger access routes.

T505.3 Location of Operable Parts. Operable parts shall be located so that they are reachable by passengers using wheelchair when parked in a clear space 30 inches (760 mm) wide minimum and 48 inches (1220 mm) long minimum. Operable parts shall be located adjacent to the toe end of the clear space or shall be located no more than 10 inches (255 mm) measured from the centerline of the long dimension of the clear space.

T601.1 Scope. The requirements in Chapter 6 shall apply where required by Chapter 2 or where otherwise referenced in any other chapter of the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines.

T602.1 General. Wheelchair spaces in non-rail vehicles shall comply with T602.

T602.2 Surfaces. Wheelchair space surfaces shall comply with T302.

T602.3 Approach. One full unobstructed side of each wheelchair space shall adjoin or overlap a passenger access route.

T602.4 Size. Wheelchair spaces shall be 30 inches (760 mm) minimum in width and 48 inches (1220 mm) minimum in length.
