
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### Exception: O

n large non-rail vehicles designed for use by both seated and standing passengers, rear-facing wheelchair securement systems shall be permitted provided that at least one wheelchair securement system is front facing.

T603.3 Design Load. Wheelchair securement systems shall comply with the design loads specified in T603.3.1 or T603.3.2, as applicable.

T603.3.1 Non-Rail Vehicles with Gross Vehicle Weight Rating Equal to or Greater than 30,000 lbs. On non-rail vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating equal to or greater than 30,000 pounds (13,608 kg), wheelchair securement systems shall restrain a force in the forward longitudinal direction of 2,000 lbf (8,800 N) minimum for each wheelchair.

T603.3.2 Non-Rail Vehicles with Gross Vehicle Weight Rating Less than 30,000 lbs. On non-rail vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating less than 30,000 pounds (13,608 kg), wheelchair securement systems shall restrain a force in the forward longitudinal direction of 5,000 lbf (22,000 N) minimum for each wheelchair.

T603.4 Movement. Wheelchair securement systems shall limit the movement of an occupied wheelchair to 2 inches (51 mm) maximum in any direction when secured in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and when the non-rail vehicle is operating in normal conditions.
