
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XI - Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
### PART 1192 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Appendix A to Part 1192 - Accessibility Guidelines for Buses, Over-the-Road Buses, and Vans
##### http://www.iso.org/iso/home/store.htm,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html

T603.5 Securement Systems for Rear-Facing Wheelchair Positions. Rear-facing wheelchair securement systems shall provide forward excursion barriers and padded head rests that comply with ISO 10865-1:2012(E), Wheelchair containment and occupant retention systems for accessible transport vehicles designed for use by both sitting and standing passengers-Part 1: Systems for rearward facing wheelchair-seated passengers, First Edition, June 5, 2012 [ISO Standard 10865-1:2012(E)]. ISO Standard 10865-1:2012(E) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, a notice of change must be published in theand the material must be made available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the U.S. Access Board, 1331 F Street NW., Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20004-1111, (202) 272-0080 (voice), (202) 272-0082 (TTY) and is available from the International Organization for Standardization, ISO Central Secretariat, 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, CP 56, CH-1211, Geneva 20, Switzerland (). It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to.

T604.1 General. When wheelchair securement systems are not in use, the systems shall not protrude into the wheelchair space except as provided in T603.5, and shall not interfere with passenger movement or pose a hazard. Wheelchair securement systems shall be reasonably protected from vandalism, and shall be readily accessed then needed for use.

T605.1 General. Seat belts and shoulder belts provided for passengers who use wheelchairs shall comply with 49 CFR 571.209. Seat belts and shoulder belts shall not be used in place of wheelchair securement systems complying with T603.

T701.1 Scope. The requirements in Chapter 7 shall apply where required by Chapter 2 or where otherwise referenced in any other chapter of the Non-Rail Vehicle Guidelines.

T702.1 General. Signs on non-rail vehicles shall comply with T702.

T702.2 Character Style. Characters shall be displayed in sans serif fonts and shall not use italic, oblique, script, highly decorative, or other unusual forms.

T702.3 Character Proportions. Characters shall use fonts where the width of the uppercase letter "O" is 55 percent minimum and 110 percent maximum of the height of the uppercase letter "I".

T702.4 Character Height. Character height shall comply with Table T702.4. Character height shall be based on the uppercase letter "I".

T702.5 Stroke Thickness. Stroke thickness of the uppercase letter "I" shall be 10 percent minimum and 30 percent maximum of the height of the character.

T702.6 Character Spacing. Character spacing shall be measured between the two closest points of adjacent characters, excluding word spaces. Spacing between individual characters shall be 10 percent minimum and 35 percent maximum of character height.

T702.7 Line Spacing. Spacing between the baselines of separate lines of characters within a message shall be 135 percent minimum and 170 percent maximum of the character height.

T702.8 Contrast. Characters shall contrast with their background with either light characters on a dark background or dark characters on a light background. Where provided, protective surfaces over signs shall have a non-glare finish.

T703.1 General. The International Symbol of Accessibility shall comply with Figure T703.1. The symbol shall have a background field height of 4 inches (100 mm) minimum. The symbol and its background shall have a non-glare finish. The symbol shall contrast with its background with either a light symbol on a dark background or a dark symbol on a light background.

T704.1 General. Non-rail vehicles shall provide announcement systems in accordance with T704.

T704.2 Stop Request Systems. Stop request systems shall comply with T704.3.

T704.2.1 Audible and visible notification. Audible and visible notification shall be provided onboard indicating when passengers have requested to disembark at the next stop on the fixed route. Audible notifications shall be verbal or non-verbal signals and sound only once for each stop. Visible components of stop request systems shall include signs complying with T702, lights, or other visually perceptible indicators. Visible components shall illuminate or activate with a stop request, be viewable onboard from all wheelchair spaces and priority seats for passengers with disabilities, and extinguish when the doors open at a stop on non-rail vehicles.

T704.2.2 Operation. A mechanism for requesting stops shall be located at each wheelchair space and priority seat for passengers with disabilities. Operable parts on stop request systems shall comply with T304.

T704.3 Automated Announcement Systems. Automated systems for stop announcements and route identification announcements shall comply with T704.3.

T704.3.1 Automated Stop Announcements. Automated stop announcement systems shall provide audible and visible notification of upcoming stops on fixed routes. Stop announcements shall use synthesized, recorded or digitized speech and be audible within non-rail vehicles. Visible components of stop announcements shall consist of signs complying with T702. Signs shall be viewable onboard from all wheelchair spaces and priority seats for passengers with disabilities.

T704.3.2 Automated Route Identification Announcements. Automated route identification systems shall audibly and visibly identify the fixed route on which the non-rail vehicle is operating. Audible route identification announcements shall be broadcast externally at boarding and alighting areas using synthesized, recorded or digitized speech. Signs displaying route identification information shall be provided on the front and boarding sides of non-rail vehicles. Signs shall comply with T702.
