
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.57 Lake Meredith National Recreation Area.
##### Operational and vehicle requirements.

(7)The following requirements apply to the use of motor vehicles off roads in the recreation area:

(i) At Rosita, operating a motor vehicle in an isolated pool of water that is not connected to or touching flowing water is prohibited.

(ii) Operating a motor vehicle on vegetation is prohibited.

(iii) Glass containers are prohibited in designated areas, routes, and access points, and in camping zones.

(iv) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 35 mph (unless otherwise posted) on designated routes and access points at Blue Creek and Rosita is prohibited.

(v) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of the speed limits identified in paragraph (a)(5) (unless otherwise posted) in specific management zones is prohibited.

(vi) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 55 mph (unless otherwise posted) in the designated areas that are not part of a Low-Speed Zone on the river bottoms at Blue Creek and Rosita is prohibited.

(vii) All ATVs must be equipped with a whip-a pole, rod, or antenna-that is securely mounted on the vehicle and stands upright at least eight feet from the surface of the ground when the vehicle is stopped. This whip must have a solid red or orange safety flag with a minimum size of six inches by twelve inches that is attached no more than ten inches from the top of the whip. Flags must have a pennant, triangle, square, or rectangular shape.

(viii) A motor vehicle must display lighted headlights and taillights during the period from one-half hour before sunset to one half hour after sunrise.

(ix) Motor vehicles must have a functioning muffler system. Motor vehicles that emit more than 96 decibels of sound (using the SAE J1287 test standard) are prohibited.

(x) Operating a motor vehicle with a wheel width greater than 65 inches in a Resource Protection Zone is prohibited.
