
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.57 Lake Meredith National Recreation Area.
##### Bicycling.

(h)(1) The Superintendent may designate for bicycle use routes or portions of routes in the following sections of the park's multi-use recreational trail:

(i) Harbor Bay-Fritch Canyon area (approximately 5.7 miles);

(ii) Harbor Bay Short-Creek area (approximately 3.3 miles);

(iii) Short Creek-South Turkey Creek area (approximately 2.8 miles);

(iv) South Turkey Creek area (approximately 4.4 miles); and

(v) Fritch Fortress area (approximately 5.2 miles).

(2) Designation of bicycle routes or portions of routes shall be implemented with a written determination that the route is open for public use and that such bicycle use is consistent with the protection of the park area's natural, scenic and aesthetic values, safety considerations and management objectives, and will not disturb wildlife or park resources. Notice may be provided by posting signs and identifying routes on maps which shall be available in the office of the Superintendent and on the park's Web site.

(3) The Superintendent may open or close designated bicycle routes, or portions thereof, or impose conditions or restrictions for bicycle use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, carrying capacity, and other management activities and objectives.

(i) The Superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in ยง 1.7 of this chapter.

(ii) Violating a closure, condition, or restriction is prohibited.
