
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.58 Cape Hatteras National Seashore.
##### Hunting.

(a)(1) Lands within the Seashore on which hunting is legally permitted are designated as follows:

(i) Ocracoke Island, except Ocracoke village.

(ii) Hatteras Island, 500 acres, in three disconnected strips 250 feet wide measuring eastward from mean high water mark on Pamlico Sound between villages of Salvo and Avon and Buxton, and between Frisco and Hatteras.

(iii) Bodie Island, 1,500 acres, between high water mark of Roanoke Sound and a line 2,000 feet west of and parallel to U.S. Highway 158, and from the north dike of the Goosewing Club property on the north to the north boundary of the Dare County tract on the south.

(2) Seashore lands on which hunting is not permitted will be posted accordingly.

(3) This hunting plan will be administered and enforced by the National Park Service, through the Service's authorized local representative, the Superintendent of the Seashore, hereinafter referred to as the Superintendent.

(4) The State of North Carolina will assist in the enforcement of applicable State and Federal hunting laws and otherwise in carrying out this plan.

(5) Hunting will be restricted to waterfowl. Season length, opening and closing dates, bag limits and species of waterfowl which may be taken will be in accordance with the rules and regulations issued by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

(6) Hunting privileges will be free for all hunters possessing a North Carolina State hunting license and Federal migratory bird hunting stamp.

(7) Permanent blinds will be constructed exclusively by the Seashore and these will be built only on Bodie Island. Setting up and use of temporary or portable blinds by hunters will be permitted on Hatteras and Ocracoke Islands.

(8) Minimum distance between blinds on Seashore land and ponds within the designated hunting areas will be 300 yards unless other conditions, such as natural screening, justify a shorter distance.

(9) Hunting on Ocracoke Island will be permitted and managed in the same manner as Hatteras Island.

(10) "Jump shooting" of waterfowl will be permitted only on Hatteras and Ocracoke Islands and is prohibited within 300 yards of any blind.

(11) Properly licensed and authorized guides may provide hunting guide service within the designated hunting areas in the Seashore. They will not be permitted to solicit business within the boundaries of the Seashore and all arrangements with hunters must be made outside of those boundaries. Guides will be required to possess a North Carolina State guide license and to fulfill all requirements and conditions imposed by that license. Fees charged by guides must be approved in advance by the Superintendent. Each guide must also possess a permit issued by the Superintendent which authorizes him to guide hunters within the Seashore and the amount of the fees which he may charge.

(12) Guides shall have no permanent or seasonal blind rights within the Seashore and no special privileges other than those specified in this section.

(13) At 5:00 a.m. each morning the day of hunting a drawing for blind assignments will be conducted at the check-out station. Advance reservations for permission to draw will be accepted through the United States mail only. Reservations postmarked prior to 12:01 a.m. of September 25 will not be accepted. The postmark date and hour will establish and govern the priority of drawing. Maximum reservation by any person shall be three (3) consecutive days in any week, Monday through Saturday, and limited to a total of six (6) days during the season. Reservations shall have priority over nonreservations at drawing time. In the event a reservation is to be canceled, the Superintendent shall be informed by the party prior to drawing time for the date or dates of the reservation.

(14) The first departure from a blind by a person terminates his hunting privilege within Bodie Island for that day and the blinds may be reassigned by the Superintendent, Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area, or his duly authorized representative, for use by others later the same day. Vacating parties must check out and furnish information regarding their take at the checking station on Bodie Island located near the north boundary of the hunting area.

(15) Hunters and guides shall provide their own decoys and are required to leave the blind which they used in a clean, sanitary and undamaged condition.

(16) All hunters taking banded fowl shall turn in the bands at the check-out station.

(17) Details of this plan, interpretations and further information regarding it will be published in local newspapers and issued in circular form free to all interested persons.

(18) Access to blinds will be by designated foot trails. Vehicles will not be permitted to drive to the blind sites.

(19) Trained dogs will be permitted for retrieving providing they are kept under restraint by the hunter.

(20) Blinds will be limited to two persons without a guide and three including the guide. Only two guns will be permitted in each blind.

(21) All other regulations will be in accordance with the North Carolina State and Federal migratory bird hunting laws.
