
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1201 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions.
###### ยง 1201.10 Will NARA use a cross-servicing agreement with the Department of the Treasury to collect its claims?

(a) NARA may enter into a cross-servicing agreement that authorizes the Treasury to take the collection actions described in this part on behalf of NARA. This agreement will describe procedures that the Treasury uses to collect debts. The debt collection procedures that the Treasury uses are based on 31 U.S.C. chapter 37.

(b) NARA must transfer to the Treasury any debt that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days or more so that the Secretary of the Treasury may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection action. NARA may also transfer to the Treasury any debt that is less than 180 days delinquent.

(c) Paragraph (b) of this section will not apply to any debt or claim that:

(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;

(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sales program;

(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for collection for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary of the Treasury;

(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary of the Treasury;

(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within 3 years after the date the debt or claim is first delinquent; or

(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury.
