
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1201 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### ยง 1201.33 How will NARA coordinate salary offsets with other agencies?
####### Responsibilities of NARA as the paying agency (i.e. when the debtor owes a debt to another agency and is an employee of NARA).

(b)(1) Complete claim. When NARA receives a certified claim from a creditor agency (under the creditor agency's regulations adopted under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K), deductions should be scheduled to begin within three officially established pay intervals. Before deductions can begin, NARA sends the employee a written notice containing:

(i) A statement that NARA has received a certified claim from the creditor agency;

(ii) The amount of the claim;

(iii) The date salary offset deductions will begin; and

(iv) The amount of such deductions.

(2) Incomplete claim. When NARA receives an incomplete certification of debt from a creditor agency, NARA will return the claim with a notice that the creditor agency must:

(i) Comply with the procedures required under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and

(ii) Properly certify a claim to NARA before NARA will take action to collect from the employee's current pay account.

(3) NARA is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.

(4) Employees who transfer from NARA to another paying agency. If, after the creditor agency has submitted the claim to NARA, the employee transfers from NARA to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, NARA will certify the total amount collected on the debt and notify the employee and the creditor agency in writing. The notification to the creditor agency will include information on the employee's transfer.
