
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1202 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart D - Disclosure of Records
###### ยง 1202.62 What are the procedures for disclosure of records to a third party?

(a) To obtain access to records about a person other than yourself, address the request to the NARA Privacy Act Officer, National Archives and Records Administration, Room 3110, 8601 Adelphi Rd., College Park, MD 20740-6001. If you are requesting access for statistical research as described in ยง 1202.60(e), you must submit a written statement that includes as a minimum:

(1) A statement of the purpose for requesting the records; and

(2) Certification that the records will be used only for statistical purposes.

(b) NARA will acknowledge your request within 10 workdays and will make a decision within 30 workdays, unless NARA notifies you that the time limit must be extended for good cause.

(c) Upon receipt of your request, NARA will verify your right to obtain access to documents pursuant to ยง 1202.60. Upon verification, the system manager will make the requested records available to you.

(d) If NARA determines that the disclosure is not permitted under ยง 1202.60, the system manager will deny your request in writing. NARA will inform you of the right to submit a request for review of the denial and a final determination to the appropriate NARA Privacy Act Appeal Officer.
