
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.65 Assateague Island National Seashore.
##### Hunting.

(a)(1) Hunting, except with a shotgun, bow and arrow, or by falconry is prohibited. Hunting with a shotgun, bow and arrow, or by means of falconry is permitted in accordance with State law and Federal regulations in designated hunting areas.

(2) Hunting, or taking of a raptor for any purpose is prohibited except as provided for by permit in ยง 2.5 of this chapter.

(3) A hunter shall not enter upon Service-owned lands where a previous owner has retained use for hunting purposes, without written permission of such previous owner.

(4) Waterfowl shall be hunted only from numbered Service-owned blinds except in areas with retained hunting rights; and no firearm shall be discharged at waterfowl from outside of a blind unless the hunter is attempting to retrieve downed or crippled fowl.

(5) Waterfowl hunting blinds in public hunting areas shall be operated within two plans:

(i) First-come, first-served.

(ii) Advance written reservation.

(6) In order to retain occupancy rights, the hunter must remain in or near the blind except for the purpose of retrieving waterfowl. The leaving of decoys or equipment for the purpose of holding occupancy is prohibited.

(7) Hunters shall not enter the public waterfowl hunting area more than 1 hour before legal shooting time and shall be out of the hunting area within 45 minutes after close of legal shooting time. The blind shall be left in a clean and sanitary condition.

(8) Hunters using Service-owned shore blinds shall enter and leave the public hunting area via designated routes from the island.

(9) Prior to entering and after leaving a public hunting blind, all hunters shall check in at the registration box located on the trail to the blind he is or has been using.

(10) Parties in blinds are limited to two hunters and two guns unless otherwise posted at the registration box for the blinds.

(11) The hunting of upland game shall not be conducted within 300 yards of any waterfowl hunting blind during waterfowl season.

(12) Hunting on seashore lands and waters, except as designated pursuant to ยง 1.5 and ยง 1.7, is prohibited.
