
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1202 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart E - Request To Amend Records
###### ยง 1202.80 How do I appeal the denial of a request to amend a record?

(a) If you disagree with a denial of your request to amend a record, you can file an appeal of that denial.

(1) Address your appeal of the denial to amend records signed by a system manager other than the Inspector General, to the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official (ND), Room 3110, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD, 20740-6001.

(2) Address the appeal of the denial to amend records signed by the Inspector General to the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official (N), Room 3110, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD, 20740-6001.

(3) For current NARA employees if the denial to amend concerns a record maintained in the employee's Official Personnel Folder or in another Government-wide system maintained by NARA on behalf of another agency, NARA will provide the employee with name and address of the appropriate appeal official in that agency.

(b) Appeals to NARA must be in writing and must be postmarked no later than 35 calendar days from the date of the NARA denial of a request to amend. Your appeal letter and envelope must be marked "Privacy Act-Appeal".

(c) Upon receipt of an appeal, the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official will consult with the system manager, legal counsel, and such other officials as may be appropriate. If the appeal official determines that the record should be amended, he or she will instruct the system manager to amend the record in accordance with ยง 1202.74 and will notify you of that action.

(d) If, after consulting with officials specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official determines that your appeal should be rejected, the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official will notify you in writing of that determination. This notice serves as NARA's final determination on your request to amend a record. The letter to you will include:

(1) The reason for the rejection of your appeal;

(2) Proposed alternative amendments, if appropriate, which you may accept (see 36 CFR 1202.78 for the procedure);

(3) Notice of your right to file a Statement of Disagreement for distribution in accordance with ยง 1202.82; and

(4) Notice of your right to seek judicial review of the NARA final determination, as provided in ยง 1202.84.

(e) The NARA final determination will be made no later than 30 workdays from the date on which the appeal is received by the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official. In extraordinary circumstances, the NARA Privacy Act Appeal Official may extend this time limit by notifying you in writing before the expiration of the 30 workdays. The notification will include a justification for the extension of time.
