
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1202 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart F - Exemptions
###### ยง 1202.90 What NARA systems of records are exempt from release under the National Security Exemption of the Privacy Act?

(a) The Investigative Case Files of the Inspector General (NARA-23) and the Personnel Security Case Files (NARA-24) systems of records are eligible for exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) because the records in these systems:

(1) Contain information specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and

(2) Are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive Order.

(b) The systems described in paragraph (a) are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), and (e)(4)(G) and (H). Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) because accounting for each disclosure could result in the release of properly classified information which would compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy.

(2) From the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) because access to the records in these systems of records could result in the release of properly classified information which would compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy. Amendment of either of these series of records would interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement or national security activities and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.

(3) From subsection (e)(1) because verification of the accuracy of all information to the records could result in the release of properly classified information which would compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy.

(4) From subsection (e)(4)(G) and (H) because these systems are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d), pursuant to subsection (k)(1) of the Privacy Act.
