
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1206 - NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND RECORDS COMMISSION
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### ยง 1206.84 What is the format and content of the narrative report?

(a) Interim narrative reports should state briefly the performance objectives and activities for the entire grant and then focus on those accomplished during the reporting period. The report should include a summary of project activities; whether the project proceeded on schedule; any revisions of the work plan, staffing pattern, or budget; any web address created by the project; and any other press releases, articles, or presentations relating to the grant project or its products. It should include an analysis of the objectives met during the reporting period and any objectives for the period that were not accomplished. For documentary editing projects, it also must include information about the publication of volumes and the completion of finding aids, as well as any work that is pending with publishers.

(b) The final report must provide a detailed assessment of the entire project, following the format in paragraph (a) of this section, including whether the performance objectives and goals set in the original proposal were realistic; whether there were unpredicted results or outcomes; whether the project encountered unexpected problems and how you faced them; and how you could have improved the project. You must discuss the project's impact, if any, on the grant-receiving institution and others. You must indicate whether all or part of the project activities will be continued after the end of the grant, whether any of these activities will be supported by institutional funds or by grant funds, and if the NHPRC grant was instrumental in obtaining these funds.
