
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.65 Assateague Island National Seashore.
##### Rules of the road.

(4)(i) Oversand vehicles shall be operated only in established tracks on designated portions of the park area. No such vehicles shall be operated on any portion of a dune except at posted crossings nor shall such vehicles be driven so as to cut circles or otherwise needlessly deface the sand.

(ii) Oversand vehicles shall not be parked so as to interfere with the flow of traffic on designated oversand routes. Such vehicles may not park overnight on a beach seaward of the primary dune unless one member of the party is actively engaged in fishing at all times. Towed travel trailers used as self-contained vehicles in the off-road portion of the park area may not be parked on a beach seaward of the primary dunes.

(iii) Upon approaching or passing within 100 feet of a person on foot, the operator of an oversand vehicle shall reduce speed to 15 miles per hour. Speed at other times on any designated oversand route shall not exceed 25 miles per hour.

(iv) When two vehicles approach from opposite directions in the same track, both operators shall reduce speed; and the operator with the ocean on his right shall pull out of the track to allow the other vehicle to pass.

(v) Passengers shall not ride on the fenders, hood, roof, or tailgate, or in any other position outside of a moving oversand vehicle; and such vehicles shall not be used to tow a person on any recreational device over the sand or in the air or water of the park area.

(vi) During an emergency, the Superintendent may close the park; or he may suspend for such period as he shall deem advisable any or all of the foregoing regulations in the interest of public safety; and he may announce such closure or suspension by whatever means are available.
