
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.67 Cape Cod National Seashore.
##### What travel restrictions and special rules must I obey?

(4)You must comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter, including part 4, as well as the specific provisions of this section.

(i) On the beach, you must drive in a corridor extending from a point 10 feet seaward of the spring high tide drift line to the berm crest. You may drive below the berm crest only to pass a temporary cut in the beach, and you must regain the crest immediately following the cut. Delineator posts mark the landward side of the corridor in critical areas.

(ii) On an inland oversand route, you must drive only in a lane designated by pairs of delineator posts showing the sides of the route.

(iii) An oversand route is closed at any time that tides, nesting birds, or surface configuration prevent vehicle travel within the designated corridor.

(iv) When two vehicles meet on the beach, the operator of the vehicle with the water on the left must yield, except that self-contained vehicles always have the right of way.

(v) When two vehicles meet on a single-lane oversand route, the operator of the vehicle in the best position to yield must pull out of the track only so far as necessary to allow the other vehicle to pass safely, and then must back into the established track before resuming the original direction of travel.

(vi) If you make a rut or hole while freeing a stuck vehicle, you must fill the rut or hole before you remove the vehicle from the immediate area.
