
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1211 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX IN EDUCATION PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Procedures
###### ยง 1211.625 Decisions and notices.
####### Review in certain cases by the Archivist of the United States.

(e)If the Archivist has not personally made the final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, a recipient or applicant or the counsel for the agency may request the Archivist to review a decision of the reviewing authority in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. Such review is not a matter of right and shall be granted only where the Archivist determines there are special and important reasons therefor. The Archivist may grant or deny such request, in whole or in part. The Archivist may also review such a decision upon his own motion in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the National Archives and Records Administration. In the absence of a review under this paragraph (e), a final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall become the final decision of the agency when the Archivist transmits it as such to Congressional committees with the report required under 20 U.S.C. 1682. Failure of an applicant or recipient to file an exception with the reviewing authority or to request review under this paragraph (e) shall not be deemed a failure to exhaust administrative remedies for the purpose of obtaining judicial review.
