
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.67 Cape Cod National Seashore.
##### What requirements must I meet to operate an oversand vehicle?

(7)You may operate an oversand vehicle only if you first obtain an oversand permit from the Superintendent. The Superintendent administers the permit system for oversand vehicles and charges fees that are designed to recover NPS administrative costs.

(i) The oversand permit is a Special Use Permit issued under the authority of 36 CFR 1.6 and 4.10. You must provide the following information for each vehicle for which you request a permit:

(A) Name and address of registered owner;

(B) Driver's license number and State of issue;

(C) Vehicle license plate number and State of issue; and

(D) Vehicle description, including year, make, model and color; make, model and size of tires.

(ii) Before we issue a permit, you must:

(A) Demonstrate that your vehicle is equipped as required in paragraph (a)(6) of this section;

(B) Provide evidence that you have complied with all Federal and State licensing registering, inspecting and insurance regulations; and

(C) View an oversand vehicle operation educational program and ensure that all other potential operators view the same program.

(iii) The Superintendent will affix the permit to your vehicle at the time of issuance.

(iv) You must not transfer your oversand permit from one vehicle to another.
