
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter A - General Rules
#### PART 1213 - AGENCY GUIDANCE PROCEDURES
##### § 1213.4 Requirements for review and clearance.

(a) NARA's regulatory office must review and clear, according to this subpart, all NARA guidance documents before we issue them.

(b) The regulatory office ensures that each guidance document satisfies the following requirements:

(1) It complies with relevant statutes and regulations, and other applicable authorities;

(2) It identifies or includes:

(i) The term "guidance" or its functional equivalent;

(ii) The issuing office's name;

(iii) A unique agency identifier, according to naming conventions we establish, and a z-RIN, if applicable;

(iv) A concise title;

(iv) The issuing or effective date;

(v) An indicator of whether the guidance revises or replaces any previously issued guidance and, if so, sufficient information to identify the previously issued guidance; and

(vi) Appropriate citations to applicable statutes, regulations, and other authorities; and

(3) It is consistent with NARA policies, guidance, strategic initiatives, and other authorities, is written in plain and understandable English, and meets other guidance and policy analysis factors .

(c) The guidance document must also either contain or be accompanied by an appropriate topic keyword and a short summary of the subject matter covered in the guidance document, for use on the guidance portal.

(d) The regulatory office also assesses whether the guidance document constitutes significant guidance and works with the submitting office to make a good faith cost estimate, as applicable, in accordance with § 1213.8(a). If we determine that a guidance document might be significant, the regulatory office coordinates with OMB's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), as outlined in § 1213.8(d).

(e) We also assess whether the guidance document might be otherwise important to the agency's interests, if we reasonably anticipate that it might: Relate to a major program, policy, or activity, or a high-profile issue involving the agency or its interests; involve one of NARA's top policy priorities; garner significant press, congressional, or other attention; or raise significant questions or concerns from constituencies such as committees of Congress, states or Indian tribes, the White House or other departments of the executive branch, courts, public interest groups, or leading representatives of industry. When appropriate, we may determine that a particular guidance document that is otherwise of importance to the agency's interests be subject to the informal notice-and-comment procedures described in § 1213.8(f).

(f) The regulatory office submits guidance documents we determine may be significant to OIRA for significance determinations, before clearing the submitting office to issue them.

(f) When we issue a guidance document, we post it on our centralized guidance portal (see § 1213.6(a)).

85 FR 31979, May 28, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 21024, Apr. 11, 2022]
