
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1225 - SCHEDULING RECORDS
##### ยง 1225.12 How are records schedules developed?
###### Disposition of Federal Records,http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/publications/disposition-of-federal-records/index.html.

The principal steps in developing agency records schedules are listed below. Additional details that may be helpful are provided in the NARA records management handbook,at

(a) Conduct a functional or work process analysis to identify the functions or activities performed by each organization or unit. Identify the recordkeeping requirements for each.

(b) Prepare an inventory for each function or activity to identify records series, systems, and nonrecord materials.

(c) Determine the appropriate scope of the records schedule items, e.g., individual series/system component, work process, group of related work processes, or broad program area.

(d) Evaluate the period of time the agency needs each records series or system based on use, value to agency operations and oversight agencies, and legal obligations. Determine whether a fixed or flexible retention period is more appropriate. For records proposed as temporary, specify a retention period that meets agency business needs and legal requirements. For records proposed as permanent records, identify how long the records are needed by the agency before they are transferred to NARA.
