
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1226 - IMPLEMENTING DISPOSITION
##### ยง 1226.18 When may agencies temporarily extend retention periods?

(a) Agencies may temporarily retain records approved for destruction beyond their NARA-approved retention period if special circumstances alter the normal administrative, legal, or fiscal value of the records.

(1) Agencies must not retain records whose disposal after a specified period is required by statute, unless retention is ordered by a Court.

(2) In determining whether or not to temporarily extend the retention period of records, agencies must ensure that the extension of retention is consistent with the requirement contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a (Privacy Act of 1974, as amended) that records concerning individuals are maintained only if relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency that is required by law or Executive order.

(b) If the records that are to be temporarily retained beyond their approved destruction date have been transferred to records storage facilities, agencies must notify the facility.

(c) Once the special circumstances that require extended retention of records have elapsed, agencies must destroy the records in accordance with the NARA-approved disposition instructions.

(d) Agencies must submit an SF 115 to NARA to change schedule provisions on a continuing basis in accordance with ยง 1225.26 of this subchapter. Agencies may retain records eligible for destruction until the new schedule is approved.
