
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.70 Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.
##### Colorado River white-water boat trips.

(c)The following regulations shall apply to all persons using the waters of, or Federally owned land administered by the National Park Service along the Colorado River within Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, from the Lees Ferry launch ramp downstream to the eastern boundary of Grand Canyon National Park:

(1) No person shall operate a vessel engaging in predominantly upstream travel or having a total horsepower in excess of 55 without a permit from the Superintendent.

(2) U.S. Coast Guard approved life preservers shall be worn by every person while traveling in boats or rafts on this section of the river, or while lining or portaging near rough water. One extra preserver must be carried on each vessel for each ten (10) passengers.

(3) No person shall conduct, lead or guide a river trip through Glen Canyon Recreation Area unless such person possesses a permit issued by the Superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park. The National Park Service reserves the right to limit the number of such permits issued, or the number of persons traveling on trips authorized by such permits when in the opinion of the National Park Service such limitations are necessary in the interest of public safety or protection of the ecological and environmental values of the area.

(i) The Superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park shall issue a permit upon a determination that the person leading, guiding, or conducting a river trip is experienced in running rivers in white-water navigation of similar difficulty, and possesses appropriate equipment, which is identified in the terms and conditions of the permit.

(ii) No person shall conduct, lead, guide, or outfit a commercial river trip without first securing the above permit and possessing an additional permit authorizing the conduct of a commercial or business activity in the recreation area.

(iii) An operation is commercial if any fee, charge, or other compensation is collected for conducting, leading, guiding, or outfitting a river trip. A river trip is not commercial if there is a bona fide sharing of actual expenses.

(4) All human waste will be taken out of the Canyon and deposited in established receptacles, or will be disposed of by such means as is determined by the Superintendent.

(5) No person shall take a dog, cat, or other pet on a river trip.

(6) The kindling of a fire is permitted only on beaches. All fires must be completely extinguished only with water before abandoning the area.

(7) Swimming and bathing are permitted except in locations immediately above rapids, eddies, and riffles or near rough water.

(8) No camping is allowed along the Colorado River bank between the Lees Ferry launch ramp and the Navajo Bridge.

(9) All persons issued a river trip permit shall comply with all terms and conditions of the permit.
