
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.70 Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.
##### PWC.

(e)(1) A person may launch and operate a PWC in park waters or beach a PWC on park lands, except in the following areas:

(i) On the Colorado River between Glen Canyon Dam and the downstream river boundary of Glen Canyon National Recreation Area where it adjoins Grand Canyon National Park.

(ii) On the Colorado River upstream of Sheep Canyon.

(iii) On the San Juan River upstream of Clay Hills pullout.

(iv) On the Escalante River upstream of Coyote Creek.

(v) On the Dirty Devil River upstream of Utah Highway 95 bridge.

(2) A person may not operate a PWC at speed in excess of flat wake speed on the Escalante River from Cow Canyon to Coyote Creek.

(3) After December 31, 2012, no one may operate a PWC that does not meet the 2006 emission standards set by EPA for the manufacturing of two-stroke engines. A person operating a PWC that meets the EPA 2006 emission standards through the use of direct injection two-stroke or four-stroke engines, or the equivalent thereof, is not subject to this prohibition and will be allowed to operate as described in this section.

(4) The Superintendent may temporarily limit, restrict or terminate access to the areas designated for PWC use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.
