
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.70 Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.
##### Off-road motor vehicle permit requirement.

(2)(i) The provisions in this paragraph (f)(2) are effective beginning on May 17, 2021.

(ii) A special use permit issued and administered by the superintendent is required to operate a motor vehicle off GMP roads at designated locations in the recreation area. Operating a motor vehicle off GMP roads in the recreation area without a permit is prohibited except for designated ORV routes that do not require a permit as indicated in Table 1 to paragraph (f)(3)(ii).

(iii) Annual permits are valid for one calendar year from the day they are issued. Shorter-term permits are valid from the day issued for the stated duration of the permit.

(iv) A permit applicant must acknowledge that he or she understands and agrees to abide by the rules governing off-road vehicle use in the recreation area.

(v) Each motor vehicle permitted to operate off GMP roads must display an NPS decal issued by the superintendent and affixed to the vehicle in a manner and location specified by the superintendent.

(vi) Permits may be requested at recreation area headquarters, recreation area visitor centers, on the recreation area's website, or at other locations designated by the superintendent.

(vii) Violating any term, condition, or requirement of an off-road vehicle permit is prohibited and may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit and the denial of future permits, in addition to the penalties provided by ยง 1.3 of this chapter.
