
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1234 - FACILITY STANDARDS FOR RECORDS STORAGE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Facility Standards
###### § 1234.14 What are the requirements for environmental controls for records storage facilities?
####### Nontextual temporary records.

(b)Nontextual temporary records, including microforms and audiovisual and electronic records, must be stored in records storage space that is designed to preserve them for their full retention period. New records storage facilities that store nontextual temporary records must meet the requirements in this paragraph (b) beginning on September 28, 2005. Existing records storage facilities that store nontextual temporary records must meet the requirements in this paragraph (b) no later than October 1, 2009. At a minimum, nontextual temporary records must be stored in records storage space that meets the requirements for medium term storage set by the appropriate standard in this paragraph (b). In general, medium term conditions as defined by these standards are those that will ensure the preservation of the materials for at least 10 years with little information degradation or loss. Records may continue to be usable for longer than 10 years when stored under these conditions, but with an increasing risk of information loss or degradation with longer times. If temporary records require retention longer than 10 years, better storage conditions (cooler and drier) than those specified for medium term storage will be needed to maintain the usability of these records. The applicable standards are:

(1) ANSI/PIMA IT9.11 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3);

(2) ANSI/NAPM IT9.23 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3);

(3) ANSI/PIMA IT9.25 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3);

(4) ANSI/NAPM IT9.20 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3); and/or

(5) ANSI/NAPM IT9.18 (incorporated by reference, see § 1234.3).
