
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1234 - FACILITY STANDARDS FOR RECORDS STORAGE FACILITIES
##### Subpart D - Facility Approval and Inspection Requirements
###### ยง 1234.32 What does an agency have to do to certify a fire-safety detection and suppression system?
####### NARA action.

(b)(1) NARA will approve the fire-safety detection and suppression system within 10 work days if NARA has previously approved the system design for similarly configured space or if a report of independent testing of a new system design is furnished as documentation.

(2) If, in NARA's judgment, the supporting documentation provided in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section clearly demonstrates compliance with ยง 1234.12(s), NARA will approve the fire-safety detection and suppression system within 30 calendar days.

(3) If NARA questions whether supporting documentation demonstrates compliance with ยง 1234.12(s), NARA will consult the appropriate industry standards body or other qualified expert before making a determination. Before any consultation, NARA may ask the agency for additional clarifying information. NARA will notify the requesting agency within 30 calendar days of receipt of the request that consultation is necessary and will provide a final determination within 60 calendar days. If NARA does not approve the system, NARA will furnish a full explanation of the reasons for its decision.

(4) NARA will maintain a list of approved alternative systems.
