
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.70 Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.
##### Motor vehicle and operator requirements.

(5)(i) Motor vehicles must be equipped at all times with noise-suppression devices, including an exhaust muffler in good working order and in constant operation. Operating a motor vehicle that emits more than 96 decibels of sound (using the SAE J1287 test standard) is prohibited. Creating or sustaining unreasonable noise considering the nature and purpose of the actor's conduct, impact on park users, location, and other factors that would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person is prohibited.

(ii) All motor vehicles operating in Lone Rock Beach Play Area must be equipped with a solid red or orange safety flag that is a minimum of six by 12 inches in size and that is attached to the vehicle so that the safety flag is at least eight feet above the surface of the level ground, or attached to the protective headgear of a person operating a motorcycle or dirt bike so that the safety flag is at least 18 inches above the top of the person's headgear. Operating a motor vehicle without a safety flag at Lone Rock Beach Play Area is prohibited.

(iii) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 15 mph (unless otherwise posted) at the following off-road motor vehicle locations-Lone Rock Beach, Blue Notch, Bullfrog North and South, Copper Canyon, Crosby Canyon, Dirty Devil, Farley Canyon, Hite Boat Ramp, Neskahi, Nokai Canyon, Paiute Canyon, Paiute Farms, Red Canyon, Stanton Creek, and White Canyon-is prohibited.

(iv) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 25 mph (unless otherwise posted) on unpaved GMP roads and on off-road motor vehicle routes in Ferry Swale, Middle Moody Canyon Trailhead, East Gypsum Canyon Overlook, Imperial Valley, and Gunsight Springs Trailhead is prohibited.

(v) Operating a motor vehicle within a designated off-road motor vehicle area during quiet hours with the exception of entering and exiting a campsite is prohibited.

(vi) Operating a generator or audio device, such as a radio, deck or compact disc player, within a designated off-road motor vehicle area during quiet hours is prohibited. During the hours of permitted operation, generators must be adequately muffled and not create excessive noise as defined in 36 CFR 2.12(a)(1).

(vii) Operating a motor vehicle within a posted "vehicle-free" zone is prohibited.

(viii) Operating an OHV under the age of 18 without a helmet is prohibited.
