
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1235 - TRANSFER OF RECORDS TO THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES OF THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Transfer Specifications and Standards
###### ยง 1235.46 What electronic media may be used for transferring records to the National Archives of the United States?
####### Compact-Disk, Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) and Digital Video Disks (DVDs).

(c)Agencies may use CD-ROMs and DVDs to transfer permanent electronic records to the National Archives of the United States.

(1) CD-ROMs used for this purpose must conform to ANSI/NISO/ISO 9660 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 1235.4).

(2) Permanent electronic records must be stored in discrete files. Transferred CD-ROMs and DVDs may contain other files, such as software or temporary records, but all permanent records must be in files that contain only permanent records. Agencies must indicate at the time of transfer if a CD-ROM or DVD contains temporary records and where those records are located on the CD-ROM or DVD. The agency must also specify whether NARA should return the CD-ROM or DVD to the agency or dispose of it after copying the permanent records to an archival medium.

(3) If permanent electronic records are stored on both CD-ROM (or DVD) and other media, such as magnetic tape, the agency and NARA must agree on the medium that will be used to transfer the records into the National Archives of the United States.
