
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1235 - TRANSFER OF RECORDS TO THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES OF THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Transfer Specifications and Standards
###### ยง 1235.46 What electronic media may be used for transferring records to the National Archives of the United States?
####### File Transfer Protocol.,stillpix.accessions@nara.gov,mopix.accessions@nara.gov,etransfers@nara.gov.

(d)Agencies may use File Transfer Protocol (FTP) to transfer permanent electronic records to the National Archives of the United States only with NARA's approval. Several important factors may limit the use of FTP as a transfer method, including the number of records, record file size, and available bandwidth. Agencies must contact NARA, by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Special Media Records Division (RDS); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email at(for digital photographs) or(for electronic audiovisual records). For all other electronic records formats, contact NARA to initiate the transfer discussions, by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Electronic Records Division (RDE); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email atEach transfer of electronic records via FTP must be preceded with a signed SF 258 sent to RDE.

(1) FTP file structure may use the 64-character Joliet extension naming convention only when letters, numbers, dashes (-), and underscores (___) are used in the file and/or directory names, with a slash (/) used to indicate directory structures. Otherwise, FTP file structure must conform to an 8.3 file naming convention and file directory structure as cited in ANSI/NISO/ISO 9660 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 1235.4).

(2) Permanent electronic records must be transferred in discrete files, separate from temporary files. All permanent records must be transferred in files that contain only permanent records.
