
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1238 - MICROFORMS RECORDS MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart B - Microfilming Standards
###### ยง 1238.12 What documentation is required for microfilmed records?

Agencies must ensure that the microforms capture all information contained on the source documents and that they can be used for the purposes the source documents served. Microform records must be labeled and organized to support easy retrieval and use. Agencies must:

(a) Arrange, describe, and index the filmed records to permit retrieval of any particular document or component of the records.

(b) Title each microform roll or fiche with a titling target or header. For fiche, place the titling information in the first frame if the information will not fit on the header. At a minimum, titling information must include:

(1) The title of the records;

(2) The number or identifier for each unit of microform;

(3) The security classification, if any; and

(4) The name of the agency and sub-organization, the inclusive dates, names, or other data identifying the records to be included on a unit of microform.

(c) Add an identification target showing the date of microfilming. When necessary to give the microform copy legal standing, the target must also identify the person who authorized the microfilming. Use ANSI/AIIM MS19 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 1238.5) for standards for identification targets.
