
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter B - Records Management
#### PART 1238 - MICROFORMS RECORDS MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - Storage, Use, and Disposition of Microform Records
###### § 1238.22 What are the inspection requirements for permanent and unscheduled microform records?

(a) Agencies must inspect, or arrange for a contractor or NARA to inspect master microform of permanent or unscheduled records following the inspection requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The microforms listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be inspected initially in accordance with ANSI/AIIM MS45 (incorporated by reference, see § 1238.5). All microforms must be inspected when they are two years old. After the initial two-year inspection, unless there is a catastrophic event, the microforms must be inspected as follows until they are transferred to NARA:

(1) For microfilm produced after 1990, inspect the microfilm every 5 years.

(2) For microfilm produced prior to 1990, inspect the microfilm every 2 years.

(c) To facilitate inspection, the agency must maintain an inventory that lists each microform series or publication by production date, producer, processor, format, and results of previous inspections.

(d) The inspection must include the following elements:

(1) An inspection for aging blemishes following ANSI/AIIM MS45 (incorporated by reference, see § 1238.5);

(2) A rereading of resolution targets;

(3) A remeasurement of density; and

(4) A certification of the environmental conditions under which the microforms are stored, as specified in § 1238.20(a).

(e) The agency must prepare an inspection report, and send a copy to NARA in accordance with § 1238.28(c). The inspection report must contain:

(1) A summary of the inspection findings, including:

(i) A list of batches by year that includes the identification numbers of microfilm rolls and microfiche in each batch;

(ii) The quantity of microforms inspected;

(iii) An assessment of the overall condition of the microforms;

(iv) A summary of any defects discovered, e.g., redox blemishes or base deformation; and

(v) A summary of corrective actions taken.

(2) A detailed inspection log created during the inspection that contains the following information:

(i) A complete description of all records inspected (title; roll or fiche number or other unique identifier for each unit of film inspected; security classification, if any; and inclusive dates, names, or other data identifying the records on the unit of film);

(ii) The date of inspection;

(iii) The elements of inspection (see paragraph (d) of this section);

(iv) Any defects uncovered; and

(v) The corrective action taken.

(f) If an inspection finds that a master microform is deteriorating, the agency must make a silver duplicate in accordance with § 1238.14 to replace the deteriorating master. The duplicate microform must meet inspection requirements (see § 1238.22) before it may be transferred to a record center or NARA.

(g) Inspections must be conducted in environmentally controlled areas in accordance with ANSI/AIIM MS45 (incorporated by reference, see § 1238.5).
