
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 2 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### § 2.1 Preservation of natural, cultural and archeological resources.
##### Provided, however,

(4) Using or possessing wood gathered from within the park area:That the superintendent may designate areas where dead wood on the ground may be collected for use as fuel for campfires within the park area.

(5) Walking on, climbing, entering, ascending, descending, or traversing an archeological or cultural resource, monument, or statue, except in designated areas and under conditions established by the superintendent.

(6) Possessing, destroying, injuring, defacing, removing, digging, or disturbing a structure or its furnishing or fixtures, or other cultural or archeological resources.

(7) Possessing or using a mineral or metal detector, magnetometer, side scan sonar, other metal detecting device, or subbottom profiler.

(i) A device broken down and stored or packed to prevent its use while in park areas.

(ii) Electronic equipment used primarily for the navigation and safe operation of boats and aircraft.

(iii) Mineral or metal detectors, magnetometers, or subbottom profilers used for authorized scientific, mining, or administrative activities.

(b) The superintendent may restrict hiking or pedestrian use to a designated trail or walkway system pursuant to §§ 1.5 and 1.7. Leaving a trail or walkway to shortcut between portions of the same trail or walkway, or to shortcut to an adjacent trail or walkway in violation of designated restrictions is prohibited.

(c)(1) The superintendent may designate certain fruits, berries, nuts, or unoccupied seashells which may be gathered by hand for personal use or consumption upon a written determination that the gathering or consumption will not adversely affect park wildlife, the reproductive potential of a plant species, or otherwise adversely affect park resources.

(2) The superintendent may:

(i) Limit the size and quantity of the natural products that may be gathered or possessed for this purpose; or

(ii) Limit the location where natural products may be gathered; or

(iii) Restrict the possession and consumption of natural products to the park area.

(3) The following are prohibited:

(i) Gathering or possessing undesignated natural products.

(ii) Gathering or possessing natural products in violation of the size or quantity limits designated by the superintendent.

(iii) Unauthorized removal of natural products from the park area.

(iv) Gathering natural products outside of designated areas.

(v) Sale or commercial use of natural products.

(d) This section shall not be construed as authorizing the taking, use, or possession of fish, wildlife, or plants for ceremonial or religious purposes, except for the gathering and removal of plants or plant parts by enrolled members of an Indian tribe in accordance with § 2.6, or where specifically authorized by federal statutory law, treaty, or in accordance with § 2.2 or § 2.3.
