
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1250 - NARA RECORDS SUBJECT TO FOIA
##### Subpart A - General Information About Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Requests
###### ยง 1250.3 Definitions.
####### Representative of the news media

(q)means a person or entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public, and that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term "news" means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals, including print and online publications that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public. We consider requests for records that support the news-dissemination function of the requester to be a non-commercial use. We consider "freelance" journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity as working for that entity. A publishing contract provides the clearest evidence that a journalist expects publication; however, we also consider a requester's past publication record. We decide whether to grant a requester media status on a case-by-case basis, based on the requester's intended use.
