
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.75 Padre Island National Seashore.
##### Off-road motor vehicle and motorcycle operation.

(a)(1) The following regulations pertain to the operation of motor vehicles and motorcycles off established roads and parking areas. The operation of such vehicles and motorcycles is subject also to the applicable provisions of part 4 of this chapter and paragraphs (e) and (g) of this section.

(i) No person may operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without a valid operator's license or learner's permit in his possession; an operator who has a learner's permit must be accompanied by an adult who has a valid operator's license; a driver's license or learner's permit must be displayed upon the request of any authorized person.

(ii) In addition to the requirements of ยง 4.10 of this chapter, every motor vehicle and motorcycle must have an operable horn, windshield wiper or wipers (except motorcycles), brake light or lights, and rearview mirror.

(iii) Motor vehicles and motorcycles must have valid license plates.

(iv) Every motor vehicle and motorcycle must have a valid State vehicle inspection certificate when such certificate is required for highway use in the State in which the vehicle is licensed.

(v) When two motor vehicles or motorcycles meet on the beach, the operator of the vehicle in southbound traffic shall yield the right-of-way, where necessary, by turning out of the track to the right.
