
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1250 - NARA RECORDS SUBJECT TO FOIA
##### Subpart B - How To Request Records Under FOIA
###### ยง 1250.28 How do I request expedited processing?

(a) NARA processes requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever we determine that one or more of the following criteria exist:

(1) A reasonable expectation of an imminent threat to an individual's life or physical safety;

(2) A reasonable expectation of an imminent loss of a substantial due process right;

(3) An urgent need to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity (this criterion applies only to those requests made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information to the public); or

(4) A matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions that affect public confidence in the Government's integrity.

(b) NARA can expedite requests, or segments of requests, only for records over which we have control. If NARA must refer a request to another agency, we will inform you and suggest that you seek expedited review from that agency. NARA cannot expedite the review of classified records nor can we shorten the Presidential notification period described in 36 CFR 1250.26(j).

(c) To request expedited processing, you must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining the basis for your need for expedited processing. You must send the request to the appropriate official at the address listed in ยง 1250.22 of this subpart. You may request expedited processing when you first request records or at any time during NARA's processing of your request or appeal.

(d) We will respond to your request for expedited processing within 10 calendar days of our receipt of your request to expedite. If we grant your request, the NARA office responsible for the review of the requested records will process your request as a priority, and it will be processed as soon as practicable. We will inform you if we deny your request for expedited processing. If you decide to appeal that denial, we will expedite our review of your appeal.
