
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1254 - USING RECORDS AND DONATED HISTORICAL MATERIALS
##### Subpart C - Copying Archival Materials
###### Rules Relating to Using Copying Equipment
####### § 1254.86 May I use a personal paper-to-paper copier at the National Archives at College Park?
######## see

(3) The copying equipment must meet our standards for preservation (§§ 1254.26(d) and 1254.80); and

(4) Space is available for the personal copying project. NARA allows no more than 3 personal copying projects in the research room at one time, with Federal agencies given priority over other users.

(c) You must coordinate with research room management and oversee the installation and removal of copying equipment. You are responsible for the cost and supervision of all service calls and repairs. You must remove copying equipment and supplies within two business days after the personal copying project is completed.

(d) NARA is not responsible for any personal equipment or consumable supplies.

(e) You must be trained by NARA staff on the proper methods for handling and copying archival documents.

(f) You must abide by all regulations on copying stated in this subpart.

(g) We reserve the right to discontinue the privilege of using a personal copier at any time without notice. We discontinue your privilege if you violate one of the conditions in this subpart, we need to provide space for a Federal agency, or we lack staff to supervise the area.

(h) The collection of information contained in this section has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget with the control number 3095-0035.
