
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1254 - USING RECORDS AND DONATED HISTORICAL MATERIALS
##### Subpart D - Microfilming Archival Materials
###### ยง 1254.92 How do I submit a request to microfilm records and donated historical materials?

(a) You must submit your request to microfilm materials to the appropriate office.

(1) Submit your written request to microfilm archival records or donated historical materials (except donated historical materials under the control of the Office of Presidential Libraries) in the Washington, DC, area to the Assistant Archivist for Records Services-Washington, DC (NW), 8601 Adelphi Rd., College Park, MD 20740-6001.

(2) Submit your written request to microfilm archival records or donated historical materials in a NARA regional archives to the Assistant Archivist for Regional Records Services (NR), 8601 Adelphi Rd., College Park, MD 20740-6001.

(3) Submit your written request to microfilm records or donated historical materials in a Presidential library or donated historical materials in the Washington area under the control of the Office of Presidential Libraries to the Assistant Archivist for Presidential Libraries (NL), 8601 Adelphi Rd., College Park, MD 20740-6001.

(4) OMB control number 3095-0017 has been assigned to the information collection contained in this section.

(b) You must submit your request to use privately owned microfilm equipment four months in advance of the proposed starting date of the microfilming project. If you submit your request with less advance notice, we consider it and may approve it if we have available adequate NARA space and staff and if you can complete all training, records preparation, and other NARA requirements in a shorter time frame.

(1) You may include in your request only one project to microfilm a complete body of documents, such as an entire series, a major continuous segment of a very large series which is reasonably divisible, or a limited number of separate series related by provenance or subject.

(2) We do not accept additional requests from an individual or organization to microfilm records in a NARA facility while we evaluate an earlier request from that individual or organization to microfilm records at that facility.

(3) We establish the number of camera spaces available to a single project based upon the total number of projects approved for filming at that time.
