
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1254 - USING RECORDS AND DONATED HISTORICAL MATERIALS
##### Subpart D - Microfilming Archival Materials
###### ยง 1254.100 How does NARA evaluate requests?

(a) NARA evaluates requests by estimating how well completion of a proposed project would further our efforts to preserve and to make available to the public the historically valuable records of the Government.

(b) In considering multiple requests to film at the same time, we give priority to microfilming records that have research value for a variety of studies or that contain basic information for fields of research in which researchers have demonstrated substantial interest.

(c) The records to be filmed should be reasonably complete and not subject to future additions, especially of appreciable volumes, within the original body of records. Records with pending or future end-of-series additions are appropriate for filming.

(d) The records to be filmed should not have substantial numbers of documents withdrawn because of continuing national security classification, privacy, or other restrictions.

(e) We approve only requests to microfilm a complete body of documents, such as an entire series or a major continuous segment of a very large series that is reasonably divisible. Microfilming a complete body of documents means that you must consecutively copy all documents within the file unit(s), from the first to the last page, not skipping any pages in between except for pages that are exact duplicates or blank pages that are not included in a pagination scheme.

(f) We normally approve only requests that include assurances that the project will adhere to the specifications in part 1230 of this chapter concerning microfilm stock standards, index placement, and microfilm processing for permanent records.

(g) We approve only requests that specify that NARA will receive a first generation silver halide duplicate negative containing no splices made from the original camera negative of the microform record created in accordance with part 1230 of this chapter.

(1) We may use this duplicate negative microform to make duplicate preservation and reference copies. The copies may be made available for NARA and public use in NARA facilities and programs immediately upon receipt.

(2) We may also make additional use of the microform, as indicated in ยง 1254.98, seven years after you complete filming at the NARA facility, or upon delivery of the publication if there is no commercial distributor, or when the commercial distributor is no longer available, whichever occurs first. We may choose to add our own editorial material to the microform copies.

(3) You must deliver detailed roll lists with the microfilm. The lists must give the full range of file titles and a complete list of all file numbers on each roll of microfilm. We prefer that the list be provided in a fielded, electronic format to facilitate its use by staff and researchers. If the electronic format is a data file with defined or delimited fields, you should transfer with the file the records layout identifying the fields, any coded values for fields, and explanations of any delimiters.

(4) Microfilm projects may donate to us additional indexes and finding aids. NARA and the microfilm project execute a deed of gift that specifies restrictions on NARA's use and dissemination of these products under mutually acceptable terms.
