
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1254 - USING RECORDS AND DONATED HISTORICAL MATERIALS
##### Subpart D - Microfilming Archival Materials
###### ยง 1254.106 What are NARA's equipment standards?

(a) Because we have limited space in many NARA facilities, microfilm/fiche equipment should be operable from a table top unless we have given written permission to use free standing/floor model cameras. You may only use planetary type camera equipment. You may not use automatic rotary cameras and other equipment with automatic feed devices. We may approve your use of book cradles or other specialized equipment designed for use with bound volumes, oversized documents, or other formats, as well as other camera types not specified here, on a case-by-case basis.

(b) The power consumption of the equipment normally must not exceed 1.2 kilowatts. Power normally available is 115 volts, 60 hz. You must make requests for electricity exceeding that normally available at least 90 days in advance.

(c) You may not use equipment having clamps or other devices to exert pressure upon or to attach the document to any surface in a way that might damage the document.

(d) The equipment must not use a heat generating light source in close enough proximity to the documents to result in their physical distortion or degradation. All sources of ultraviolet light must be filtered.
