
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1256 - ACCESS TO RECORDS AND DONATED HISTORICAL MATERIALS
##### Subpart B - Access to Federal Archival Records
###### ยง 1256.28 Does NARA make any exceptions for access to records containing privacy-restricted information?
####### Conditions of access.

(d)Researchers who are granted access to restricted records, all others associated with the research project who will have access to personally identifiable information from the records, and the manager of any facility handling the records containing personal identifiers must agree in writing to maintain the confidentiality of the information and to adhere to the conditions of access imposed by NARA. NARA will impose the following conditions of access on any project; additional conditions may be imposed on the use of specific records or on specific projects:

(1) The records may be used only for the purpose of the research and for the reporting of research findings as described in the approved research project. The records may not be used for any other purpose;

(2) The records and any authorized copies of records may not be transferred to any person or institution not directly involved with the approved research project and subject to a written agreement to maintain confidentiality specified in ยง 1256.28(d);

(3) Reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards, as approved by NARA, to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the records must be established by the researcher and followed by all persons associated with the project;

(4) When required by NARA, the records must be consulted at the NARA facility where the records are located;

(5) The researcher's notes must not contain any individually identifiable information. The researcher must use an alternate code system to render personally identifiable information as anonymous in all research notes;

(6) Persons who are identified in the records may not be contacted by or on behalf of the researcher;

(7) Before publication or public presentation of the data, the final research product(s) must be provided to the Deputy Archivist of the United States for review. NARA's review is limited to ensuring that there is no possible identification of individuals in the research findings. NARA will not evaluate the validity of the research findings.
