
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter C - Public Availability and Use
#### PART 1256 - ACCESS TO RECORDS AND DONATED HISTORICAL MATERIALS
##### Subpart E - Access to Materials Containing National Security-Classified Information
###### ยง 1256.80 How does NARA provide classified access to historical researchers and former Presidential appointees?

(a) In accordance with the requirements of section 4.4 of E.O. 12958, as amended, we may grant access to classified information to certain eligible persons. These persons are engaged in historical research projects or previously occupied policy-making positions to which they were appointed by the President. If you seek permission to examine materials under this special historical researcher/Presidential appointees access program, you must contact NARA in advance. We need at least 4 months before you wish to have access to the materials to permit time for the responsible agencies to process your request for access. If you seek access to classified Presidential records under section 4.4 of E.O. 12958, you must first qualify under special access provisions of 44 U.S.C. 2205. NARA informs you of the agencies to which you have to apply for permission to examine classified information, including classified information originated by the White House or classified information in the custody of the National Archives which was originated by a defunct agency.

(b) You may examine records under this program only after the originating or responsible agency:

(1) Determines in writing that access is consistent with the interest of national security; and

(2) Takes appropriate steps to protect classified information from unauthorized disclosure or compromise, and ensures that the information is safeguarded in a manner consistent with Executive Order 12958, as amended.

(c) The originating or responsible agency limits the access granted to former Presidential and Vice Presidential appointees to items that the person originated, reviewed, signed, or received while serving as an appointee.

(d) To protect against the possibility of unauthorized access to restricted documents, a director may issue instructions supplementing the research room rules provided in 36 CFR part 1254.
