
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.83 Ozark National Scenic Riverways.
##### Commercial Activities.

(c)The activities listed herein constitute commercial activities which are prohibited within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways, except in accordance with the provisions of a permit, contract, or other written agreement with the United States. The National Park Service reserves the right to limit the number of such permits, contracts or other written agreements, when, in the judgment of the Service, such limitation is necessary in the interest of visitor enjoyment, public safety, or preservation or protection of the resources or values of the Riverways.

(1) The sale or rental of any goods or equipment to a member or members of the public which is undertaken in the course of an ongoing or regular commercial enterprise.

(2) The performance of any service or activity for a member or members of the public in exchange for monetary or other valuable consideration.

(3) The delivery or retrieval within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways of watercraft or associated boating equipment which has been rented to a member or members of the public at a location not within the Riverways, when such delivery or retrieval is performed by a principal, employee or agent of the commercial enterprise offering the equipment for rental and when these services are performed as an integral part, necessary complement, or routine adjunct of or to the rental transaction, whether or not any charge, either separately or in combination with any other charge, is made for these services.

(4) The performance, by a principal, employee, or agent of a commercial enterprise, within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways of any other service or activity for which a fee, charge or other compensation is not collected, but which is an integral part, necessary complement, or routine adjunct of or to any commercial transaction undertaken by that enterprise for which monetary or other valuable consideration is charged or collected, even though such transaction is initiated, performed, or concluded outside the boundaries of the Riverways.

(5) The solicitation of any business, employment, occupation, profession, trade, work or undertaking, which is engaged in with some continuity, regularity or permanency for any livelihood, gain, benefit, advantage, or profit.
