
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 2 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 2.3 Fishing.

(a) Except in designated areas or as provided in this section, fishing shall be in accordance with the laws and regulations of the State within whose exterior boundaries a park area or portion thereof is located. Nonconflicting State laws are adopted as a part of these regulations.

(b) State fishing licenses are not required in Big Bend, Crater Lake, Denali, Glacier, Isle Royale (inland waters only), Mammoth Cave, Mount Rainer, Olympic and Yellowstone National Parks.

(c) Except in emergencies or in areas under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, the superintendent shall consult with appropriate State agencies before invoking the authority of ยง 1.5 for the purpose of restricting or closing park areas to the taking of fish.

(d) The following are prohibited:

(1) Fishing in fresh waters in any manner other than by hook and line, with the rod or line being closely attended.

(2) Possessing or using as bait for fishing in fresh waters, live or dead minnows or other bait fish, amphibians, nonpreserved fish eggs or fish roe, except in designated waters. Waters which may be so designated shall be limited to those where non-native species are already established, scientific data indicate that the introduction of additional numbers or types of non-native species would not impact populations of native species adversely, and park management plans do not call for elimination of non-native species.

(3) Chumming or placing preserved or fresh fish eggs, fish roe, food, fish parts, chemicals, or other foreign substances in fresh waters for the purpose of feeding or attracting fish in order that they may be taken.

(4) Commercial fishing, except where specifically authorized by Federal statutory law.

(5) Fishing by the use of drugs, poisons, explosives, or electricity.

(6) Digging for bait, except in privately owned lands.
