
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter F - Nixon Presidential Materials
#### PART 1275 - PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION OF AND ACCESS TO THE PRESIDENTIAL HISTORICAL MATERIALS OF THE NIXON ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Public Access to Materials
###### § 1275.44 Segregating and reviewing.

(a) During the processing period described in § 1275.42, the Archivist will assign archivists to segregate private or personal materials, as defined in § 1275.16(b). The archivists have sole responsibility for the initial review and determination of private or personal materials. At all times when the archivists or other authorized officials have access to the materials in accordance with these regulations, they will take all reasonable steps to minimize the degree of intrusion into private or personal materials. Except as provided in these regulations, the archivists or other authorized officials will not disclose to any person private or personal or otherwise restricted information learned as a result of their activities under these regulations.

(b) During the processing period described in § 1275.42, the Archivist will assign archivists to segregate materials neither relating to abuses of governmental power, as defined in § 1275.16(c), nor otherwise having general historical significance, as defined in § 1275.16(d). The archivists have sole responsibility for the initial review and determination of those materials which are not related to abuses of governmental power and do not otherwise have general historical significance.

(c) During the processing period described in § 1275.42, the Archivist will assign archivists to segregate materials subject to restriction, as prescribed in §§ 1275.48 and 1275.50. The archivists have sole responsibility for the initial review and determination of materials that should be restricted. The archivists insert a notification of withdrawal at the front of the file folder or container affected by the removal of restricted material. The notification includes a brief description of the restricted material and the basis for the restriction as prescribed in §§ 1275.48 and 1275.50.
