
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter F - Nixon Presidential Materials
#### PART 1275 - PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION OF AND ACCESS TO THE PRESIDENTIAL HISTORICAL MATERIALS OF THE NIXON ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart D - Public Access to Materials
###### ยง 1275.54 Appeal of restrictions.

The Nixon Presidential Library controls the Nixon Presidential historical materials. Upon petition of any researcher who claims in writing to the library director that the restriction of specified materials is inappropriate and should be removed, the archivists will submit the pertinent materials, or representative examples of them, to the library director. The library director reviews the restricted materials, and consults with interested Federal agencies as necessary. To the extent these consultations require the transfer of copies of materials to Federal officials outside NARA, the library director will comply with the requirements of ยง 1275.32. As necessary and practicable, the library director will also seek the views of any person whose rights or privileges might be adversely affected by a decision to open the materials. The library director prepares a final written decision as to the continued restriction of all or part of the pertinent materials. The library director's decision constitutes the final administrative determination. The library director will notify the petitioner and other interested people of the final administrative determination within 60 calendar days following receipt of such petition.
