
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.86 Big Cypress National Preserve.
##### Travel in Preserve areas.

(2)(i) Unless closed or restricted by action of the Superintendent under paragraph (a)(2)(iii), the following areas, which are shown on a map numbered BC-91-001, dated November 1975, and available for public inspection at the office of the Superintendent, are open to motorized vehicles:

(A) The area south and west of Loop Road (State Road #B94).

(B) The area north of Tamiami Trail.

(ii) The following areas which are shown on a map numbered BC-91-001, dated November 1975, and available for public inspection at the office of the Superintendent, are closed to motorized vehicles:

(A) The areas between the Loop Road (State Hwy. #B94) and the Tamiami Trail (U.S. Hwy. #B41), except that the Superintendent may issue a permit to provide for reasonable access by legal residents or to provide access by authorized oil and gas companies.

(B) Big Cypress Florida Trail, Section 1, One marked main hiking trail, from Tamiami Trail to Alligator Alley; and the two marked loop trails are closed to the use of all motorized vehicles, except that vehicles may cross the trails.

(iii) The Superintendent may temporarily or permanently close or restrict the use of any areas and routes otherwise designated for use of motor vehicles, or close or restrict such areas or routes to the use of particular types of motor vehicles by the posting of appropriate signs, or by marking on a map which shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Superintendent, or both. In determining whether to close or restrict the uses of the areas or routes under this paragraph, the Superintendent shall be guided by the criteria contained in sections 3 and 4 of E.O. 11644 (37 FR 2877) as amended, and shall also consider factors such as other visitor uses, safety, wildlife management, noise, erosion, geography, vegetation, resource protection, and other management considerations. Prior to making a temporary or permanent closure the Superintendent shall consult with the executive director of the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission. Prior to instituting a permanent closure of an area or route, notice of such intention shall be published in theand the public shall be provided a period of 30 days to comment.
