
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.86 Big Cypress National Preserve.
##### Operations, limitations and equipment,Vehicle operation.

(3)-(i)(A) Motorized vehicle permits shall be required after December 21, 1980.

(B) Motorized vehicles shall not be operated in a manner causing, or likely to cause, significant damage to or disturbance of the soil, wildlife habitat, improvements, cultural, or vegetative resources. Cutting, grading, filling or ditching to establish new trails or to improve old trails is prohibited, except under written permit where necessary in the exploration for, extraction or removal of oil and gas.

(ii) Vehicle Limitations and Equipment.

(A) [Reserved]

(B) The Superintendent, by the posting of appropriate signs or by marking on a map, which shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Superintendent, may require during dry periods, that a motorized vehicle or a particular class of motorized vehicle, operated off established roads and parking areas, shall be equipped with a spark arrestor that meets Standard 5100-1a of the Forest Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or the 80 percent efficiency level when determined by the appropriate Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Standard.

(C) A motorized vehicle, except an airboat, when operated off of established roads and parking areas during the period from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, shall display at least one forward-facing white headlight and one red lighted taillight each of which shall be visible for a distance of 500 feet in their respective directions under clear atmospheric conditions.

(D) Airboats and amphibious vehicles shall fly a safety flag at least 10 inches wide by 12 inches long at a minimum height of 10 feet above the bottom of the vehicle or boat, and shall display one white light aft visible for 360&#xB0; at a distance of 500 feet when running during the period from one-half hour before sunset to one-half hour after sunrise.
