
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter G - NARA Facilities
#### PART 1280 - USE OF NARA FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Rules for Filming, Photographing, or Videotaping on NARA Property or in NARA Facilities
###### ยง 1280.48 Applying to film, photograph, or videotape for news purposes.
####### public.affairs@nara.gov,

(a) If you wish to film, photograph, or videotape for news purposes at the National Archives Building (as delineated in ยง 1280.2(a)), the National Archives at College Park, or the Washington National Records Center, you must request permission from the NARA Public Affairs Officer by email atby phone at 202.357.5300, or by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; 700 Pennsylvania Avenue NW; Public Affairs Office; Washington, DC 20408-0001. See also ยง 1280.42(b) for additional permissions relating to the Washington National Records Center.

(b) If you wish to film, photograph, or videotape for news purposes at a Presidential library or at an archival research room facility, you must contact the director of the library (see 36 CFR 1253.3 for contact information) or archival research room facility (see 36 CFR 1253.5 for contact information) to request permission.

(c) Your request for permission to film, photograph, or videotape for news purposes must contain the following information (OMB control number 3095-0040):

(1) The name of the organization you are working for;

(2) Areas you wish to film, photograph, or videotape;

(3) Documents, if any, you wish to film;

(4) The purpose of the project you are working on;

(5) What you intend to do with the film, photograph, or videotape; and

(6) How long you will need to complete your work on or in NARA property or facilities.

(d) You must request permission at least two weeks in advance of your desired filming date. If you make a request within a shorter time period, we may not be able to accommodate your request.

(e) If you would like to use NARA equipment, you must also sign an agreement, NA Form 11010, Waiver of Liability (OMB control number 3095-0040).

(f) This section does not apply to you if you have permission to use your own microfilming equipment to film archival records and donated historical materials under the provisions of 36 CFR 1254.90-1254.110. You must follow the procedures in 36 CFR part 1254 for permission to film archival records and donated materials for research purposes or for microfilm publications.
