
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter G - NARA Facilities
#### PART 1280 - USE OF NARA FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Rules for Filming, Photographing, or Videotaping on NARA Property or in NARA Facilities
###### ยง 1280.52 Rules for filming, photographing, or videotaping for news purposes.

The following conditions and restrictions apply to anyone that has been granted permission to film, photograph, or videotape for news purposes under subpart B of this part:

(a) We may limit or prohibit use of artificial light in connection with filming, photographing, or videotaping documents for news purposes. You may not use any supplemental lighting devices while filming, photographing, or videotaping inside a NARA facility in the Washington, DC, area without the prior permission of the NARA Public Affairs Officer. If the Public Affairs Officer approves your use of artificial lighting in the Rotunda or other exhibit areas, we will use facsimiles in place of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, or other documents. If we approve your use of high intensity lighting, we will cover or replace with facsimiles all other exhibited documents that fall within the boundaries of such illumination. You may not use any supplemental lighting devices at the Presidential libraries and the archival research room facilities without permission from a NARA representative at that facility.

(b) While filming, photographing, or videotaping, you are liable for injuries to people or property that result from your activities on or in NARA property and facilities.

(c) At all times while on or in NARA property and facilities, you must conduct your activities in accordance with all applicable regulations contained in this part.

(d) Your filming, photographing, or videotaping activity may not impede people who are entering or exiting any NARA facility unless otherwise authorized by the facility's director, or by the NARA Public Affairs Officer for Washington, DC, area facilities.

(e) You must be accompanied by a NARA staff member when filming, photographing, or videotaping the interior of any NARA facility.

(f) We will approve your request to do press interviews of NARA personnel on or in NARA property and facilities only when such employees are being interviewed in connection with official business. Interviews with staff and researchers may take place only in areas designated by the NARA Public Affairs Officer for Washington, DC, area facilities, or by the appropriate NARA representative at other NARA facilities.

(g) You may film and photograph documents only in those areas which the NARA Public Affairs staff designates in the National Archives Building, the National Archives at College Park, or the Washington National Records Center, or in those areas designated as appropriate by the staff liaison at other NARA facilities.

(h) We will limit your film and photography sessions to two hours.

(i) You may not state or imply that NARA approves of or will sponsor:

(1) Your activities or views; or

(2) The uses to which you put images depicting any NARA facility.
