
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter G - NARA Facilities
#### PART 1280 - USE OF NARA FACILITIES
##### Subpart C - Additional Rules for Using Public Areas of NARA Property or Facilities
###### ยง 1280.60 Permitting use of public areas.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(1) Examples of private use that relate to or further NARA's archival, records, or other interests include, but are not limited to: Meetings and other business activities held by archival, historical, or other professional organizations with a connection to NARA's holdings or mission; activities or events that promote research in, or use or preservation of, NARA holdings; invitation-only screening of film or TV premieres when NARA holdings have been used in the production or when the screening otherwise promotes use of NARA holdings (documentary film premiere); and dinners, receptions, or other private group events where the connection to NARA is the location itself (The National Archives Building or a Presidential library) or the opportunity to view NARA exhibits. Private group events may include events of a personal or social nature, such as weddings and wedding receptions, and school-sponsored activities.

(2) Each NARA facility with public use space determines whether and what kind of events of a personal nature the facility can support, given the size and configuration of available space, staff availability, and other logistical factors. We also reserve the right to limit the number and size of personal celebrations, and to limit or prohibit activities as part of a private group event that pose a risk to the facility, property, people, or our holdings. If you are interested in holding a private group event at a NARA facility, contact that facility directly for more information. See 36 CFR part 1253 for facility listings and contact information.

(3) We may charge fees for private group and government organization use of these public areas and the services related to such use. See ยง 1280.68. NARA, the Foundation, or Presidential library foundations may collect the fees.
