
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.86 Big Cypress National Preserve.
##### Grazing.

(f)(1) Grazing privileges shall be available under permit to owners or lessees who were actually using land within the Preserve for grazing purposes on October 11, 1974, or who elected to request a permit at the time the land was acquired for preserve purposes (See 36 CFR 2.60).

(2) Such permit may be renewed during the lifetime of the permittee or his spouse.

(3) The breach of any of the terms or conditions of the permit or the regulations applicable thereto shall be grounds for termination, suspension or denial of grazing privileges.

(4) Except as provided below, failure to use land under permit for grazing or to renew the permit shall automatically terminate the permit and grazing privileges. The Superintendent may issue a nonuse permit on an annual basis not to exceed three consecutive years, except that nonuse beyond this time may be permitted if necessitated by reasons clearly outside the control of the permittee.

(5) Annual fees based on Departmental regulations (43 CFR 4125.1-1 (m)) will be charged for all livestock grazing upon preserve lands.

(6) Each permittee shall comply with the range management plan approved by the Superintendent for the area under permit.

(7) State laws and regulations relating to fencing, sanitation and branding are applicable to graziers using preserve lands.

(8) The National Park Service reserves the right to full and unrestricted use of the lands under permit including, but not limited to, such purposes as managed hunting programs executed in accordance with applicable State Game and Fish laws and regulations, use of existing roads and trails, unrestricted public access, and the right to revoke the permit if the activity is causing or will cause considerable adverse effect on the soil, vegetation, watershed or wildlife habitat.

(9) Corporations formed by owners or lessees who were actually using lands within the preserve for grazing purposes on October 11, 1974, may be issued annual permits for a period not to exceed twenty-five (25) years from the date of acquisition for preserve purposes.
