
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XII - National Archives and Records Administration
### Subchapter G - NARA Facilities
#### PART 1281 - PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY FACILITIES
##### ยง 1281.12 What information must be provided to NARA for its report to Congress on a change or addition to a Presidential library facility?

(a) NARA must submit a report to Congress on a proposed physical or material change or addition to an existing library that is being funded wholly by gift. The foundation or other party offering the gift to NARA must help NARA as necessary in compiling the information needed for the report. Required information must be sent to the Office of Presidential Libraries (NL), Room 2200, 8601 Adelphi Rd., College Park, MD 20740-6001, far enough in advance of the Archivist's acceptance of the gift for NARA to compile and submit the report to Congress in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 2112(a)(5). The normal lead time for submitting the required information on physical or material changes or additions is at least nine (9) months in advance of the anticipated date that work will begin on the physical or material change or addition to the library. The collection of information contained in this section has been approved under the Paperwork Reduction Act by the Office of Management and Budget with the control number 3095-0036.

(b) Paragraph (a)(4) of 44 U.S.C. 2112 lists the information that NARA must include in its report to Congress. The donor and NARA will agree as part of the planning process what information the donor will provide and when, but donors will normally be responsible, at a minimum, for providing the following information to NARA:

(1) A description of the gift, which must include as appropriate:

(i) The legal description of the land, including plat;

(ii) Site plan, floor plans, building sections and elevations, artist's representation of building and grounds as they will be affected by the gift;

(iii) Description of building contents that are part of the gift, including furniture, equipment, and museum installations;

(iv) For endowment libraries, a measurement of the addition or change to the facility in accordance with ยง 1281.16; and

(v) A review of all critical spaces where NARA holdings will be stored, used, or exhibited, including information on life-safety, environmental, holdings storage, and other systems against NARA standards.

(2) A statement of the estimated total cost of the proposed physical or material change or addition to the library, and, for endowment libraries, an estimate of the amount of the additional endowment required pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2112(g).

(3) A statement of the purpose of the proposed change or addition.

(4) A written certification that the library and the equipment therein will comply with NARA standards after the change or addition is made.
