
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter XVI - Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
### PART 1600 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF DOCUMENTS AND RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 1600.10 Fees.
###### Representative of the news media,,news media requester,,news,news,freelance

(6)ormeans any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The termmeans information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances where they can qualify as disseminators of) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. Forjournalists to be regarded as working for a news organization, they must demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Foundation shall also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination. To be in this category, a requester must not be seeking the requested records for a commercial use. However, a request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use.
