
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 2 - RESOURCE PROTECTION, PUBLIC USE AND RECREATION
#### ยง 2.5 Research specimens.

(a) Taking plants, fish, wildlife, rocks or minerals except in accordance with other regulations of this chapter or pursuant to the terms and conditions of a specimen collection permit, is prohibited.

(b) A specimen collection permit may be issued only to an official representative of a reputable scientific or educational institution or a State or Federal agency for the purpose of research, baseline inventories, monitoring, impact analysis, group study, or museum display when the superintendent determines that the collection is necessary to the stated scientific or resource management goals of the institution or agency and that all applicable Federal and State permits have been acquired, and that the intended use of the specimens and their final disposal is in accordance with applicable law and Federal administrative policies. A permit shall not be issued if removal of the specimen would result in damage to other natural or cultural resources, affect adversely environmental or scenic values, or if the specimen is readily available outside of the park area.

(c) A permit to take an endangered or threatened species listed pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, or similarly identified by the States, shall not be issued unless the species cannot be obtained outside of the park area and the primary purpose of the collection is to enhance the protection or management of the species.

(d) In park areas where the enabling legislation authorizes the killing of wildlife, a permit which authorizes the killing of plants, fish or wildlife may be issued only when the superintendent approves a written research proposal and determines that the collection will benefit science or has the potential for improving the management and protection of park resources.

(e) In park areas where enabling legislation does not expressly prohibit the killing of wildlife, a permit authorizing the killing of plants, fish or wildlife may be issued only when the superintendent approves a written research proposal and determines that the collection will not result in the derogation of the values or purposes for which the park area was established and has the potential for conserving and perpetuating the species subject to collection.

(f) In park areas where the enabling legislation prohibits the killing of wildlife, issuance of a collecting permit for wildlife or fish or plants, is prohibited.

(g) Specimen collection permits shall contain the following conditions:

(1) Specimens placed in displays or collections will bear official National Park Service museum labels and their catalog numbers will be registered in the National Park Service National Catalog.

(2) Specimens and data derived from consumed specimens will be made available to the public and reports and publications resulting from a research specimen collection permit shall be filed with the superintendent.

(h) Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.
