
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.91 Whiskeytown Unit, Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.
##### Gold Panning.

(d)(1) As used in this section, the term "gold panning" means the attempted or actual removal of gold from a stream by using either a metal or plastic gold pan and a trowel, spoon or other digging implement having a blade surface not exceeding 4 inches wide and 8 inches long.

(2)(i) Unless otherwise designated by the superintendent, gold panning is allowed on all streams. Streams, or portions thereof, that are designated closed to gold panning are marked on a map available for public inspection at the office of the superintendent, or by the posting of signs, or both.

(ii) Prior to engaging in gold panning, a person shall register with, and pay a special recreation permit fee to, the superintendent. The superintendent shall establish the special recreation permit fee in accordance with regulations in part 71 of this chapter.

(iii) A person may remove gold from the Unit only in accordance with these regulations.

(3) The following are prohibited:

(i) Removing gold by any method other than gold panning, including, but not limited to, the use of suction, a crevice cleaner, screen separator, view box, sluice box, rocker, dredge or any other mechanical or hydraulic device, or skin diving equipment such as a snorkel, mask or wetsuit.

(ii) Using any toxic substance or chemical, including mercury, in gold panning activities.

(iii) Conducting gold panning outside the confines of existing stream water levels, or digging into a stream bank, or digging that results in the disturbance of the ground surface or the undermining of any vegetation, historic feature or bridge abutment.
