
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.96 National Capital Region.
##### George Washington Memorial Parkway; passenger-carrying vehicles; permits; fees.

(2)(i) Taxicabs licensed in the District of Columbia, Maryland, or Virginia, are allowed on any portion of the George Washington Memorial Parkway without a permit or payment of fees.

(ii) Passenger-carrying vehicles for hire or compensation, other than taxicabs, having a seating capacity of not more than fourteen (14) passengers, excluding the operator, when engaged in services authorized by concession agreement to be operated from the Washington National Airport and/or Dulles International Airport, are allowed on any portion of the George Washington Memorial Parkway in Virginia without a permit or payment of fees. However, when operating on a sightseeing basis an operator of such a vehicle shall comply with paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iii) Passenger-carrying vehicles for hire or compensation, other than those to which paragraphs (f)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section apply, are allowed on the George Washington Memorial Parkway upon issuance of a permit by the Regional Director, under the following conditions:

(A) When operating on a regular schedule: to provide passenger service on any portion between Mount Vernon and the Arlington Memorial Bridge, or to provide limited direct nonstop passenger service from Key Bridge to a terminus at the Central Intelligence Agency Building at Langley, Virginia, and direct return, or to provide limited direct nonstop passenger service from the interchange at Route 123 to a terminus at the Central Intelligence Agency Building at Langley, Virginia, and direct return. Permittees shall file a schedule of operation and all schedule changes with the Regional Director showing the number of such vehicles and total miles to be operated on the parkway.

(B) When operating nonscheduled direct, nonstop service primarily for the accommodation of air travelers arriving at or leaving from Dulles International Airport or Washington National Airport: between Dulles International Airport and a terminal in Washington, DC, over the George Washington Memorial Parkway between Virginia Route 123 and Key Bridge; or between Washington National Airport and a terminal in Washington, D.C., over the George Washington Memorial Parkway between Washington National Airport and 14th Street Bridge; or between Dulles International Airport and Washington National Airport over the George Washington Memorial Parkway between Virginia Route 123 and Washington National Airport. Permittees shall file a report of all operations and total miles operated on the George Washington Memorial Parkway with the Regional Director.

(C) Permits are issued to operators of vehicles described in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii) (A) and (B) normally for a period of one year, effective from July 1 until the following June 30, at the rate of one cent (1) per mile for each mile each such vehicle operates upon the parkway. Payment shall be made quarterly within twenty (20) days after the end of the quarter based upon a certification by the operator of the total mileage operated upon the parkway.

(iv) Sightseeing passenger-carrying vehicles for hire or compensation other than taxicabs may be permitted on the George Washington Memorial Parkway upon issuance of a permit by the Regional Director, to provide sightseeing service on any portion of the parkway. Permits may be issued either on an annual basis for a fee of three dollars ($3.00) for each passenger-carrying seat in such vehicle; on a quarterly basis for a fee of seventy-five cents (75) per seat; or on a daily basis at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per vehicle per day.
