
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.96 National Capital Region.
##### Demonstrations and special events,Definitions.

(g)-(1)(i) The term "demonstration" includes demonstrations, picketing, speechmaking, marching, holding vigils or religious services and all other like forms of conduct that involve the communication or expression of views or grievances, engaged in by one or more persons, the conduct of which is reasonably likely to draw a crowd or onlookers. This term does not include casual park use by visitors or tourists that is not reasonably likely to attract a crowd or onlookers.

(ii) The term "special events" includes sports events, pageants, celebrations, historical reenactments, regattas, entertainments, exhibitions, parades, fairs, festivals and similar events (including such events presented by the National Park Service), which are not demonstrations under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, and which are engaged in by one or more persons, the conduct of which has the effect, intent or propensity to draw a crowd or onlookers. This term also does not include casual park use by visitors or tourists which does not have an intent or propensity to attract a crowd or onlookers.

(iii) The term "national celebration events" means the annually recurring special events regularly scheduled by the National Capital Region, which are listed in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(iv) The term "White House area" means all park areas, including sidewalks adjacent thereto, within these bounds; on the south, Constitution Avenue NW.; on the north, H Street NW.; on the east, 15th Street, NW.; and on the west, 17th Street NW.

(v) The term "White House sidewalk" means the south sidewalk of Pennsylvania Avenue NW., between East and West Executive Avenues NW.

(vi) The term "Lafayette Park" means the park areas, including sidewalks adjacent thereto, within these bounds: on the south, Pennsylvania Avenue NW.; on the north, H Street NW.; on the east, Madison Place NW.; and on the west, Jackson Place NW.

(vii) The term "Ellipse" means the park areas, including sidewalks adjacent thereto, within these bounds: on the south, Constitution Avenue NW.; on the north, E Street, NW.; on the west, 17th Street NW.; and on the east, 15th Street NW.

(viii) The term "Regional Director" means the official in charge of the National Capital Region, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, or an authorized representative thereof.

(ix) The term "other park areas" includes all areas, including sidewalks adjacent thereto, other than the White House area, administered by the National Capital Region.

(x) The term "Vietnam Veterans Memorial" means the structures and adjacent areas extending to and bounded by the south curb of Constitution Avenue on the north, the east curb of Henry Bacon Drive on the west, the north side of the north Reflecting Pool walkway on the south and a line drawn perpendicular to Constitution Avenue two hundred (200) feet from the east tip of the memorial wall on the east (this is also a line extended from the east side of the western concrete border of the steps to the west of the center steps to the Federal Reserve Building extending to the Reflecting Pool walkway).
