
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.96 National Capital Region.
##### Permit applications.

(3)Permit applications may be obtained at the Division of Permits Management, National Mall and Memorial Parks, 900 Ohio Drive SW., Washington DC 20024. Applicants shall submit permit applications in writing on a form provided by the National Park Service so as to be received by the Regional Director at the Division of Permits Management at least 48 hours in advance of any proposed demonstration or special event. This 48-hour period will be waived by the Regional Director if the size and nature of the activity will not reasonably require the commitment of park resources or personnel in excess of that which are normally available or which can reasonably be made available within the necessary time period. The Regional Director shall accept permit applications only during the hours of 8 a.m.-4 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. All demonstration applications, except those seeking waiver of the numerical limitations applicable to Lafayette Park (paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section), are deemed granted, subject to all limitations and restrictions applicable to said park area, unless denied within 24 hours of receipt. However, where a permit has been granted, or is deemed to have been granted pursuant to this subsection, the Regional Director may revoke that permit pursuant to paragraph (g)(6) of this section.
