
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.96 National Capital Region.
##### 2

() A 150-foot-by-200-foot area on the National Mall just east of 7th Street, for the exclusive use of the Presidential Inaugural Committee for television and radio media broadcasts on Inaugural Day.

(D) The Presidential Inaugural Committee may also use portions of its designated areas reasonably necessary for setting up and taking down stands, bleachers, media and parade support structures as shown in the following table:

(E) Maps of designated portions of Pennsylvania Avenue, National Historic Park and Sherman Park referred to in paragraph (g)(4)(iii)(B) of this section are as follows:

(iv) Other demonstrations or special events are permitted in park areas under permit for the National Celebration Events listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section to the extent that they do not significantly interfere with the National Celebration Events. Except for Inaugural ceremony activities, no activity containing structures is permitted closer than 50 feet to another activity containing structures without the mutual consent of the sponsors of those activities.

(v) NPS will issue a permit for a demonstration on the White House sidewalk and in Lafayette Park at the same time only if the requirements of this paragraph are met. The organization, group, or other sponsor of the demonstration must undertake in good faith all reasonable action, including the provision of sufficient marshals, to ensure that the sponsor:

(A) Maintains good order and self-discipline in conducting the demonstration and any necessary movement of persons; and

(B) Observes the numerical limitations and waiver provisions described in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(vi) NPS will issue permits authorizing demonstrations or special events for the periods shown in the following table. NPS may extend these periods for demonstrations only, unless another application requests use of the particular area and that application precludes double occupancy.

(vii) A permit may be denied in writing by the Regional Director upon the following grounds:

(A) A fully executed prior application for the same time and place has been received, and a permit has been or will be granted authorizing activities which do not reasonably permit multiple occupancy of the particular area; in that event, an alternate site, if available for the activity, will be proposed by the Regional Director to the applicant.

(B) It reasonably appears that the proposed demonstration or special event will present a clear and present danger to the public safety, good order, or health.

(C) The proposed demonstration or special event is of such a nature or duration that it cannot reasonably be accommodated in the particular area applied for; in that event, the Regional Director shall propose an alternate site to the applicant, if available for the activity; in this connection, the Regional Director shall reasonably take into account possible damage to the park, including trees, shrubbery, other plantings, park installations and statues.

(D) The application proposes activities contrary to any of the provisions of this section or other applicable law or regulation.
