
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.96 National Capital Region.
##### Permit limitations.

(5)Issuance of a permit is subject to the following limitations:

(i) No more than 750 persons are permitted to conduct a demonstration on the White House sidewalk at any one time.

(ii) No more than 3,000 persons are permitted to conduct a demonstration in Lafayette Park at any one time.

(A) The Regional Director may waive the 3,000 person limitation for Lafayette Park and/or the 750 person limitation for the White House Sidewalk upon a showing by the applicant that good faith efforts will be made to plan and marshal the demonstration in such a fashion so as to render unlikely any substantial risk of unreasonable disruption or violence.

(B) In making a waiver determination, the Regional Director shall consider and the applicant shall furnish at least ten days in advance of the proposed demonstration, the functions the marshals will perform, the means by which they will be identified, and their method of communication with each other and the crowd. This requirement will be satisfied by completion and submission of the same form referred to in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(iii) No permit will be issued for a demonstration on the White House Sidewalk and in Lafayette Park at the same time except when the organization, group, or other sponsor of such demonstration undertakes in good faith all reasonable action, including the provision of sufficient marshals, to insure good order and self-discipline in conducting such demonstration and any necessary movement of persons, so that the numerical limitations and waiver provisions described in paragraphs (g)(5) (i) and (ii) of this section are observed.

(iv) The Regional Director may restrict demonstrations and special events weekdays (except holidays) between the hours of 7:00 to 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 to 6:30 p.m. if it reasonably appears necessary to avoid unreasonable interference with rush-hour traffic.

(v) Special events are not permitted unless approved by the Regional Director. In determining whether to approve a proposed special event, the Regional Director shall consider and base the determination upon the following criteria:

(A) Whether the objectives and purposes of the proposed special event relate to and are within the basic mission and responsibilities of the National Capital Region, National Park Service.

(B) Whether the park area requested is reasonably suited in terms of accessibility, size, and nature of the proposed special event.

(C) Whether the proposed special event can be permitted within a reasonable budgetary allocation of National Park Service funds considering the event's public appeal, and the anticipated participation of the general public therein.

(D) Whether the proposed event is duplicative of events previously offered in National Capital Region or elsewhere in or about Washington, DC.

(E) Whether the activities contemplated for the proposed special event are in conformity with all applicable laws and regulations.

(vi) In connection with permitted demonstrations or special events, temporary structures may be erected for the purpose of symbolizing a message or meeting logistical needs such as first aid facilities, lost children areas or the provision of shelter for electrical and other sensitive equipment or displays. Temporary structures may not be used outside designated camping areas for living accommodation activities such as sleeping, or making preparations to sleep (including the laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing personal belongings, or making any fire, or doing any digging or earth breaking or carrying on cooking activities. The above-listed activities constitute camping when it reasonably appears, in light of all the circumstances, that the participants, in conducting these activities, are in fact using the area as a living accommodation regardless of the intent of the participants or the nature of any other activities in which they may also be engaging. Temporary structures are permitted to the extent described above, provided prior notice has been given to the Regional Director, except that:

(A) Structures are not permitted on the White House sidewalk.

(B) All such temporary structures shall be erected in such a manner so as not to harm park resources unreasonably and shall be removed as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the permitted demonstration or special event.

(C) The Regional Director may impose reasonable restrictions upon the use of temporary structures in the interest of protecting the park areas involved, traffic and public safety considerations, and other legitimate park value concerns.

(D) Any structures utilized in a demonstration extending in duration beyond the time limitations specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(iv) (A) and (B) of this section shall be capable of being removed upon 24 hours notice and the site restored, or, the structure shall be secured in such a fashion so as not to interfere unreasonably with use of the park area by other permittees authorized under this section.

(E) Individuals or groups of 25 persons or fewer demonstrating under the small group permit exemption of paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section are not allowed to erect temporary structures other than small lecterns or speakers' platforms. This provision does not restrict the use of portable signs or banners.
