
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 7 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS, AREAS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
#### ยง 7.100 Appalachian National Scenic Trail.
##### Where can I operate my snowmobile?

(b)(1) You may cross the Appalachian National Scenic Trail corridor by using established, State-approved snowmobile trails in Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts and Connecticut that are allowed by deeded right-of-way reserved by the seller or by public road right-of-way. You may also cross National Park Service administered lands within the Appalachian National Scenic Trail corridor at the following locations:

(2) Nahmakanta Lake Spur-The spur snowmobile route that leads from Maine Bureau of Parks and Lands Debsconeag Pond Road to the southeastern shore of Nahmakanta Lake.

(3) Lake Hebron to Blanchard-Shirley Road Spur-The spur snowmobile route that leads from Lake Hebron near Monson, Maine to the Maine Interconnecting Trail System Route 85 near the Blanchard-Shirley Road.

(4) Massachusetts Turnpike to Lower Goose Pond Crossing-That part of the Massachusetts Interconnecting Trail System Route 95 from the Massachusetts Turnpike Appalachian Trail Bridge to the northeastern shore of Lower Goose Pond.

(5) Temporary crossings of National Park Service administered Appalachian Trail corridor lands may be designated by the Park Manager in the Superintendent's Compendium of Orders when designated snowmobile routes are temporarily dislocated by timber haul road closures.

(6) Maps that show the crossings of National Park Service administered lands within the Appalachian National Scenic Trail may be obtained from the Park Manager, Appalachian National Scenic Trail, Harpers Ferry Center, Harpers Ferry, West Virginia 25425.
