
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 9 - MINERALS MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart A - Mining and Mining Claims
##### § 9.4 Surface disturbance moratorium.

(a) For a period of four years after September 28, 1976, no operator of a claim located within the boundaries of Death Valley National Monument, Mount McKinley National Park, or Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument (see also claims subject to § 9.10(a)(3)) shall disturb for purposes of mineral exploration or development the surface of any lands which had not been significantly disturbed for purposes of mineral extraction prior to February 29, 1976, except as provided in this section. However, where a claim is subject, for a peroid of four years after September 28, 1976, to this section solely by virtue of § 9.10(a)(3), the date before which there must have been significant disturbance for purposes of mineral extraction is January 26, 1977.

(b) An operator of a claim in one of these units seeking to enlarge an existing excavation or otherwise disturb the surface for purposes of mineral exploration or development shall file with the Superintendent an application stating his need to disturb additional surface in order to maintain production at an annual rate not to exceed an average annual production level of said operations for the three calendar years 1973, 1974, and 1975. Accompanying the application shall be a plan of operations which complies with § 9.9 and verified copies of production records for the years 1973, 1974, and 1975.

(c) If the Regional Director finds that the submitted plan of operations complies with § 9.9, that enlargement of the existing excavation of an individual mining operation is necessary in order to make feasible continued production therefrom at an annual rate not to exceed the average annual production level of said operation for the three calendar years 1973, 1974, and 1975, and that the plan of operations meets the applicable standard of approval of § 9.10(a)(1), he shall issue a permit allowing the disturbance of the surface of the lands contiguous to the existing excavation to the minimum extent necessary to effect such enlargement. For the purpose of this section "lands contiguous to the existing excavation" shall include land which actually adjoins the existing excavation or which could logically become an extension of the excavation; for example, drilling to determine the extent and direction to which the existing excavation should be extended may be permitted at a site which does not actually adjoin the excavating.

(d) The appropriate reclamation standard to be applied will be determined by the nature of the claim. (See §§ 9.11(a)(1) and (a)(2).)

(e) Operations conducted under a permit pursuant to this section shall be subject to all the limitations imposed by this part.

(f) For the purposes of this section, each separate mining excavation shall be treated as an individual mining operation.
