
# Title 36 - Parks, Forests, and Public Property
## Chapter I - National Park Service, Department of the Interior
### PART 9 - MINERALS MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart A - Mining and Mining Claims
##### ยง 9.14 Appeals.

(a) Any operator aggrieved by a decision of the Regional Director in connection with the regulations in this part may file with the Regional Director a written statement setting forth in detail the respects in which the decision is contrary to, or in conflict with, the facts, the law, these regulations, or is otherwise in error. No such appeal will be considered unless it is filed with the Regional Director within thirty (30) days after the date of notification to the operator of the action or decision complained of. Upon receipt of such written statement from the aggrieved operator, the Regional Director shall promptly review the action or decision and either reverse his original decision or prepare his own statement, explaining that decision and the reasons therefor, and forward the statement and record on appeal to the Director, National Park Service, for review and decision. Copies of the Regional Director's statement shall be furnished to the aggrieved operator, who shall have 20 days within which to file exceptions to the Regional Director's decision. The Department has the discretion to initiate a hearing before the Office of Hearing and Appeals in a particular case. (See 43 CFR 4.700.)

(b) The official files of the National Park Service on the proposed plan of operations and any testimony and documents submitted by the parties on which the decision of the Regional Director was based shall constitute the record on appeal. The Regional Director shall maintain the record under separate cover and shall certify that it is the record on which his decision was based at the time it is forwarded to the Director of the National Park Service. The National Park Service shall make the record available to the operator upon request.

(c) If the Director considers the record inadequate to support the decision on appeal, he may provide for the production of such additional evidence or information as may be appropriate, or may remand the case to the Regional Director, with appropriate instructions for further action.
