
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart E - Instructional Support
###### ยง 36.43 Standard XVI - Student activities.

All schools shall provide and maintain a well-balanced student activities program based on assessment of both student and program needs. Each activity program shall help develop leadership abilities and provide opportunities for student participation but not be limited to activities that include special interest clubs, physical activities, student government, and cultural affairs. The activity program shall be an integral part of the overall educational program.

(a) All student activities shall be required to have qualified sponsors and be approved by the school supervisor, and the school board shall approve the overall activity plan. A qualified sponsor is a professional staff member of the school that is given responsibility to provide guidance or supervision for student activities.

(b) A plan of student activity operations shall be submitted, by each activity at the beginning of each school year, to the school supervisor. The plan will include the purpose, structure, coordination, and planned types of fund-raising activities.

(c) School may participate in interscholastic sports and activities on an informal or formal basis. On an informal basis, the Bureau-operated schools will coordinate with other schools in setting up a schedule of sports and games. Schools that participate in state-recognized leagues will abide by those state rules regulating inter-school competition.

(d) Until comparable competitive opportunities are provided to all students, regardless of sex, no student shall be barred from participation in interscholastic competition in noncontact sports except on the basis of individual merit.

(e) Residential schools shall plan and provide an intramural program for all students. The program shall include a variety of scholastic and sport activities.

(f) Students shall be involved only in activities which are sanctioned by the school.

(g) All student activities involved only in fund raising are required to establish a school/student activity bank account following school/student banking procedures outlined under 25 CFR 31.7. All student activity accounts shall be audited annually.

(h) The school shall provide for the safety and welfare of students participating in school-sponsored activities.

(i) Each sponsor of a student activity will be given orientation and training covering the responsibilities of a sponsor by the school supervisor.
