
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart F - Evaluation of Educational Standards
###### ยง 36.50 Standard XVII - School program evaluation and needs assessment.

Each school shall complete a formal, formative evaluation at least once every seven (7) years beginning no later than the second complete school year following the effective date of this part. Schools shall follow state and/or regional accreditation, or accreditation requirements equal to the state in which a school is located. Each school shall follow the prescribed evaluation cycle. The primary purpose of this evaluation will be to determine the effects and quality of school programs and to improve the operations and services of the school programs.

(a) Each school's evaluation design or model will provide objective and quantitative analysis of each area to be evaluated. The analysis shall include product and process evaluation methods. The areas to be reviewed will include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) School philosophy and objectives.

(2) Administrative and organizational requirements.

(3) Program planning and implementation.

(4) Curriculum development and instruction.

(5) Primary education.

(6) Program of studies for elementary, junior high/middle, and high schools.

(7) Grading requirements.

(8) Promotion requirements.

(9) High school graduation requirements.

(10) Library/media.

(11) Textbooks and other instructional materials.

(12) Counseling services.

(13) Medical and health services.

(14) Student activities.

(15) Transportation services.

(16) Staff certification and performance.

(17) Facilities (school plant).

(18) Parent and community concerns.

(19) School procedures and policies.

(20) School board operations.

(b) The Director, within six (6) months from the effective date of this part, shall distribute to each school, Agency or Area, as appropriate, a standardized needs assessment and evaluation instrument with guidelines for developing and applying a locally appropriate evaluation model for carrying out the requirements of this standard.
