
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 38 - EDUCATION PERSONNEL
##### ยง 38.7 Appointment of educators.
###### Local school employees.

(a)Local Bureau school employees shall be appointed only by the school supervisor. Before the local school employee is employed, the school board shall be consulted. An individual's appointment may be finalized only upon receipt of a formal written determination certified by the local school board under such uniform procedures as it may adopt. Written determination by the school board should be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of approving the proposed appointment. The local school board shall use the same written procedure to disapprove an appointment. The school supervisor may appeal to the ASE, or, where appropriate, to the AEPA, any determination by the local school board concerning an individual's appointment. A written statement of appeal describing the action and the reasons the supervisor believes such action should be overturned must be filed within 10 days of receipt of the action from the local school board. A copy of such statement shall be submitted to the school board and the board shall be afforded an opportunity to respond, not to exceed 10 calendar days, in writing, to the appeal. After reviewing such written appeal and response, the ASE or AEPA may, for cause, overturn the action of the local school board. The ASE or AEPA must transmit the determination of the appeal (in the form of a written opinion) to the board and to the supervisor identifying the reasons for overturning the action within 10 calender days. Failure to act within the 10 calendar day period shall have the effect of approving the local school board's determination.
