
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 38 - EDUCATION PERSONNEL
##### ยง 38.7 Appointment of educators.
###### School supervisors.

(b)School supervisors may be appointed only by the ASE, except the AEPA shall appoint school supervisors for off-reservation boarding schools and those few other schools supervised by the AEPA. The school board shall be consulted before the school supervisor is employed. The appointment may be finalized upon receipt of a formal written determination certified by the school board under any uniform procedures as it may adopt. Written determination by the school board shall be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of approving the proposed appointment. The school board shall use the same procedure to disapprove an appointment. Within 20 calendar days of receipt of any determination by the school board concerning an individual's appointment, the ASE or AEPA, as appropriate, may appeal to the Director by filing a written statement describing the determination and the reasons the supervisor believes the determination should be overturned. A copy of the statement shall be submitted to the local school board and the board shall be afforded an opportunity to respond, within 10 calendar days, in writing, to such an appeal. The Director may reverse the determination for cause set out in writing to the school board. Within 20 calendar days of the school board's response, the Director shall transmit the determination of the appeal (in the form of a written opinion) to the board and to the ASE or AEPA identifying the reasons for overturning the determination. Failure by the Director to act within the 20 calendar day period shall have the effect of approving the school board's determination.
