
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 38 - EDUCATION PERSONNEL
##### ยง 38.7 Appointment of educators.
###### Agency office education program employees.

(c)Appointments to Agency office education positions may be made only by the ASE. The Agency school board shall be consulted before the agency education employee is employed, and the appointment may be finalized upon receipt of a formal, written determination certified by the Agency school board under any uniform procedures as it may adopt. Written determination by the school board shall be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of approving the proposed appointment. The Agency school board shall use the same written procedure to disapprove an appointment. Within 20 calendar days of receipt of any determination by the school board concerning an individual's appointment, the ASE may appeal to the Director by filing a written statement describing the determination and the reasons the supervisor believes the determination should be overturned. A copy of the statement shall be submitted to the Agency school board and the board shall be afforded an opportunity to respond, within 10 calendar days, in writing, to such appeal. After reviewing the written appeal and response, the Director may, for cause, overturn the determination of the Agency school board. Within 20 days of the board's response, the Director shall transmit the determination of the appeal (in the form of a written opinion) to the board and to the ASE identifying the reasons for overturning the determination. Failure of the Director to act within the 20 calendar day period shall have the effect of approving the school's board's determination.
