
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 38 - EDUCATION PERSONNEL
##### ยง 38.7 Appointment of educators.
###### Short-term contracts.

(h)(1) There may be circumstances where immediate action is necessary and it is impossible to consult with the local school board. When this situation exists short-term contracts may be made by the school supervisor in accordance with the following:

(i) The length of the contract will not exceed 60 days, or the next regularly scheduled school board meeting, whichever comes first.

(ii) If the board meets and does not take action on the individual in question, the short-term contract may be extended for the duration of the school year.

(iii) It shall be the responsibility of the school supervisor to fully inform the local school board of all such short-term contracts. Failure to do so may be cited as reason to discharge the school supervisor if so requested by the board.

(2) The local school board may authorize the school supervisor to make an emergency short-term contract to classroom, dormitory and other positions directly related to the health and safety of students. When this situation exists, short-term contracts may be made in accordance with the following:

(i) If local and agency lists of qualified applicants are exhausted, short-term contracts may be made without regard to qualifications for the position;

(ii) The pay level will be based on the qualifications of the individual employed rather than the requirements of the position, if the qualifications of the individual are lower than required;

(iii) The short-term contract may not exceed the school term and may not be renewed or extended;

(iv) Every 60 days the school supervisor will determine if qualified individuals have been placed on the local or agency lists. If a qualified individual on the list accepts employment, the school supervisor must terminate the emergency appointment at the time the qualified individual is appointed.
