
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 38 - EDUCATION PERSONNEL
##### ยง 38.9 Discharge of educators.
###### Procedures for discharge for cause.

(d)The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM the procedural steps to be followed by school supervisors, ASE's, and AEPA's in discharge for cause cases. These procedures shall provide (among other things) for the following:

(1) The educator to be discharged shall receive a written notice of the proposal, specifying the causes or complaints upon which the proposal is based, not less than 30 calendar days before the discharge. However, this shall not prohibit the exclusion of the individual from the education facility in cases where exclusion is required for the safety of the students or the orderly operation of the facility.

(2) A reasonable time, but not less than 10 calendar days, will be allotted for the individual to make written and/or oral responses to the charge.

(3) An opportunity will be afforded the individual to review the material relied upon to support the charge.

(4) Official time, not to exceed eight hours, will be provided to the individual to prepare a response to the charge.

(5) The educator may elect to have a representative and shall furnish the identity of any representative to the ASE or AEPA. The ASE or AEPA may disallow, as an employee representative, any individual whose activities as a representative would cause a conflict of interest or position, or an employee whose release from his or her official position would give rise to unreasonable costs to the Government, or when priority work assignment precludes his or her release from official duties. The terms of any applicable collective bargaining agreement and 5 U.S.C. 7114(a)(5) shall govern representation of employees in an exclusive bargaining unit.

(6) The individual has a right to a final decision made by the appropriate level of supervision.

(7) The individual has a right to appeal the final decision and have the merits of the case reviewed by a Departmental official not previously involved in the case. This right includes entitlement to a hearing upon request under procedures in accordance with the requirements of due process under section 1131(e)(1)(B) of Pub. L. 95-561.
