
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart D - Criminal Offenses
###### ยง 11.451 Abuse of psychotoxic chemical solvents.

(a) It is unlawful to:

(1) Intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of any psychotoxic chemical solvent or possess, purchase, or attempt to possess or purchase any psychotoxic chemical solvent, for the purpose of causing intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or the dulling of the brain or nervous system; or

(2) Sell, give away, dispense, or distribute, or offer to sell, give away, dispense, or distribute, any psychotoxic chemical solvent knowing or believing that the purchaser or another person intends to use the solvent in violation of this section.

(b) This section does not apply to inhalation of anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.

(c) As used in this section, "psychotoxic chemical solvent" means any glue, gasoline, paint, hair spray, Lysol, or other substance containing one or more of the following chemical compounds:

(1) Acetone and acetate;

(2) Benzene;

(3) Butyl-alcohol;

(4) Methyl ethyl;

(6) Peptone;

(7) Pentachlorophenol;

(8) Petroleum ether; or

(9) Any other chemical substance the inhalation of whose fumes or vapors can cause intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or the dulling of the brain or nervous system.

(d) The statement listing the contents of a substance packaged in a container by the manufacturer or producer thereof is rebuttable proof of the contents of the substance without further expert testimony if it reasonably appears that the substance in the container is the same substance placed therein by the manufacturer or producer.

(e) Abuse of psychotoxic chemical solvents, as defined in this section, is punishable as a petty misdemeanor, and the court may order any person using psychotoxic chemical solvents as described in paragraph (a) of this section to be committed to a facility for treatment for up to 6 months.

(f) Psychotoxic chemical solvents kept or used in violation of this section are declared contraband. Upon proof of a violation, these solvents must be forfeited to the Federal government by order of the court, following public notice and an opportunity for any person claiming an interest in the solvents to be heard.
