
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart F - Domestic Relations
###### ยง 11.608 Final decree; disposition of property; maintenance; child support; custody.

(a) A decree of dissolution of marriage or of legal separation is final when entered, subject to the right of appeal.

(b) The Court of Indian Offenses shall have the power to impose judgment as follows in dissolution or separation proceedings:

(1) Apportion or assign between the parties the non-trust property and non-trust assets belonging to either or both and whenever acquired, and whether the title thereto is in the name of the husband or wife or both;

(2) Grant a maintenance order for either spouse in amounts and for periods of time the court deems just;

(3) Order either or both parents owing a duty of support to a child to pay an amount reasonable or necessary for his or her support, without regard to marital misconduct, after considering all relevant factors. In addition:

(i) When a support order is issued by a Court of Indian Offenses, the order may provide that a portion of an absent parent's wages be withheld to comply with the order on the earliest of the following dates: When an amount equal to one month's support becomes overdue; when the absent parent requests withholding; or at such time as the Court of Indian Offenses selects. The amount to be withheld may include an amount to be applied toward liquidation of any overdue support.

(ii) If the Court of Indian Offenses finds that an absent parent who has been ordered to pay child support is now residing within the jurisdiction of another Court of Indian Offenses, an Indian tribal court, or a state court, it shall petition such court for reciprocal enforcement and provide it with a copy of the support order.

(iii) If the Court of Indian Offenses receives a petition from another Court of Indian Offenses, an Indian tribal court or a state court, it shall take necessary steps to determine paternity, establish an order for child support, register a foreign child support order or enforce orders as requested in the petition.

(iv) The Court of Indian Offenses shall assist a state in the enforcement and collection of past-due support from Federal tax refunds of absent parents living within the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction.

(v) Any person or agency who has provided support or assistance to a child under 18 years of age shall be a proper person to bring an action under this section and to recover judgment in an amount equal to such past-paid support or assistance, including costs of bringing the action.

(4) Make child custody determinations in accordance with the best interest of the child.

(5) Restore the maiden name of the wife.
