
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 61 - PREPARATION OF ROLLS OF INDIANS
##### ยง 61.4 Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
###### Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians.

(e)(1) Pursuant to section 5 of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians Distribution of Judgment Funds Act of October 26, 1987, Pub. L. 100-139, a tribal membership roll is to be prepared comprised of all persons who are able to establish that they are of Cow Creek or other Indian ancestry indigenous to the United States based on any rolls or records acceptable to the Secretary and were not members of any other Federally recognized Indian tribe on July 30, 1987; and:

(i) Who are named on the tribal roll dated September 13, 1980, the so-called Interrogatory No. 14 roll;

(ii) Who are descendants of individuals named on the tribal roll dated September 13, 1980, the so-called Interrogatory No. 14 roll, and were born on or prior to October 26, 1987; or

(iii) Who are descendants of individuals who were considered to be members of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians for the purposes of the treaty entered between such Band and the United States on September 19, 1853.

(2) Application forms for enrollment must be filed with the Superintendent, Siletz Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 539, Siletz, Oregon 97380 by June 1, 1990. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for inclusion on the tribal membership roll for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.
