
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 61 - PREPARATION OF ROLLS OF INDIANS
##### ยง 61.4 Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
###### Coquille Tribe of Indians.

(j)(1) Pursuant to section 7 of the Coquille Restoration Act of June 28, 1989, Pub. L. 101-42, a tribal membership roll is to be prepared comprised of persons of Coquille Indian ancestry:

(i) Who were born on or before and living on June 28, 1989;

(ii) Who possess at least one-eighth () degree or more Indian blood;

(iii) Who are not enrolled members of another federally recognized tribe; and

(iv) Whose names were listed on the Coquille roll prepared pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1954 (68 Stat. 979; 25 U.S.C. 771), and approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960;

(v) Whose names were not listed on but who met the requirements to be listed on the Coquille roll prepared pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1954, and approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs on August 29, 1960; or

(vi) Who are lineal descendants of persons, living or dead, identified in paragraphs (j)(1)(iv) and (j)(1)(v) of this section.

(2) To establish eligibility for inclusion on the tribal membership roll, all persons must file an application form with the Superintendent, Siletz Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 539, Siletz, Oregon 97380 by January 10, 1991. Application forms filed after that date will be rejected for inclusion on the roll being prepared for failure to file on time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the qualifications for enrollment.

(3) For the purposes of establishing eligibility under paragraph (j) of this section, any available evidence establishing Coquille ancestry and the required degree of Indian blood shall be accepted. However, information shown on the Coquille roll prepared pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1954, shall be accepted as conclusive evidence of Coquille ancestry and blood degree information shown on the January 1, 1940, census roll of nonreservation Indians of the Grand Ronde-Siletz Agency shall be accepted as conclusive evidence in determining degree of Indian blood for applicants.

(4) For the purposes of establishing eligibility under paragraph (j) of this section, persons who may be enrolled members of another federally recognized tribe or tribes may submit a conditional relinquishment of membership document in the other tribe or tribes with their application forms. A conditional relinquishment of membership document in the other tribe or tribes with their application forms. A conditional relinquishment will be accepted by the Superintendent only if it is executed by the person himself or herself unless the person is legally incompetent, in which case the legal guardian and only the legal guardian may execute the conditional relinquishment document. In the case of minors, only the parent or legal guardian may execute a conditional relinquishment document.
