
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 61 - PREPARATION OF ROLLS OF INDIANS
##### ยง 61.4 Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
###### Mdewakanton and Wahpakoota Tribe of Sioux Indians.

(r)(1) All lineal descendants of the Mdewakanton and Wahpakoota Tribe of Sioux Indians who were born on or prior to and were living on October 25, 1972, whose names or the name of a lineal ancestor appears on any available records and rolls acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior and who are not members of the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe of South Dakota, the Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska, the Lower Sioux Indian Community at Morton, Minn., the Prairie Island Indian Community at Welch, Minn., or the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community of Minnesota shall be entitled to be enrolled under title I, section 101(b) of the act of October 25, 1972 (86 Stat. 1168), to share in the distribution of funds derived from a judgment awarded the Mississippi Sioux Indians.

(2) Applications for enrollment must have been filed with the Director, Aberdeen Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 820 South Main Street, Aberdeen, S. Dak. 57401, and must have been received no later than November 1, 1973. Applications received after that date will be denied for failure to file in time regardless of whether the applicant otherwise meets the requirements for enrollment.

(3) Each application for enrollment with any of the tribes named in paragraph (r)(1) of this section which may be rejected by the tribes shall be reviewed by the Director to determine whether the applicant meets the requirements for enrollment as a descendant of the Mdewakanton and Wahpakoota Tribe of Sioux Indians under paragraph (r)(1) of this section. Each rejection notice issued by the tribes shall contain a statement to the effect that the application is being given such review.
