
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 62 - ENROLLMENT APPEALS
##### ยง 62.5 An appeal.

(a) An appeal must be in writing and must be filed with the Bureau official designated in the notification of an adverse enrollment action, or in the absence of a designated official, with the Bureau official who issued the notification of an adverse enrollment action; or when the notification of an adverse action is made by a tribal committee with the Superintendent.

(b) An appeal may be on behalf of more than one person. However, the name of each appellant must be listed in the appeal.

(c) An appeal filed by mail or filed by personal delivery must be received in the office of the designated Bureau official or of the Bureau official who issued the notification of an adverse enrollment action by close of business within 30 days of the notification of an adverse enrollment action, except when the appeal is mailed from outside the United States, in which case the appeal must be received by the close of business within 60 days of the notification of an adverse enrollment action.

(d) The appellant or sponsor shall furnish the appellant's mailing address in the appeal. Thereafter, the appellant or sponsor shall promptly notify the Bureau official with whom the appeal was filed of any change of address, otherwise the address furnished in the appeal shall be the address of record.

(e) An appellant or sponsor may request additional time to submit supporting evidence. A period considered reasonable for such submissions may be granted by the Bureau official with whom the appeal is filed. However, no additional time will be granted for the filing of the appeal.

(f) In all cases where an appellant is represented by a sponsor, the sponsor shall be recognized as fully controlling the appeal on behalf of the appellant. Service of any document relating to the appeal shall be on the sponsor and shall be considered to be service on the appellant. Where an appellant is represented by more than one sponsor, service upon one of the sponsors shall be sufficient.
