
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 63 - INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION
##### Subpart B - Minimum Standards of Character and Suitability for Employment
###### ยง 63.21 Are there other factors that may disqualify an applicant, volunteer or employee from placement in a position which involves regular contact with or control over Indian children?

Yes.

(a) An applicant, volunteer, or employee may be disqualified from consideration or continuing employment if it is found that:

(1) The individual's misconduct or negligence interfered with or affected a current or prior employer's performance of duties and responsibilities.

(2) The individual's criminal or dishonest conduct affected the individual's performance or the performance of others.

(3) The individual made an intentional false statement, deception or fraud on an examination or in obtaining employment.

(4) The individual has refused to furnish testimony or cooperate with an investigation.

(5) The individual's alcohol or substance abuse is of a nature and duration that suggests the individual could not perform the duties of the position or would directly threaten the property or safety of others.

(6) The individual has illegally used narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances without evidence of substantial rehabilitation.

(7) The individual knowingly and willfully engaged in an act or activities designed to disrupt government programs.

(b) An individual must be disqualified for Federal employment if any statutory or regulatory provision would prevent his/her lawful employment.
