
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 63 - INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION
##### Subpart B - Minimum Standards of Character and Suitability for Employment
###### ยง 63.23 What rights does an applicant, volunteer or employee have during this process?

(a) The applicant, volunteer, or employee must be provided an opportunity to explain, deny, or refute unfavorable and incorrect information gathered in an investigation, before the adjudication is final. The applicant, volunteer, or employee should receive a written summary of all derogatory information and be informed of the process for explaining, denying, or refuting unfavorable information.

(b) Employers and adjudicating officials must not release the actual background investigative report to an applicant, volunteer, or employee. However, they may issue a written summary of the derogatory information.

(c) The applicant, volunteer, or employee who is the subject of a background investigation may obtain a copy of the reports from the originating (Federal, state, or other tribal) agency and challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information maintained by that agency.

(d) The results of an investigation cannot be used for any purpose other than to determine suitability for employment in a position that involves regular contact with or control over Indian children.

(e) Investigative reports contain information of a highly personal nature and should be maintained confidentially and secured in locked files. Investigative reports should be seen only by those officials who in performing their official duties need to know the information contained in the report.
