
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 63 - INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION
##### Subpart C - Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Program
###### ยง 63.34 How are Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds distributed?

(a) Funds will be distributed, subject to the availability of appropriations, and:

(1) In any fiscal year that the appropriation exceeds 50 percent of the level of funding authorized for this purpose by the Act, 49 percent must be distributed equally to all tribes and tribal organizations and 49 percent must be distributed on a per capita basis according to the population of children residing in the service area. Two percent of the annual appropriation will be set aside for distribution to tribes demonstrating special circumstances.

(2) In any fiscal year that the appropriation does not exceed 50 percent of the level of funding authorized for this purpose by the Act, funding must be distributed in equal amounts to all tribes. Two percent of the annual appropriation will be set aside for distribution to tribes demonstrating special circumstances.

(3) Special circumstances include but are not limited to a high incidence of child sexual abuse, a high incidence of violent crimes, a high incidence of violent crimes against women, or the existence of a significant victim population within the community.

(i) This 2 percent will be subject to discretionary distribution by the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, or his or her designee. Tribes may request these funds through their respective area offices. All requests must demonstrate a high incidence of child sexual abuse, a high incidence of violent crimes, a high incidence of violent crimes against women, or the existence of a significant victim population within the community.

(ii) Special circumstances funds will remain available through the third quarter of each fiscal year. In the fourth quarter, unallocated special circumstances funds will be redistributed as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except that there will be no additional set aside for special circumstances.

(b) Any tribe not wishing to receive Indian child protection and family violence prevention funds must inform its respective area office in writing within 90 days after receiving notice of the allocation from the area office. Each area office may reallocate unused Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds as provided in this section.

(c) Funds may be used as matching shares for other federally funded programs which contribute to and promote prevention of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence on Indian reservations, but may not be used to supplant funds available for the same general purposes.

(d) Any income resulting from the operation of Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs may be retained and used to promote prevention of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence on Indian reservations.
