
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 63 - INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION
##### Subpart C - Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Program
###### ยง 63.35 How may Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds be used?

Indian child protection and family violence prevention program funds may be used to:

(a) Establish child protective services programs.

(b) Establish family violence prevention and treatment programs.

(c) Develop and implement multidisciplinary child abuse investigation and prosecution programs.

(d) Provide immediate shelter and related assistance to victims of family violence and their dependents, including construction or renovation of facilities to establish family violence shelters.

(e) Purchase equipment to assist in the investigation of cases of child abuse and child neglect.

(f) Develop protocols and intergovernmental or interagency agreements among tribal, Federal, state law enforcement, courts of competent jurisdiction, and related agencies to ensure investigations of child abuse cases to minimize the trauma to the child victim, to define and specify each party's responsibilities, and to provide for the coordination of services to victims and their families.

(g) Develop child protection codes and regulations that provide for the care and protection of children and families on Indian reservations.

(h) Establish community education programs for tribal members and school children on issues of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.

(i) Establish training programs for child protective services, law enforcement, judicial, medical, education, and related services personnel in the investigation, prevention, protection, and treatment of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence.

(j) Establish other innovative and culturally relevant programs and projects that show promise of successfully preventing and treating family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.
