
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 63 - INDIAN CHILD PROTECTION AND FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION
##### Subpart C - Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Program
###### ยง 63.36 What are the special requirements for Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs?

(a) Each tribe must develop appropriate standards of service, including caseload standards and staffing requirements. The following caseload standards and staffing requirements are comparable to those recommended by the Child Welfare League of America, and are included to assist tribes in developing standards for Indian child protection and family violence prevention programs:

(1) Caseworkers providing services to abused and neglected children and their families have a caseload of 20 active ongoing cases and five active investigations per caseworker.

(2) Caseworkers providing services to strengthen and preserve families with children have a caseload of 20 families. If intensive family-centered crisis services are provided, a caseload of 10 families per caseworker is recommended.

(3) It is recommended that there be one supervisor for every six caseworkers.

(b) The negotiation and award of contracts, grants, or funding agreements under these regulations must include the following requirements:

(1) Performance of background investigations to ensure that only those individuals who meet the standards of character contained in ยง 63.12 are employed in positions which involve regular contact with or control over Indian children.

(2) Submission of an annual report to the contracting officer's representative which details program activities, number of children and families served, and the number of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence reports received.

(3) Assurance that the identity of any person making a report of child abuse or child neglect will not be disclosed without the consent of the individual and that all reports and records collected under these regulations are confidential and to be disclosed only as provided by Federal or tribal law.

(4) Assurance that persons who, in good faith, report child abuse or child neglect will not suffer retaliation from their employers.
