
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 67 - PREPARATION OF A ROLL OF INDEPENDENT SEMINOLE INDIANS OF FLORIDA
##### ยง 67.6 Application forms.

(a) Application forms to be filed by or for applicants for enrollment shall be furnished by the Area Director, Superintendent, or other designated persons upon written or oral request. Each person furnishing application forms shall keep a record of the names of individuals to whom forms are given, as well as the control numbers of the forms and the date furnished. Instructions for completing and filing application forms shall be furnished with each form. The form shall indicate prominently the deadline date for filing application forms.

(b) Among other information, each application form shall contain:

(1) Certification as to whether the application form is for a natural child or an adopted child of the parent through whom eligibility is claimed.

(2) If the application form is filed by a sponsor, the name and address of the sponsor and the sponsor's relationship to the applicant.

(3) A control number for the purpose of keeping a record of forms furnished to interested individuals.

(4) Certification that the information given on the application form is true to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person filing the application. Criminal penalties are provided by statute for knowingly filing false information in such applications (18 U.S.C. 1001).

(5) An election by the applicant as to whether the applicant, if determined to meet the qualifications for enrollment, wishes to share in the per capita payment.

(c) Sponsors may file application forms on behalf of other persons, but may not file elections to share in the per capita payment.

(1) The election to share in the per capita payment shall be made as follows:

(i) If the applicant is a competent adult, the election shall be made by the applicant.

(ii) If the applicant is not a competent adult, the election shall be made by the applicant's legal guardian.

(iii) If the applicant is a minor, the election shall be made by the applicant's parent or legal guardian.

(2) When an application is filed by a sponsor, the Superintendent shall:

(i) Furnish the sponsor a copy of the application for forwarding to the applicant or his/her guardian for completion of the election to share in the per capita payment; and

(ii) Make a reasonable effort to furnish a copy of the application directly to the applicant or his/her guardian for completion of the election to share in the per capita payment.

(d) Every applicant or sponsor shall furnish the applicant's mailing address on the application form. Thereafter, the applicant or sponsor shall promptly notify the Superintendent of any change in address, giving appropriate identification of the applicant. Otherwise, the mailing address as stated on the application form shall be accepted as the address of record for all purposes under the regulations in this part.
