
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 81 - SECRETARIAL ELECTION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - The Secretarial Election Process under the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA)
###### ยง 81.19 How does the Bureau proceed after receiving a request for a Secretarial election?

(a) Upon receiving a request for a Secretarial election, the Local Bureau Official will forward the request to the Authorizing Official with any appropriate background information.

(b) The Authorizing Official will issue a memorandum to the Local Bureau official. The memorandum will do all of the following:

(1) Direct the Local Bureau Official to call and conduct a Secretarial election by one of the following deadlines:

(i) If the tribal request is to amend an existing governing document, within 90 days from the date of receipt of the request;

(ii) If the tribal request is to adopt a new governing document (including an amendment to a governing document in the nature of an entire substitute) or to revoke an existing governing document, within 180 days after receiving the request.

(2) Include as an attachment the document or proposed language to be voted upon;

(3) Include as an attachment the Certificate of Results of Election with instructions to return it after the Secretarial election. The Certificate shall read as follows:

(4) Advise that no changes or modifications can be made to any attached document, without the Authorizing Official's prior approval.

(c) The Local Bureau Official will appoint a Bureau employee to serve as the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and notify the tribe of the need to appoint at least two tribal members, who are at least 18 years of age, to the Secretarial Election Board. If the election is to be held as the result of a petition, then the Local Bureau Official will appoint a Bureau employee to serve as the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board and notify the tribe and the spokesperson for the petitioners of the need to appoint one tribal member each, who is at least 18 years of age, to the Secretarial Election Board. If the tribe or spokesperson for the petitioners declines or fails for any reason to make the appointment(s) by close of business on the 10th day after the date the notice letter is issued, the Chair of the Secretarial Election Board must appoint the representative(s), who are tribal members, if available, on the 11th day after the notice letter is issued.
