
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 81 - SECRETARIAL ELECTION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - The Secretarial Election Process under the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA)
###### ยง 81.45 When are the results of the Secretarial election final?

The Authorizing Official will review election results and challenges, if any, as follows:

(a) If a challenge alleges errors that would invalidate the election, and the Authorizing Official sustains any such challenges, the Authorizing Official must authorize a recount or call for a new Secretarial election. The Authorizing Official will take the appropriate steps necessary to provide for a recount or a new Secretarial election.

(b) If all challenges are denied or dismissed, the Authorizing Official will review and make a decision based on the following:

(1) The percentage of total votes cast was at least 30 percent, or other percentages required according to the tribe's governing document's amendment or adoption articles.

(2) The voters rejected or accepted the proposed document or each proposed amendment; and

(3) The proposed documents or amendments are not contrary to Federal law.

(c) The Authorizing Official must notify, in writing, the recognized governing body of the tribe, and the Director of the Bureau, of the following:

(1) The decisions on challenges;

(2) The outcome of the voting;

(3) Whether the proposed governing document, proposed amendment(s) or charter or charter amendments are approved or ratified, or if the proposed documents contain language that is contrary to Federal law and, therefore, disapproved; and

(4) That the decision is a final agency action.

(d) The Authorizing Official must:

(1) Forward the original text of the document, Original Certificate of Approval or Disapproval, and the Certificate of Results of Election to the tribe and a copy of all documents to the Bureau Director; and

(2) Retain, as required by the Records Disposition Schedule, a copy of all document(s) relevant to the Secretarial election.

(e) If the certified election results show that the tribal members ratified the documents, but the Authorizing Official does not approve or disapprove the governing document or amendment by close of business on the 45th day after the date of the Secretarial election, the Secretary's approval of the documents must be considered as given.

(f) The Authorizing Official's decision to approve or disapprove the governing document or amendment is a final agency action.
