
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 89 - ATTORNEY CONTRACTS WITH INDIAN TRIBES
##### Payment of Tribal Attorney Fees With Appropriated Funds
###### ยง 89.41 Exceptions to policy.

The Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs upon concurrence of the Solicitor and receipt of a recommendation as provided by ยง 89.43 may, in his/her discretion, authorize the direct or indirect expenditure of appropriated funds to pay reasonable attorney's fees in order to permit an Indian tribe to secure private legal representation in the following circumstances:

(a) When a tribe determines it necessary to bring a court action or to defend itself to protect its trust resources, rights claimed under a treaty, agreement, executive order, or statute, or its governmental powers and the Attorney General refuses assistance or advises that assistance is not otherwise available (Comptroller General's Opinion B-114868, December 6, 1976).

(b) When a tribe determines it necessary to institute or to defend itself in an administrative proceeding to protect its trust resources, rights claimed under a treaty, agreement, executive order, or statute, or to protect its governmental powers and the Solicitor is unable to provide representation due to a conflict of interest or other reasons.

(c) When a tribe determines legal assistance necessary, other than for litigation, pursuant to a contract executed under Pub. L. 93-638 and the Solicitor has determined that the services of his office are not available.

(d) When a tribe determines it critical, and the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs finds the concerns of the tribe to have merit after consultation with and the advice of the Solicitor, to intervene, in a lawsuit being handled by the Justice Department or in an administrative proceeding being handled by the Solicitor because the responsible Government Attorney refuses either to exclude or to include some facet of the suit or proceedings which the tribe claims renders such legal representation completely inadequate to protect or in contravention of the rights and interests of the tribe. Prior to consulting with and advising the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, in a lawsuit being handled by the Justice Department, the Solicitor shall seek the comments and advice of the Attorney General.

(e) When a tribe determines, and the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, after consultation with the Solicitor concurs, that a substantial possibility of a negotiated settlement or agreement exists.

(f) Payment of fees will not be allowed if such payment was not authorized before services were performed.

(g) This rule applies to expenditure of appropriated Federal funds and not a tribe's own funds on deposit in the U.S. Treasury.
