
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 91 - GOVERNMENT OF INDIAN VILLAGES, OSAGE RESERVATION, OKLAHOMA
##### ยง 91.6 Custody of public buildings and tracts reserved from selection by individuals; village committees.
###### Provided,,Provided, further,

Each of the three (3) villages described herein shall organize a village committee to provide for the health, safety and welfare of its inhabitants, for the maintenance of tribal property, and to serve as custodian and manager of tribal property and improvements located within said village except that tract described in ยง 91.5(b)(3). Each village committee shall be composed of five (5) members, domiciled in the village, one of whom shall be designated by the committee as chairman. The committees shall be elected biennially by the residents of the villages, except in the Grayhorse Indian Village where the committee shall be appointed by the Council from among those tribal members residing in or historically associated with the village. The procedure for initial committee elections shall be established by the Council. Each village committee shall prepare a constitution and by-laws to be approved by the Council and the Superintendent before said committee will have any authority to govern, and any changes or amendments thereto must likewise be approved by the Council and the Superintendent. All actions of the committee are subject to appeal to the Council whose decision shall be final:That such committee shall have no control or authority to grant permission for the use of tribal property described in ยง 91.5 for the holding of dances. Such authority shall remain in the Council and any group or individual using the property for dance purposes without the written permission of the Council shall be in violation of these regulations:That the village committee shall not permit the use of any of the tracts described in ยง 91.5 in any manner that would conflict with Council authorization for dance purposes.
