
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Tribal Government
#### PART 91 - GOVERNMENT OF INDIAN VILLAGES, OSAGE RESERVATION, OKLAHOMA
##### ยง 91.8 Sale or mortgage of improvements.

No improvements located within the village reserves described in ยง 91.3 shall be sold, mortgaged, transferred or assigned without the approval of the Superintendent.

(a) Improvements may be mortgaged for home improvements or the erection of new improvements. Such mortgages shall be made with acceptable lending agencies and shall be approved by the Superintendent. The lending agency shall have the right:

(1) To foreclose the mortgage and to sell the improvements within six (6) months of the date of foreclosure judgment to any eligible tribal member with the understanding that the use of the land on which the improvements are situated shall be transferable to the new owner; or

(2) To foreclose the mortgage and to sell the improvements to a non-tribal member, who shall remove the improvements from the village reserve within six (6) months of the date of sale. In the event of removal of the mortgaged property, it shall be the responsibility of the lending agency to level the land on which such improvements were located and to remove all debris, sidewalks, etc., leaving the premises in an orderly condition. Failure to make such disposition within the time stated in this paragraph shall result in forfeiture of the improvements to the village committee.

(b) Improvements may be sold by the owner thereof with the approval of the Superintendent. Sale of such improvements shall be accomplished by bill of sale executed by the owner in triplicate who shall file all copies with the Superintendent. If the purchaser of such improvements is a member of the Osage Tribe, the bill of sale shall be accompanied by a relinquishment of the permit in favor of the vendee for the occupancy of the land on which such improvements are located. If the purchaser is not a member of the Osage Tribe, such purchaser shall be required to endorse an agreement on the reverse of all copies of the bill of sale that he will:

(1) Remove the improvements from the village reserve within six (6) months of date of approval of the bill of sale;

(2) Transfer the title thereof as provided in this section to a tribal member who is eligible; or

(3) Failing to make such disposition within the time stated forfeit title to the village committee.

(c) Upon approval of the bill of sale by the Superintendent, the original or certified copy shall be filed in the Branch of Realty, Osage Agency, the duplicate copy mailed to the purchaser, and the triplicate copy mailed to the seller.
