
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart I - Children's Court
###### § 11.906 Rights of parties.

(a) In all hearings and proceedings under §§ 11.900-11.1114 of this part the following rights will be observed unless modified by the particular section describing a hearing or proceeding:

(1) Notice of the hearing or proceeding shall be given the minor, his or her parents, guardian or custodian and their counsel. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail. The notice shall contain:

(i) The name of the court;

(ii) The title of the proceeding; and

(iii) The date, time and place of the proceeding.

(b) The children's court magistrate shall inform the minor and his or her parents, guardian or custodian of their right to retain counsel, and, in juvenile delinquency proceedings, shall tell them: "You have a right to have a lawyer or other person represent you at this proceeding. If you cannot afford to hire counsel, the court will appoint counsel for you."

(c) If the children's court magistrate believes there is a potential conflict of interest between the minor and his or her parents, guardian, or custodian with respect to legal representation, the court shall appoint another person to act as counsel for the minor.

(d) The minor need not be a witness against, nor otherwise incriminate, himself or herself.

(e) The children's court shall give the minor, and the minor's parent, guardian or custodian the opportunity to introduce evidence, to be heard on their own behalf and to examine witnesses.
