
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart I - Children's Court
###### ยง 11.907 Transfer to Court of Indian Offenses.

(a) The presenting officer or the minor may file a petition requesting the children's court to transfer the minor to the Court of Indian Offenses if the minor is 14 years of age or older and is alleged to have committed an act that would have been considered a crime if committed by an adult.

(b) The children's court shall conduct a hearing to determine whether jurisdiction of the minor should be transferred to the Court of Indian Offenses.

(1) The transfer hearing shall be held no more than 30 days after the petition is filed.

(2) Written notice of the transfer hearing shall be given to the minor and the minor's parents, guardian or custodian at least 72 hours prior to the hearing.

(c) All the rights listed in ยง 11.906 shall be afforded the parties at the transfer hearing.

(d) The following factors shall be considered when determining whether to transfer jurisdiction of the minor to the Court of Indian Offenses:

(1) The nature and seriousness of the offense with which the minor is charged.

(2) The nature and condition of the minor, as evidenced by his or her age; mental and physical condition; past record of offenses; and responses to past children's court efforts at rehabilitation.

(e) The children's court may transfer jurisdiction of the minor to the Court of Indian Offenses if the children's court finds clear and convincing evidence that both of the following circumstances exist:

(1) There are no reasonable prospects for rehabilitating the minor through resources available to the children's court; and

(2) The offense allegedly committed by the minor evidences a pattern of conduct which constitutes a substantial danger to the public.

(f) When a minor is transferred to the Court of Indian Offenses, the children's court shall issue a written transfer order containing reasons for its order. The transfer order constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
