
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 101 - LOANS TO INDIANS FROM THE REVOLVING LOAN FUND
##### ยง 101.3 Eligible borrowers under United States direct loan program.

(a) Loans may be made from the revolving loan fund to Indians, eligible tribes and relending organizations, and corporations, cooperative associations and partnerships having a form of organization satisfactory to the Commissioner. Loans may be made to applicants only when, in the judgment of the Commissioner, there is a reasonable prospect of repayment. Loans may be made only to an applicant who, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is unable to obtain financing on reasonable terms and conditions from other sources such as tribal relending programs, banks, Farmers Home Administration, Small Business Administration, Production Credit Associations, or Federal Land Banks, and is also unable to obtain a guaranteed or insured loan pursuant to title II of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77). In addition, the applicant will be required to have equity equal to 20 percent of the total cost of a new enterprise, or 20 percent of the total cost of expansion of an existing enterprise.

(b) The establishment of a United States direct revolving loan program on a reservation(s) for making direct loans will require the approval of the Commissioner. All requests for establishing a United States direct revolving loan program on a reservation will be accompanied by reasons for need, estimate of financing needs, and other sources of financing available to meet the needs. The Commissioner, in approving a United States direct loan program, may require the preparation and approval of a plan of operation for conducting the program.

(c) If local lending conditions and/or the information in an application for a loan indicate a probability that an applicant may be able to obtain the loan from other sources, the Commissioner, before approving a United States direct loan, will require the applicant to furnish letters from two customary lenders in the area who are making loans for similar purposes, stating whether or not they are willing to make a loan to the applicant for the same purposes and amount. If a customary lender will make the loan on reasonable terms and conditions, the Commissioner will not approve a United States direct loan.
