
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 101 - LOANS TO INDIANS FROM THE REVOLVING LOAN FUND
##### ยง 101.11 Interest.

(a) The interest to be charged on loans by the United States shall be at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with section 104, title I, of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-262, 88 Stat. 77). The interest rate shall be determined monthly and shall be effective on advances made on loans during the current calendar month. The interest rate shall be stated in the promissory note(s) executed by the borrower(s) evidencing the advance(s).

(b) Additional charges to cover loan administration costs, including credit reports, may be charged to borrowers.

(c) Education loans may provide for deferral of interest while the borrower is in school full time or in the military service.

(d) The interest rate on loans made by relending organizations which are conducting relending programs shall not be less than the rate the organization pays on its loan(s) from the United States. Relending organizations which adopt and follow the same procedure in calculating interest on educational loans as is followed on educational loans made by the United States, will not be charged interest on loans from the United States on the amount outstanding on educational loans during the period the organization is not charging its borrowers interest.

(e) Interest rates on loan advances made by the United States as shown on promissory notes dated before April 12, 1974, will remain in effect until the loan is paid in full, refinanced, or modified to extend the repayment terms. Unless otherwise specifically provided in a loan contract, the interest rate on advances made after April 12, 1974, will be at a rate determined pursuant to section 104 of title I of the Indian Financing Act of 1974. The interest rate on loans for expert assistance will be at a rate established in ยง 101.25 herein.
