
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 101 - LOANS TO INDIANS FROM THE REVOLVING LOAN FUND
##### ยง 101.18 Uncollectible loans made by relending organizations.

(a) Relending organizations conducting relending programs using revolving loan funds may, when approved by the Commissioner, chargeoff as uncollectible all or part of the balance of principal and interest owing on loans which are considered to be uncollectible. Usually a chargeoff includes both principal and interest and provides for cessation of interest accruals on the principal balance owing as of the date of the chargeoff.

(b) Action to chargeoff a loan will be in the form of a resolution enacted by the committee or body authorized and responsible for actions on loan matters for the relending organization. Before action is taken to chargeoff a loan as uncollectible, the lender will make an effort, to the extent feasible, to liquidate the security given for a loan and apply the net proceeds as a repayment on the balance of principal and interest owed. The chargeoff of a loan by a relending organization as uncollectible will not reduce the principal balance owed to the United States. A chargeoff will not release the borrower of the obligation or the responsibility to make payments when his or her financial situation will permit. Chargeoff action will not release the lender of responsibility to continue its efforts to collect the loan.
