
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 101 - LOANS TO INDIANS FROM THE REVOLVING LOAN FUND
##### ยง 101.20 Relending by borrower.

(a) A relending organization may reloan funds loaned to it by the United States with the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner may authorize such lenders to approve applications for particular types of loans up to a specified amount.

(b) Loans shall be secured by such securities as the lender and the Commissioner may require. With the Commissioner's approval, mortgages of individually held trust or restricted land, leasehold interests, chattels, crops grown on trust or restricted land, and assignments of trust income may all be taken as security for loans.

(c) Title to personal property purchased with loans received from relending organizations using revolving loan funds in its relending program shall be taken in the name of the borrower.

(d) The term of a loan made by a relending organization conducting a relending program shall not extend beyond the maturity date of its loan from the United States, unless an exception is approved by the Commissioner and the organization has funds available from which to make scheduled repayment on its loan from the United States. Loans made will be scheduled for repayment at the earliest possible date consistent with the purpose for which a loan is made and the indicated repayment capacity of the borrower.

(e) Securing documents or financing statements shall be filed or recorded in accordance with federal or state law except those customarily filed in Bureau of Indian Affairs offices. Mortgages on documented vessels will be filed at the custom house designated as the home port of the vessel as shown on the marine document.
