
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 103 - LOAN GUARANTY, INSURANCE, AND INTEREST SUBSIDY
##### Subpart E - Loan Transfers
###### ยง 103.28 What if the lender transfers part of the loan to another person?

(a) A lender may transfer one or more interests in a guaranteed loan to another person or persons, as long as the parties have in place an agreement that designates one person to perform all of the duties required of the lender under the Program and the loan guaranty certificate. Starting on the date of the transfer, only the person designated to perform the duties of the lender will be entitled to exercise the rights conferred by BIA's loan guaranty certificate, and will from that point forward be considered the lender for purposes of the Program. A lender under the Program must both service the guaranteed loan and own at least a 10 percent interest in the guaranteed loan. BIA will not consider more than one person at any given time to be the lender with respect to any loan guaranty certificate. If the person designated to perform the duties of the lender in an agreement among loan participants is not the original lender, then the provisions of ยง 103.29(a) will apply (relating to sale or assignment of guaranteed loans), and the person designated to perform the duties of the lender must give BIA notice of its interest in the loan. Failure to provide notice in accordance with ยง 103.29(a) will void BIA's loan guaranty certificate, without further action.

(b) Transferring any interest in an insured loan to another person will void the insurance coverage for that loan, except where the transfer is effected by a merger.
