
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 103 - LOAN GUARANTY, INSURANCE, AND INTEREST SUBSIDY
##### Subpart F - Loan Servicing Requirements
###### § 103.33 Are there reporting requirements?

(a) The lender must periodically report the borrower's loan payment history so that BIA can recalculate the government's contingent liability. Loan payment history reports must be quarterly unless BIA provides otherwise for a particular loan. These reports can be in any format the lender desires, as long as they contain:

(1) The lender's name;

(2) The borrower's name;

(3) A reference to BIA's Loan Guaranty Certificate or Loan Insurance Agreement number;

(4) The lender's internal loan number; and

(5) The date and amount of all loan balance activity for the reporting period.

(b) If applicable, the lender must supply a calculation of any interest subsidy payments that are due, as indicated in § 103.23.

(c) If there is a transfer of any or all of the lender's ownership interest in the loan, the party receiving the ownership interest may be required to notify BIA, as indicated in §§ 103.28 and 103.29.

(d) If there is a default on the loan, the lender must notify BIA, as indicated in §§ 103.35 and 103.36.

(e) If the borrower ceases to qualify for a BIA-guaranteed or insured loan under § 103.25(b), the lender must promptly notify BIA even if the lender does not pursue default remedies under §§ 103.35 and 103.36. This notice allows BIA to eliminate the guaranty or insurance coverage from its active recordkeeping system.

(f) If the loan is prepaid in full, the lender must promptly notify BIA in writing so that BIA can eliminate the guaranty or insurance coverage from its active recordkeeping system.

(g) If a lender changes its name, it should notify BIA in accordance with § 103.11(c).
