
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 103 - LOAN GUARANTY, INSURANCE, AND INTEREST SUBSIDY
##### Subpart F - Loan Servicing Requirements
###### § 103.34 What if the lender and borrower decide to change the terms of the loan?

(a) The lender must obtain written BIA approval before modifying a loan guaranteed or insured under the Program, if the change will:

(1) Increase the borrower's outstanding principal amount (if a term loan), or maximum available credit (if a revolving loan).

(i) BIA will approve or disapprove a loan increase based upon the lender's explanation of the borrower's need for additional funding, and updated information of the sort required under §§ 103.12, 103.13, and 103.26, as applicable.

(ii) Upon approval by BIA and payment of an additional guaranty or insurance premium in accordance with §§ 103.8 and 103.19 and this section, the entire outstanding loan amount, as modified, will be guaranteed or insured (as the case may be) to the extent BIA specifies. The lender must pay the additional premium only on the increase in the outstanding principal amount of the loan (if a term loan) or the increase in the credit limit available to the borrower (if a revolving loan).

(iii) Lenders may not increase the outstanding principal amount of a loan guaranteed or insured under the Program if a significant purpose of doing so would be to allow the borrower to pay accrued loan interest it otherwise would have difficulty paying.

(2) Permanently adjust the loan repayment schedule.

(3) Increase a fixed interest rate, convert a fixed interest rate to an adjustable interest rate, or convert an adjustable interest rate to a fixed interest rate.

(4) Allow any changes in the identity or organizational structure of the borrower.

(5) Allow any material change in the use of loan proceeds or the nature of the borrower's business.

(6) Release any collateral taken as security for the loan, except items sold in the ordinary course of business and promptly replaced by similar items of collateral, such as inventory.

(7) Allow the borrower to move any significant portion of its business operations to a location that is not on or near an Indian reservation or tribal service area recognized by BIA.

(8) Be likely to materially increase the risk of a claim on BIA's guaranty or insurance coverage, or materially reduce the aggregate value of the collateral securing the loan.

(9) Cure a default for which BIA is to receive notice under § 103.35(b).

(b) In the case of an insured loan, the amount of which will not exceed $100,000 when combined with all other insured loans from the lender to the borrower, the lender need not obtain BIA's prior approval to make any of the loan modifications indicated in § 103.34(a), except as provided in § 103.21(b). However, all loan modifications must remain consistent with the lender's loan insurance agreement with BIA, and in the event of an increase in the borrower's outstanding principal amount (if a term loan), or maximum available credit (if a revolving loan), the lender must send BIA an additional premium payment in accordance with §§ 103.8, 103.19 and this section. The lender must pay the additional premium only on the increase in the outstanding principal amount of the loan (if a term loan) or the increase in the credit limit available to the borrower (if a revolving loan). To the extent a loan modification changes any of the information supplied to BIA under § 103.18(b)(3), the lender also must promptly notify BIA of the new information.

(c) Subject to any applicable BIA loan guaranty or insurance coverage conditions, a lender may extend additional loans to a borrower without BIA approval, if the additional loans are not to be guaranteed or insured under the Program.
