
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Procedures and Practice
#### PART 2 - APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS
##### ยง 2.12 Service of appeal documents.

(a) Persons filing documents in an appeal must serve copies of those documents on all other interested parties known to the person making the filing. A person serving a document either by mail or personal delivery must, at the time of filing the document, also file a written statement certifying service on each interested party, showing the document involved, the name and address of the party served, and the date of service.

(b) If an appeal is filed with the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, a copy of the notice of appeal shall also be sent to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs. The notice of appeal sent to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals shall certify that a copy has been sent to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs.

(c) If the appellant is an Indian or Indian tribe not represented by counsel, the official with whom the appeal is filed (i.e., official making the decision being appealed) shall, in the manner prescribed in this section, personally or by mail serve a copy of all appeal documents on the official who will decide the appeal and on each interested party known to the official making such service.

(d) Service of any document under this part shall be by personal delivery or by mail to the record address as specified in ยง 2.14. Service on a tribe shall be to the principal or designated tribal official or to the governing body.

(e) In all cases where a party is represented by an attorney in an appeal, service of any document on the attorney is service on the party represented. Where a party is represented by more than one attorney, service on any one attorney is sufficient. The certificate of service on an attorney shall include the name of the party whom the attorney represents and indicate that service was made on the attorney representing that party.

(f) When an official deciding an appeal determines that there has not been service of a document affecting a person's interest, the official shall either serve the document on the person or direct the appropriate legal counsel to serve the document on the person and allow the person an opportunity to respond.
