
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart J - Juvenile Offender Procedure
###### § 11.1010 Adjudicatory hearing.

(a) The children's court shall conduct the adjudicatory hearing for the sole purpose of determining the guilt or innocence of the minor. The hearing shall be private and closed.

(b) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties at the adjudicatory hearing. The notice requirements of § 11.906(a) are met by a summons issued pursuant to § 11.1009.

(c) If the minor admits the allegations of the petition, the children's court shall proceed to the dispositional stage only if the children's court finds that:

(1) The minor fully understands his or her rights as set forth in § 11.906 of this part and fully understands the potential consequences of admitting the allegations;

(2) The minor voluntarily, intelligently and knowingly admits to all facts necessary to constitute a basis for children's court action; and

(3) The minor has not, in the purported admission to the allegations, set forth facts which, if found to be true, constitute a defense to the allegations.

(d) The children's court shall hear testimony concerning the circumstances which gave rise to the complaint.

(e) If the allegations of the petition are sustained by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the children's court shall find the minor to be a juvenile offender and proceed to the dispositional hearing.

(f) A finding that a minor is a juvenile offender constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
