
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart K - Minor-in-Need-of-Care Procedure
###### ยง 11.1113 Modification of dispositional order.

(a) A dispositional order of the children's court may be modified upon a showing of a change of circumstances.

(b) The children's court may modify a dispositional order at any time upon motion of the minor or the minor's parents, guardian or custodian.

(c) If the modification involves a change of custody, the children's court shall conduct a hearing pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section to review the dispositional order.

(d) A hearing to review a dispositional order shall be conducted as follows:

(1) All the rights listed in ยง 11.906 of this part shall be afforded the parties in the review of the disposition hearing except the right to free court-appointed counsel. Notice of the hearing shall be given the parties at least 48 hours before the hearing.

(2) The children's court shall review the performance of the minor, the minor's parents, guardian or custodian, and other persons providing assistance to the minor and the minor's family.

(3) In determining modification of disposition, the procedures prescribed in ยง 11.1111 of this part shall apply.

(4) If the request for review of disposition is based upon an alleged violation of a court order, the children's court shall not modify its dispositional order unless it finds clear and convincing evidence of the violation.
