
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 141 - BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS
##### Subpart B - Licensing Requirements and Procedures
###### ยง 141.7 Bond requirement for a reservation business.

(a) An applicant for a license or renewal of a license to operate a reservation business shall at the time the application is submitted furnish a bond on a form provided by the Commissioner in the name of the applicant in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or such larger sum as the Commissioner may designate, with two (2) on more sureties approved by the Commissioner or with a guaranty company qualified under the Act of August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279; 6 U.S.C. 6-13). The bond shall be for the same period covered by the license. No licensee may trade without a bond. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no surety may be released from liability until the license expires.

(b) The bond shall be in favor of the United States for the benefit of the United States and any customer of the licensee who recovers a judgment for damages resulting from violation of any law or regulation affecting or relating to reservation businesses. Any customer who recovers such a judgment may bring suit on the bond in his or her own name. The bond shall be conditioned on payment by the licensee of all judgments for damages resulting from violations of the regulations of this part.

(c) Any surety for a reservation business on the Hopi or Zuni Reservation shall agree in writing to submit itself voluntarily to the jurisdiction of the tribal court for the purpose of adjudicating any claim arising under the bond.

(d) Any surety on the bond of a licensed reservation business may be relieved from liabilities by complying with the provisions of ยง 141.57 of this title.
