
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 141 - BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS
##### Subpart B - Licensing Requirements and Procedures
###### ยง 141.10 License fees for reservation businesses.

(a) Prior to the issuance of an initial license, each licensee who is not a member of the Navajo tribe shall pay the following amount:

(1) If the license is issued before July 1, the licensee shall pay fifty dollars ($50).

(2) If the license is issued on or after July 1, the licensee shall pay twenty-five dollars ($25).

(b) Each licensed business owner who is not a member of the Navajo tribe shall pay on or before January 10 of each year an annual license fee determined as follows based on the licensee's most recent annual report:

(1) If the licensee's gross receipts are less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for the year or the licensee has not yet been required to file its first annual report, the license fee is fifty dollars ($50).

(2) If the licensee's gross receipts for the year are at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) but not more than four hundred and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars ($499,999) the fee is one hundred dollars ($100).

(3) If the licensee's gross receipts for the year are at least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) but not more than seven hundred and forty-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars ($749,999), the fee is two hundred dollars ($200).

(4) If the licensee's gross receipts for the year are seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) or more, the fee is three hundred dollars ($300).

(c) The Navajo Area Director shall determine the annual license fee payable by licensees who are enrolled members of the Navajo Tribe. The license fee for an enrolled member of the Navajo Tribe may not be less than twenty percent (20%) nor greater than one hundred percent (100 percent) of the amount the licensee would be required to pay if the licensee were not a tribal member.

(d) All fees are payable to the Area Director and shall be deposited to the credit of the account "Special Deposits."
