
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 141 - BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS
##### Subpart C - General Business Practices
###### ยง 141.17 Health and sanitation requirements.

(a) Each licensee shall keep both the premises and the place of business in a clean and sanitary condition at all times and shall avoid exposure of foodstuffs to contamination. No licensee may offer for sale any goods that are banned for health or sanitation reasons from retail sale by any Federal agency or by the tribe or, where not in conflict with the tribal regulations, by the State or by any State agency. No licensee may knowingly offer for sale any food that is contaminated.

(b) All weights and measure shall conform to standards set by the National Bureau of Standards and to standards, if any, set by the tribe and, if not in conflict with tribal regulations, to the standards set by the State.

(c) If training in foodhandling is available from the Indian Health Service, each person working in a reservation business shall complete the foodhandler training offered by the Indian Health Service before handling any food sold by a reservation business.

(d) Any person whom the Service Unit Director of the Indian Health Service determines is infected with or is a carrier of any communicable disease in a stage likely to be communicable to persons exposed as a result of the infected employee's normal duties as a foodhandler may not be employed by a reservation business.

(e) Each business shall comply with all Federal health regulations and with all tribal health regulations that are consistent with Federal regulations. Each business shall comply with State health regulations that are consistent with tribal and Federal health regulations.

(f) Except as otherwise provided herein, nothing in this section may be construed as a grant of enforcement powers to any agency of a State or its subdivisions.

(g) It is the duty of the health officers of the Indian Health Service to make periodic inspections, recommend improvements, and report thereon to the Commissioner.
