
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart L - Child Protection and Domestic Violence Procedures
###### ยง 11.1204 Obtaining an emergency order of protection.

(a) When a victim files a petition for an order of protection under ยง 11.202(a), the court may immediately grant an ex parte emergency order of protection if the petition clearly shows that an act of domestic violence has occurred. The order must meet the content requirements of ยง 11.206 (a) and (b).

(b) If the court does not immediately grant an emergency order of protection under paragraph (a) of this section, the court must either:

(1) Within 72 hours after the victim files a petition, serve notice to appear upon both parties and hold a hearing on the petition for order of protection; or

(2) If a notice of hearing cannot be served within 72 hours, issue an emergency order of protection.

(c) If the court issues an ex parte emergency order of protection under paragraph (a) of this section, it must within 10 days hold a hearing on the question of continuing the order. If notice of hearing cannot be served within 10 days:

(1) The emergency order of protection is automatically extended for 10 days; and

(2) If after the 10-day extension, notice to appear cannot be served, the emergency order of protection expires.

(d) If the court issues an ex parte emergency order of protection under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it must cause the order to be served on the person alleged to have committed a family violence act and seek to hold a hearing as soon as possible. If a hearing cannot be held within 10 days, the petitioner may ask the court to renew the emergency protection order.
