
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 141 - BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS
##### Subpart D - Pawnbroker Practices
###### ยง 141.32 Reservation pawnbroker license required.

(a) No person may accept pawns or pledges of personal property as security for monies or accounts due by an Indian within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo, Hopi or Zuni Reservations unless such person is an agent of a bank, saving bank, trust company, savings or building and loan association, or credit union operating under the laws of the United States or the laws of New Mexico, Arizona, or Utah or unless such person-

(1) Holds a valid license to operate a reservation business,

(2) Holds a valid reservation pawnbroker license, and

(3) Posts a bond on a form provided by the commissioner in the name of the licensee in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or such larger sum as may be designated by the Commissioner with two (2) or more sureties approved by the Commissioner or with a guaranty company qualified under the Act of August 13, 1894 (28 Stat. 279; 6 U.S.C. 6-13).

(b) An applicant for a reservation pawnbroker license shall apply in writing on a form provided by the Commissioner.

(c) The bond required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be in favor of the United States for the benefits of the customers of the licensee and shall specifically indemnify all customers who have recovered judgment against the licensee for destroyed, lost, misplaced or misappropriated pawn or other property. Any customer recovering such a judgment may bring suit on the bond in his or her own name. The bond shall be for the same period as the license.

(d) Any surety on a bond under this section may be relieved of liability by complying with the provisions of ยง 141.57.

(e) No person may accept pawns or pledges of personal property as security for monies or accounts due by an Indian after the effective date of a tribal ordinance banning the acceptance of pawn on the reservation.
