
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 141 - BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS
##### Subpart D - Pawnbroker Practices
###### ยง 141.39 Sale and redemption of pawn.

(a) If the retention period has expired and notice as required under ยง 141.38 of this part has been sent and received, the pledgee may proceed with the sale of the pawn.

(b) The pawn shall be sold no sooner than thirty (30) days but no later than twelve (12) months after notice of intent to sell has been given. The sale shall be a public sale, with notice of the time, place, and manner to be given in a tribal newspaper of general circulation not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the sale, or in the absence of such a newspaper, in a commercially reasonable manner. The sale itself shall also be conducted in a commercially reasonable manner.

(c) A pledgor may redeem pawn which has been put up for sale at any time before the day it is to be sold by tendering to the pledgee the face amount of the loan, plus the finance charge assessed on the original loan. The pledgee may also collect an additional charge covering the period between the date due and the date of redemption, provided that the rate of charge does not exceed the finance charge on the original loan.

(d) The pledgee may buy at the pledgee's own sale if the collateral is of a type customarily sold in a recognized market or which is the subject of widely distributed standard price quotations.

(e) Pawn held for more than twelve (12) months after notice of intent to sell has been given may not be sold, but the pledgor may redeem the pawn at any time by tendering to the pledgee the face amount of the loan, plus the finance charge that accrued before the end of the sale period provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
