
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 141 - BUSINESS PRACTICES ON THE NAVAJO, HOPI AND ZUNI RESERVATIONS
##### Subpart D - Pawnbroker Practices
###### ยง 141.40 Proceeds of sale.

(a) The following items shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of pawned items in the following order of priority:

(1) The expense of advertising and conducting the sale, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the amount loaned.

(2) The principal amount of the loan, plus any accrued finance charges.

(3) The finance charge calculated at the annual percentage rate of the original loan on the unpaid balance of the loan for the period from the date of default to the date of sale.

(b) Within ten (10) days after the sale of the pledge under this section, the pledgee shall send a notice to the pledgor informing the pledgor of the date of the sale, the proceeds of the sale, the allowable costs of the sale, any additional finance charges, and the amount of any surplus realized. The pledgee shall obtain proof that the notice was delivered.

(c) Any proceeds of the sale remaining after the deductions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section are deemed to be "surplus" and shall be paid over to the pledgor or the pledgor's estate in U.S. currency.

(d) The sale of pledged goods and the application of the proceeds in accordance with this section extinguishes all rights of action of the pledgee for any unpaid principal or finance charge on the original loan.
