
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Financial Activities
#### PART 142 - ALASKA RESUPPLY OPERATION
##### ยง 142.5 Who determines the rates and conditions of service of the Alaska Resupply Operation?

The general authority of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs to establish rates and conditions for users of the Alaska Resupply Operation is delegated to the Area Director.

(a) The Manager must develop a tariff that establishes rates and conditions for charging users.

(1) The tariff must be approved by the Area Director.

(2) The tariff must be published on or before March 1 of each year.

(3) The tariff must not be altered, amended, or published more frequently than once each year, except in an extreme emergency.

(4) The tariff must be published, circulated and posted throughout Alaska, particularly in the communities commonly and historically served by the resupply operation.

(b) The tariff must include standard freight categories and rate structures that are recognized within the industry, as well as any appropriate specialized warehouse, handling and storage charges.

(c) The tariff must specify rates for return cargo and cargo hauled between ports.

(1) The rates and conditions for the Bureau, other Federal agencies, the State of Alaska and its subsidiaries must be the same as that for Native entities.

(2) Different rates and conditions may be established for non-Indian and non-Native commercial establishments, if those establishments do not meet the standard in ยง 142.4(c) and no other service is available to that location.
