
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 150 - RECORD OF TITLE TO INDIAN LAND
##### Subpart C - Procedures and Requirements To Record Documents
###### ยง 150.206 What actions will the LTRO take if it discovers a title defect?

(a) If prior to recording a title document, the LTRO discovers that the title document omits one or more of the items required for recording by ยง 150.205(a) or (b), then the LTRO will notify the originating office to request correction. Once the omission is corrected, the LTRO will record the title document.

(b) If prior to recording a title document, the LTRO discovers there is an error in one or more of the items required for recording by ยง 150.205(a) or (b), then the LTRO will record the title document, unless the defect is fatal, with a notation on title and notify the originating office to request correction. Once the error is corrected, the LTRO will record the corrected title document and remove the notation.

(c) If the LTRO discovers a title defect during a title examination, the LTRO will notify the originating office of the defect, request correction, and make a notation in the record of title. Once the defect is corrected, the LTRO will record the corrected title document or other legal instruments to correct the title document and remove the notation.

(d) If the defect is contained in a probate record, the LTRO will notify the Agency or Region to initiate corrective action with the OHA.
