
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 161 - NAVAJO PARTITIONED LANDS GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart E - Reissuance of Grazing Permits
###### § 161.402 What are the procedures for reissuing permits?

BIA, with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, will reissue grazing permits only to individuals that meet the eligibility requirements in § 161.400. Responsibilities for reissuance of grazing permits are as follows:

(a) BIA will develop a complete list consisting of all former permittees whose permits were cancelled and the number of animal units previously authorized in prior grazing permits. This list will be provided to the Grazing Committee and Resources Committee for their review. BIA will also provide the Grazing Committee and Resources Committee with the current carrying capacity and stocking rate for each range unit within the Navajo Partitioned Lands, as determined under § 161.204.

(b) Within 90 days of receipt, the Grazing Committee will review the list developed under § 161.402(a), and make recommendations to the Resources Committee for the granting of grazing permits according to the eligibility and priority criteria in § 161.400.

(c) If the Grazing Committee fails to make its recommendation to the Resources Committee within 90 days after receiving the list of potential permittees, BIA will submit its recommendations to the Resources Committee.

(d) The Resources Committee will review and concur with the list of proposed permit grantees, and then forward a final list to BIA for the reissuance of grazing permits. If the Resources Committee does not concur, the procedures outlined in § 161.800 will govern.

(e) The final determination list of eligible permittees will be published. Permits will not be issued sooner than 90 days following publication of the final list.
