
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 13 - TRIBAL REASSUMPTION OF JURISDICTION OVER CHILD CUSTODY PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Reassumption
###### ยง 13.11 Contents of reassumption petitions.

(a) Each petition to reassume jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings and the accompanying plan shall contain, where available, the following information in sufficient detail to permit the Secretary to determine whether reassumption is feasible:

(1) Full name, address and telephone number of the petitioning tribe or tribes.

(2) A resolution by the tribal governing body supporting the petition and plan. If the territory involved is occupied by more than one tribe and jurisdiction is to be reassumed over all Indians residing in the territory, the governing body of each tribe involved must adopt such a resolution. A tribe that shares territory with another tribe or tribes may reassume jurisdiction only over its own members without obtaining the consent of the other tribe or tribes. Where a group of tribes form a consortium to reassume jurisdiction, the governing body of each participating tribe must submit a resolution.

(3) The proposed date on which jurisdiction would be reassumed.

(4) Estimated total number of members in the petitioning tribe or tribes, together with an explanation of how the number was estimated.

(5) Current criteria for membership in the tribe or tribes.

(6) Explanation of procedure by which a participant in an Indian child custody proceeding may determine whether a particular individual is a member of a petitioning tribe.

(7) Citation to provision in tribal constitution or similar governing document, if any, that authorizes the tribal governing body to exercise jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters.

(8) Description of the tribal court as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(12) that has been or will be established to exercise jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters. The description shall include an organization chart and budget for the court. The source and amount of non-tribal funds that will be used to fund the court shall be identified. Funds that will become available only when the tribe reassumes jurisdiction may be included.

(9) Copy of any tribal ordinances or tribal court rules establishing procedures or rules for the exercise of jurisdiction over child custody matters.

(10) Description of child and family support services that will be available to the tribe or tribes when jurisdiction reassumed. Such services include any resource to maintain family stability or provide support for an Indian child in the absence of a family-regardless of whether or not they are the type of services traditionally employed by social services agencies. The description shall include not only those resources of the tribe itself, but also any state or federal resources that will continue to be available after reassumption of jurisdiction.

(11) Estimate of the number of child custody cases expected during a year together with an explanation of how the number was estimated.

(12) Copy of any tribal agreements with states, other tribes or non-Indian local governments relating to child custody matters.

(b) If the petition is for jurisdiction other than transferral jurisdiction under 25 U.S.C. 1911(b), the following information shall also be included in the petition and plan:

(1) Citation of the statute or statutes upon which the state has based its assertion of jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters.

(2) Clear and definite description of the territory over which jurisdiction will be reassumed together with a statement of the size of the territory in square miles.

(3) If a statute upon which the state bases its assertion of jurisdiction is a surplus land statute, a clear and definite description of the reservation boundaries that will be reestablished for purposes of the Indian Child Welfare Act.

(4) Estimated total number of Indian children residing in the affected territory together with an explanation of how the number was estimated.
