
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Purpose, Definitions, and Scope
####### ยง 162.004 To what land does this part apply?

(a) This part applies to Indian land and Government land, including any tract in which an individual Indian or Indian tribe owns an interest in trust or restricted status.

(1) We will not take any action on a lease of fee interests or collect rent on behalf of fee interest owners. We will not condition our approval of a lease of the trust and restricted interests on your having obtained a lease from the owners of any fee interests. The lessee will be responsible for accounting to the owners of any fee interests that may exist in the property being leased.

(2) We will not include the fee interests in a tract in calculating the applicable percentage of interests required for consent to a lease document.

(b) This paragraph (b) applies if there is a life estate on the land to be leased.

(1) When all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are subject to a single life estate, the life tenant may lease the land without the consent of the owners of the remainder interests or our approval, for the duration of the life estate.

(i) The lease will terminate upon the death of the life tenant.

(ii) The life tenant must record the lease in the LTRO.

(iii) The lessee must pay rent directly to the life tenant under the terms of the lease unless the whereabouts of the life tenant are unknown, in which case we may collect rents on behalf of the life tenant.

(iv) We may monitor the use of the land on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests, as appropriate, but will not be responsible for enforcing the lease on behalf of the life tenant.

(v) We will not lease the remainder interests or join in a lease by the life tenant on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests except as needed to preserve the value of the land.

(vi) We will be responsible for enforcing the terms of the lease on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests.

(2) When less than all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are subject to a single life estate, the life tenant may lease his or her interest without the consent of the owners of the remainder interests, but must obtain the consent of the co-owners and our approval.

(i) We will not lease on the life tenant's behalf.

(ii) The lease must provide that the lessee pays the life tenant directly, unless the life tenant's whereabouts are unknown in which case we may collect rents on behalf of the life tenant.

(iii) The lease must be recorded in the LTRO, even where our approval is not required.

(iv) We will be responsible for enforcing the terms of the lease on behalf of the owners of the remainder interests.

(3) Where the remaindermen and the life tenant have not entered into a lease or other written agreement approved by the Secretary providing for the distribution of rent monies under the lease, the life tenant will receive payment in accordance with the distribution and calculation scheme set forth in Part 179 of this chapter.

(4) The life tenant may not cause or allow permanent injury to the land.

(5) The life tenant must provide a copy of the executed lease to all owners of the remainder interests.
