
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 13 - TRIBAL REASSUMPTION OF JURISDICTION OVER CHILD CUSTODY PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Reassumption
###### ยง 13.14 Secretarial review procedure.

(a) Upon receipt of the petition, the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs shall cause to be published in thea notice stating that the petition has been received and is under review and that it may be inspected and copied at the Bureau agency office that serves the petitioning tribe or tribes.

(1) No final action shall be taken until 45 days after the petition has been received.

(2) Notice that a petition has been disapproved shall be published in theno later than 75 days after the petition has been received.

(3) Notice that a petition has been approved shall be published on a date requested by the petitioning tribe or within 75 days after the petition has been received-whichever is later.

(b) Notice of approval shall include a clear and definite description of the territory presently subject to the reassumption of jurisdiction and shall state the date on which the reassumption becomes effective. A copy of the notice shall immediately be sent to the petitioning tribe and to the attorney general, governor and highest court of the affected State or States.

(c) Reasons for disapproval of a petition shall be sent immediately to the petitioning tribe or tribes.

(d) When a petition has been disapproved a tribe or tribes may repetition after taking action to overcome the deficiencies of the first petition.
