
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart B - Agricultural Leases
###### General Provisions
####### § 162.204 Must notice of applicable tribal laws and leasing policies be provided?

(a) A tribe must provide us with an official copy of any tribal law or leasing policy that supersedes or modifies these regulations under §§ 162.109 or 162.203 of this part. If the tribe has not already done so, we will provide notice of such a tribal law or leasing policy to affected Indian landowners and persons or entities undertaking activities on agricultural land. Such notice will be provided in the manner described in paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section.

(b) We will provide notice to Indian landowners, as to the superseding or modifying effect of any tribal leasing policy and their right to exempt their land from such a policy. Such notice will be provided by:

(1) Written notice included in a notice of our intent to lease the land, issued under § 162.209(b) of this subpart; or

(2) Public notice posted at the tribal community building or the United States Post Office, or published in the local newspaper that serves the area in which the Indian owners' land is located, at the time the tribal leasing policy is adopted.

(c) We will provide notice to persons or entities undertaking activities on agricultural land, as to the general applicability of tribal laws and the superseding or modifying effect of particular tribal laws and leasing policies. Such notice will be provided by:

(1) Written notice included in advertisements for lease, issued under § 162.212 of this subpart; or

(2) Public notice posted at the tribal community building or the United States Post Office, or published in a local newspaper of general circulation, at the time the tribal law is enacted or the leasing policy adopted.
