
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart B - Agricultural Leases
###### How to Obtain a Lease
####### ยง 162.207 When can the Indian landowners grant an agricultural lease?

(a) Tribes grant leases of tribally-owned agricultural land, including any tribally-owned undivided interest(s) in a fractionated tract, subject to our approval. Where tribal land is subject to a land assignment made to a tribal member or some other individual under tribal law or custom, the individual and the tribe must both grant the lease, subject to our approval.

(b) Adult Indian owners, or emancipated minors, may grant agricultural leases of their land, including undivided interests in fractionated tracts, subject to our approval.

(c) An agricultural lease of a fractionated tract may be granted by the owners of a majority interest in the tract, subject to our approval. Although prior notice to non-consenting individual Indian landowners is generally not needed prior to our approval of such a lease, a right of first refusal must be offered to any non-consenting Indian landowner who is using the entire lease tract at the time the lease is entered into by the owners of a majority interest. Where the owners of a majority interest grant such a lease on behalf of all of the Indian owners of a fractionated tract, the non-consenting Indian landowners must receive a fair annual rental.

(d) As part of the negotiation of a lease, Indian landowners may advertise their land to identify potential tenants with whom to negotiate.
