
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Procedures and Practice
#### PART 2 - APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS
##### ยง 2.20 Action by the Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs on appeal.

(a) When a decision is appealed to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, a copy of the notice of appeal shall be sent to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs.

(b) The notice of appeal sent to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals shall certify that a copy has been sent to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs.

(c) In accordance with the provisions of ยง 4.332(b) of title 43 of the Code of Federal Regulations, a notice of appeal to the Board of Indian Appeals shall not be effective until 20 days after receipt by the Board, during which time the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs shall have authority to decide to:

(1) Issue a decision in the appeal, or

(2) Assign responsibility to issue a decision in the appeal to a Deputy to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs.

(d) A copy of the decision shall be sent to the appellant and each known interested party by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Such receipts shall become a permanent part of the record.

(e) If the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs or the Deputy to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs to whom the authority to issue a decision has been assigned pursuant to ยง 2.20(c) does not make a decision within 60 days after all time for pleadings (including all extensions granted) has expired, any party may move the Board of Indian Appeals to assume jurisdiction subject to 43 CFR 4.337(b). A motion for Board decision under this section shall invest the Board with jurisdiction as of the date the motion is received by the Board.

(f) When the Board of Indian Appeals, in accordance with 43 CFR 4.337(b), refers an appeal containing one or more discretionary issues to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs for further consideration, the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs shall take action on the appeal consistent with the procedures in this section.

(g) The Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs shall render a written decision in an appeal from a decision of the Deputy to the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs/Director (Indian Education Programs) within 60 days after all time for pleadings (including all extensions granted) has expired. A copy of the decision shall be sent to the appellant and each known interested party by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Such receipts shall become a permanent part of the record. The decision shall be final for the Department and effective immediately unless the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs provides otherwise in the decision.
