
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Residential Leases
###### Lease Requirements
####### ยง 162.311 How long may the term of a residential lease run?

(a) A residential lease must provide for a definite lease term, state if there is an option to renew, and if so, provide for a definite term for the renewal period.

(1) The maximum term of a lease approved under 25 U.S.C. 4211 may not exceed 50 years or may be month-to-month. The lease may provide for an initial term of less than 50 years with a provision for one or more renewals, so long as the maximum term, including all renewals, does not exceed 50 years.

(2) The maximum term of a lease approved under 25 U.S.C. 415(a) may not exceed 50 years (consisting of an initial term not to exceed 25 years and one renewal not to exceed 25 years), unless a Federal statute provides for a longer maximum term (e.g., 25 U.S.C. 415(a) allows for a maximum term of 99 years for certain tribes), a different initial term, renewal term, or number of renewals.

(b) For tribal land, we will defer to the tribe's determination that the lease term, including any renewal, is reasonable. For individually owned Indian land, we will review the lease term, including any renewal, to ensure it is reasonable, given the:

(1) Purpose of the lease;

(2) Type of financing; and

(3) Level of investment.

(c) Unless the lease provides otherwise, a residential lease may not be extended by holdover.
