
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart D - Business Leases
###### Monetary Compensation Requirements
####### ยง 162.424 Must a business lease specify who receives monetary compensation payments?

(a) A business lease must specify whether the lessee will make payments directly to the Indian landowners (direct pay) or to us on their behalf.

(b) The lessee may make payments directly to the Indian landowners if:

(1) The Indian landowners' trust accounts are unencumbered;

(2) There are 10 or fewer beneficial owners; and

(3) One hundred percent of the beneficial owners (including those on whose behalf we have consented) agree to receive payment directly from the lessee at the start of the lease.

(c) If the lease provides that the lessee will directly pay the Indian landowners, then:

(1) The lease must include provisions for proof of payment upon our request.

(2) When we consent on behalf of an Indian landowner, the lessee must make payment to us on behalf of that landowner.

(3) The lessee must send direct payments to the parties and addresses specified in the lease, unless the lessee receives notice of a change of ownership or address.

(4) Unless the lease provides otherwise, compensation payments may not be made payable directly to anyone other than the Indian landowners.

(5) Direct payments must continue through the duration of the lease, except that:

(i) The lessee must make all Indian landowners' payments to us if 100 percent of the Indian landowners agree to suspend direct pay and provide us with documentation of their agreement; and

(ii) The lessee must make that individual Indian landowner's payment to us if any individual Indian landowner who dies, is declared non compos mentis, owes a debt resulting in a trust account encumbrance, or his or her whereabouts become unknown.
