
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart D - Business Leases
###### Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
####### ยง 162.463 What happens if BIA does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease document?

(a) If a Superintendent does not meet a deadline for issuing a decision on a lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage, the parties may file a written notice to compel action with the appropriate Regional Director.

(b) The Regional Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:

(1) Issue a decision; or

(2) Order the Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.

(c) The parties may file a written notice to compel action with the BIA Director if:

(1) The Regional Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (b) of this section;

(2) The Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or

(3) The initial decision on the lease, assignment, or leasehold mortgage is with the Regional Director, and he or she does not meet the deadline for such decision.

(d) The BIA Director has 15 days from receiving the notice to:

(1) Issue a decision; or

(2) Order the Regional Director or Superintendent to issue a decision within the time set out in the order.

(e) If the Regional Director or Superintendent does not issue a decision within the time set out in the order under paragraph (d)(2), then the BIA Director must issue a decision within 15 days from the expiration of the time set out in the order.

(f) The parties may file an appeal from our inaction to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals if the Director does not meet the deadline in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.

(g) The provisions of 25 CFR 2.8 do not apply to the inaction of BIA officials with respect to a decision on a lease, amendment, assignment, sublease, or leasehold mortgage under this subpart.
