
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart D - Business Leases
###### Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
####### ยง 162.467 What will BIA do if the lessee does not cure a violation of a business lease on time?

(a) If the lessee does not cure a violation of a business lease within the required time period, or provide adequate proof of payment as required in the notice of violation, we will consult with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, and determine whether:

(1) We should cancel the lease;

(2) The Indian landowners wish to invoke any remedies available to them under the lease;

(3) We should invoke other remedies available under the lease or applicable law, including collection on any available performance bond or, for failure to pay compensation, referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection; or

(4) The lessee should be granted additional time in which to cure the violation.

(b) Following consultation with the tribe for tribal land or, where feasible, with Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land, we may take action to recover unpaid compensation and any associated late payment charges.

(1) We do not have to cancel the lease or give any further notice to the lessee before taking action to recover unpaid compensation.

(2) We may still take action to recover any unpaid compensation if we cancel the lease.

(c) If we decide to cancel the lease, we will send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a cancellation letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 5 business days of our decision. We will send a copy of the cancellation letter to the tribe for tribal land, and will provide Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land with actual or constructive notice of the cancellation. The cancellation letter will:

(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;

(2) If applicable, notify the lessee of the amount of any unpaid compensation or late payment charges due under the lease;

(3) Notify the lessee of the lessee's right to appeal under part 2 of this chapter, including the possibility that the official to whom the appeal is made may require the lessee to post an appeal bond;

(4) Order the lessee to vacate the property within 31 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, if an appeal is not filed by that time; and

(5) Order the lessee to take any other action BIA deems necessary to protect the Indian landowners.

(d) We may invoke any other remedies available to us under the lease, including collecting on any available performance bond, and the Indian landowners may pursue any available remedies under tribal law.
