
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart E - Wind and Solar Resource Leases
###### WEEL Approval
####### ยง 162.530 What is the approval process for a WEEL?

(a) Before we approve a WEEL, we must determine that the WEEL is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:

(1) Review the WEEL and supporting documents;

(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and ensure compliance with all applicable environmental laws, land use laws, and ordinances;

(3) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given to the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and

(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.

(b) Upon receiving the WEEL package, we will promptly notify the parties whether the package is or is not complete. A complete package includes all the information and supporting documents required for a WEEL, including but not limited to, NEPA review documentation, where applicable.

(1) If the WEEL package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of a WEEL package, the parties may take action under ยง 162.588.

(2) If the WEEL package is complete, we will notify the parties of the date we receive the complete package, and, within 20 days of the date of receipt of the package at the appropriate BIA office, approve or disapprove the WEEL or return the package for revision.

(c) If we do not meet the deadline in this section, then the parties may take appropriate action under ยง 162.588.

(d) We will provide any WEEL approval determination and the basis for the determination, along with notification of appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the WEEL.

(e) We will provide any WEEL disapproval determination and the basis for the determination, along with notification of rights to an informal conference, in writing to the parties. Within 30 days of receipt of the disapproval determination, the parties may request an informal conference with the official who issued the determination. Within 30 days of receiving this request, the official must hold the informal conference with the parties. Within 10 days of the informal conference, the official must issue a decision and the basis for the decision, along with a notification of appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the WEEL.

(f) We will provide the approved WEEL on tribal land to the lessee and provide a copy to the tribe. We will provide the approved WEEL on individually owned Indian land to the lessee, and make copies available to the Indian landowners upon written request.
