
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart E - Wind and Solar Resource Leases
###### WSR Lease Approval
####### ยง 162.565 What is the approval process for a WSR lease?

(a) Before we approve a WSR lease, we must determine that the lease is in the best interest of the Indian landowners. In making that determination, we will:

(1) Review the lease and supporting documents;

(2) Identify potential environmental impacts and ensure compliance with all applicable environmental laws, land use laws, and ordinances;

(3) If the lease is being approved under 25 U.S.C. 415, assure ourselves that adequate consideration has been given to the factors in 25 U.S.C. 415(a); and

(4) Require any lease modifications or mitigation measures necessary to satisfy any requirements including any other Federal or tribal land use requirements.

(b) Upon receiving a WSR lease package, we will promptly notify the parties whether the package is or is not complete. A complete package includes all the information and supporting documents required under this subpart, including but not limited to, NEPA review documentation and valuation documentation, where applicable.

(1) If the WSR lease package is not complete, our letter will identify the missing information or documents required for a complete package. If we do not respond to the submission of a WSR lease package, the parties may take action under ยง 162.588.

(2) If the WSR lease package is complete, we will notify the parties of the date of receipt. Within 60 days of the receipt date, we will approve or disapprove the lease, return the package for revision, or inform the parties in writing that we need additional review time. If we inform the parties in writing that we need additional time, then:

(i) Our letter informing the parties that we need additional review time must identify our initial concerns and invite the parties to respond within 15 days of the date of the letter; and

(ii) We have 30 days from sending the letter informing the parties that we need additional time to approve or disapprove the lease.

(c) If we do not meet the deadlines in this section, then the parties may take appropriate action under ยง 162.588.

(d) We will provide any lease approval or disapproval and the basis for the determination, along with notification of any appeal rights under part 2 of this chapter, in writing to the parties to the lease.

(e) We will provide approved WSR leases on tribal land to the lessee and provide a copy to the tribe. We will provide approved WSR leases on individually owned Indian land to the lessee, and make copies available to the Indian landowners upon written request.
