
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 162 - LEASES AND PERMITS
##### Subpart E - Wind and Solar Resource Leases
###### WSR Lease Effectiveness, Compliance, and Enforcement
####### ยง 162.591 What will BIA do about a violation of a WSR lease?

(a) In the absence of actions or proceedings described in ยง 162.590(e), or if it is not appropriate for us to defer to the actions or proceedings, we will follow the procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) If we determine there has been a violation of the conditions of a WSR lease, other than a violation of payment provisions covered by paragraph (c) of this section, we will promptly send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested.

(1) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.

(2) The notice of violation will advise the lessee that, within 10 business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the lessee must:

(i) Cure the violation and notify us, and the tribe for tribal land, in writing that the violation has been cured;

(ii) Dispute our determination that a violation has occurred; or

(iii) Request additional time to cure the violation.

(3) The notice of violation may order the lessee to cease operations under the lease.

(c) A lessee's failure to pay compensation in the time and manner required by a WSR lease is a violation of the lease, and we will issue a notice of violation in accordance with this paragraph.

(1) We will send the lessees and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested:

(i) Promptly following the date on which payment was due, if the lease requires that payments be made to us; or

(ii) Promptly following the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the Indian landowners, if the lease provides for payment directly to the Indian landowners.

(2) We will send a copy of the notice of violation to the tribe for tribal land, or provide constructive notice to the Indian landowners for individually owned Indian land.

(3) The notice of violation will require the lessee to provide adequate proof of payment.

(d) The lessee and its sureties will continue to be responsible for the obligations in the lease until the lease expires or is terminated or cancelled.
