
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 163 - GENERAL FORESTRY REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Forest Management and Operations
###### ยง 163.14 Sale of forest products.

(a) Consistent with the economic objectives of the tribe and with the consent of the Secretary and authorized by tribal resolution or resolution of recognized tribal government, open market sales of Indian forest products may be authorized. Such sales require consent of the authorized representatives of the tribe for the sale of tribal forest products, and the owners of a majority Indian interest on individually owned lands. Open market sales of forest products from Indian land located off reservations will be permitted with the consent of the Secretary and majority Indian interest of the beneficial Indian owner(s).

(b) On individually owned Indian forest land not formally designated for retention in its natural state, the Secretary may, after consultation, sell the forest products without the consent of the owner(s) when in his or her judgment such action is necessary to prevent loss of value resulting from fire, insects, diseases, windthrow or other catastrophes.

(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, each sale of forest products having an estimated stumpage value exceeding $15,000 will not be approved until:

(1) An examination of the forest products to be sold has been made by a forest officer; and

(2) A report setting forth all pertinent information has been submitted to the approving officer as provided in ยง 163.20 of this part.

(d) With the approval of the Secretary, authorized beneficial Indian owners who have been duly apprised as to the value of the forest products to be sold, may sell or transfer forest products for less than the appraised value.

(e) Except as provided in ยง 163.14(d) of this part, in all such sales, the forest products shall be appraised and sold at stumpage rates not less than those established by the Secretary.
