
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 163 - GENERAL FORESTRY REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Forest Management and Operations
###### ยง 163.20 Execution and approval of contracts.

(a) All contracts for the sale of tribal forest products shall be executed by the authorized tribal representative(s). There shall be included with the contract an affidavit executed by the authorized tribal representative(s) setting forth the resolution or other authority of the governing body of the tribe. Contracts must be approved by the Secretary to be valid.

(b) Contracts for the sale of individually owned forest products shall be executed by the beneficial Indian owner(s) or the Secretary acting pursuant to a power of attorney from the beneficial Indian owner(s). Contracts must be approved by the Secretary to be valid.

(1) The Secretary may, after consultation with any legally appointed guardian, execute contracts on behalf of minors and beneficial Indian owners who are non compos mentis.

(2) The Secretary may execute contracts for a decedent's estate where ownership has not been determined or for those persons who cannot be located after a reasonable and diligent search and the giving of notice by publication.

(3) Upon the request of the owner of an undivided but unrestricted interest in land in which there are trust or restricted Indian interests, the Secretary may include such unrestricted interest in a sale of the trust or restricted interests in the timber, pursuant to this part, and perform any functions required of him/her by the contract of sale for both the restricted and the unrestricted interests, including the collection and disbursement of payments for timber and the forest management deductions from such payments.

(4) When consent of only a majority interest has been obtained, the Secretary may execute the sale on behalf of all owners to fulfill responsibilities to the beneficiaries of the trust. In such event, the contract file must contain evidence of the effort to obtain consent of all owners. When an individual cannot be located, the Secretary, after a reasonable and diligent search and the giving of notice by publication, may sign a power of attorney consenting to the sale for particular interests. For Indian forest land containing undivided restricted and unrestricted interests, only the restricted interests are considered in determining if a majority interest has been obtained.
