
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 163 - GENERAL FORESTRY REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Forest Management and Operations
###### ยง 163.25 Forest management deductions.

(a) Pursuant to the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 413 and 25 U.S.C. 3105, a forest management deduction shall be withheld from the gross proceeds of sales of forest products harvested from Indian forest land as described in this section.

(b) Gross proceeds shall mean the value in money or money's worth of consideration furnished by the purchaser of forest products purchased under a contract, permit, or other document for the sale of forest products.

(c) Forest management deductions shall not be withheld where the total consideration furnished under a contract, permit or other document for the sale of forest products is less than $5,001.

(d) Except as provided in ยง 163.25(e) of this part, the amount of the forest management deduction shall not exceed the lesser amount of ten percent (10%) of the gross proceeds or, the actual percentage in effect on November 28, 1990.

(e) The Secretary may increase the forest management deduction percentage for Indian forest land upon receipt of a written request from a tribe supported by a resolution executed by the authorized tribal representatives. At the request of the authorized tribal representatives and at the discretion of the Secretary the forest management deduction percentage may be decreased to not less than one percent (1%) or the requirement for collection may be waived.

(f) Forest management deductions are to be utilized to perform forest land management activities in accordance with an approved expenditure plan. Expenditure plans shall describe the forest land management activities anticipated to be undertaken, establish a time period for their completion, summarize anticipated obligations and expenditures, and specify the method through which funds are to be transferred or credited to tribal accounts from special deposit accounts established to hold amounts withheld as forest management deductions. Any forest management deductions that have not been incorporated into an approved expenditure plan by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the deductions are withheld, shall be collected into the general funds of the United States Treasury pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 413.

(1) For Indian forest lands located on an Indian reservation, a written expenditure plan for the use of forest management deductions shall be prepared annually and approved by the authorized tribal representative(s) and the Secretary. The approval of the expenditure plan by the authorized tribal representatives constitutes allocation of tribal funds for Indian forest land management activities. Approval of the expenditure plan by the Secretary shall constitute authority for crediting of forest management deductions to tribal account(s). The full amount of any deduction collected by the Secretary plus any income or interest earned thereon shall be available for expenditure according to the approved expenditure plan for the performance of forest land management activities on the reservation from which the forest management deduction is collected.

(2) Forest management deductions shall be handled in the same manner as described under ยง 163.25(f)(1) of this part if the expenditure plan approved by an Indian tribe and the Secretary provides for the conduct of forest land management activities on Indian forest lands located outside the boundaries of an Indian reservation.

(3) For public domain and Alaska Native allotments held in trust for Indians by the United States, forest management deductions may be utilized to perform forest land management activities on such lands in accordance with an expenditure plan approved by the Secretary.

(g) Forest management deductions withheld pursuant to this section shall not be available to cover the costs that are paid from funds appropriated for fire suppression or pest control or otherwise offset federal appropriations for meeting the Federal trust responsibility for management of Indian forest land.

(h) Within 120 days after the close of the tribal fiscal year, tribes shall submit to the Secretary a written report detailing the actual expenditure of forest management deductions during the past fiscal year. The Secretary shall have the right to inspect accounts, books, or other tribal records supporting the report.

(i) Forest management deductions incorporated into an expenditure plan approved by the Secretary shall remain available until expended.

(j) As provided in ยง 163.25(f) of this part, only forest management deductions that have not been incorporated into an approved expenditure plan may be deposited to a U.S. Treasury miscellaneous receipt account. No amount collected as forest management deductions shall be credited to any Federal appropriation. No other forest management deductions or fees derived from Indian forest land shall be collected to be covered into the general funds of the United States Treasury.
