
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 163 - GENERAL FORESTRY REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Forest Management and Operations
###### § 163.26 Forest product harvesting permits.

(a) Except as provided in §§ 163.13 and 163.27 of this part, removal of forest products that are not under formal contract, pursuant to § 163.19, shall be under forest product harvesting permit forms approved by the Secretary. Permits will be issued only with the written consent of the beneficial Indian owner(s) or the Secretary, for harvest of forest products from Indian forest land, as authorized in § 163.20 of this part. To be valid, permits must be approved by the Secretary. Minimum stumpage rates at which forest products may be sold will be set at the time consent to issue the permit is obtained. Payment and bonding requirements will be stipulated in the permit document as appropriate.

(b) Free use harvesting permits issued shall specify species and types of forest products to be removed. It may be stipulated that forest products removed under this authority cannot be sold or exchanged for other goods or services. The estimated value which may be harvested in a fiscal year by any individual under this authority shall not exceed $5,000. For the purpose of issuance of free use permits, individual shall mean an individual Indian or any organized group of Indians.

(c) Paid permits subject to forest management deductions, as provided in § 163.25 of this part, may be issued. Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, the stumpage value which may be harvested under paid permits in a fiscal year by any individual under this authority shall not exceed $25,000. For the purpose of issuance of paid permits, individual shall mean an individual or any operating entity comprised of more than one individual.

(d) A Special Allotment Timber Harvest Permit may be issued to an Indian having sole beneficial interest in an allotment to harvest and sell designated forest products from his or her allotment. The special permit shall include provision for payment by the Indian of forest management deductions pursuant to § 163.25 of this part. Unless waived by the Secretary, the permit shall also require the Indian to make a bond deposit with the Secretary as required by § 163.21. Such bonds will be returned to the Indian upon satisfactory completion of the permit or will be used by the Secretary in his or her discretion for planting or other work to offset damage to the land or the timber caused by failure to comply with the provisions of the permit. As a condition to granting a special permit under authority of this paragraph, the Indian shall be required to provide evidence acceptable to the Secretary that he or she has arranged a bona fide sale of the forest products, on terms that will protect the Indian's interests.
