
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 163 - GENERAL FORESTRY REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Forestry Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment and Training
###### ยง 163.42 Obligated service and breach of contract.
####### Obligated service.

(a)(1) Individuals completing forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement may be offered full time permanent employment with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation to fulfill their obligated service within 90 days of the date all program education requirements have been completed. If such employment is not offered within the 90-day period, the student shall be relieved of obligated service requirements. Not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of employment, the employer shall notify the participant of the work assignment, its location and the date work must begin. If the employer is other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the employer shall notify the Secretary of the offer for employment.

(2) Qualifying employment time eligible to be credited to fulfilling the obligated service requirement will begin the day after all program education requirements have been completed, with the exception of the forester intern program, which includes the special provisions outlined in ยง 163.40(b)(6)(iv). The minimum service obligation period shall be one year of full-time employment.

(3) The Secretary or other qualifying employer reserves the right to designate the location of employment for fulfilling the service obligation.

(4) A participant in any of the forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement who receives a degree may, within 30 days of the degree completion date, request a deferment of obligated service to pursue postgraduate or postdoctoral studies. In such cases, the Secretary shall issue a decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for deferral. The Secretary may grant such a request, however, deferments granted in no way waive or otherwise affect obligated service requirements.

(5) A participant in any of the forestry education programs with an obligated service requirement may, within 30 days of the date all program education requirements have been completed, request a waiver of obligated service based on personal or family hardship. The Secretary may grant a full or partial waiver or deny the request for waiver. In such cases, the Secretary shall issue a decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for waiver.
