
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 166 - GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart A - Purpose, Scope, and Definitions
###### ยง 166.1 What is the purpose and scope of this part?

(a) The purpose of this part is to describe the authorities, policies, and procedures the BIA uses to approve, grant, and administer a permit for grazing on tribal land, individually-owned Indian land, or government land.

(b) If the BIA's approval is not required for a permit, these regulations will not apply.

(c) These regulations do not apply to any tribal land which is permitted under a corporate charter issued by us pursuant to 25 U.S.C. ยง 477, or under a special act of Congress authorizing permits without our approval under certain conditions, except to the extent that the authorizing statutes require us to enforce such permits on behalf of the Indian landowners.

(d) To the extent that any provisions of this part conflict with Section 213 of the Indian Land Consolidation Act Amendments of 2000, the provisions of that act will govern.

(e) In approving a permit on behalf of the Indian landowners, the BIA will not permit for fee interest owners nor will we collect rent on behalf of fee interest owners. Our permitting of the trust and restricted interests of the Indian landowners will not be conditioned on a permit having been obtained from any fee interest owners. However, where all of the trust or restricted interests in a tract are subject to a life estate held in fee status, we will approve a permit of the remainder interests of the Indian landowners only if such action is necessary to preserve the value of the land or protect the interests of the Indian landowners. Where a life estate and remainder interest are both owned in trust or restricted status, the life estate and remainder interest must both be permitted under these regulations, unless the permit is for less than one year in duration. Unless otherwise provided by the document creating the life estate or by agreement, rent payable under the permit must be paid to the holder of the life estate under part 179 of this title.
