
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 166 - GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart E - Grazing Rental Rates, Payments, and Late Payment Collections
###### Late Rental Payment Collections
####### § 166.419 What will the BIA do if grazing rental payments are not made in the time and manner required by the permit?

(a) A permitee's failure to pay grazing rental payments in the time and manner required by a permit will be a violation of the permit, and a notice of violation will be issued under § 166.703 of this part. If the permit requires that grazing rental payments be made to us, we will send the permittee and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of the date on which the grazing rental payment was due. If the permit provides for payment directly to the Indian landowner(s), we will send the permittee and its sureties a notice of violation within five business days of the date on which we receive actual notice of non-payment from the Indian landowner(s).

(b) If a permittee fails to provide adequate proof of payment or cure the violation within the requisite time period described in § 166.704 of this part, and the amount due is not in dispute, we may immediately take action to recover the amount of the unpaid rent and any associated interest charges or late payment penalties. We may also cancel the permit under § 166.705 of this part, or invoke any other remedies available under the permit or applicable law, including collection on any available bond or referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection. An action to recover any unpaid amounts will not be conditioned on the prior cancellation of the permit or any further notice to the permittee, nor will such an action be precluded by a prior cancellation.

(c) Partial payments may be accepted, under special circumstances, by the Indian landowners or us, but acceptance will not operate as a waiver with respect to any amounts remaining unpaid or any other existing permit violations. Unless otherwise provided in the permit, overpayments may be credited as an advance against future grazing rental payments.

(d) If a personal or business check is dishonored, and a grazing rental payment is therefore not made by the due date, the failure to make the payment in a timely manner will be a violation of the permit, and a written notice of violation will be issued under § 166.703 of this part. Any payment made to cure such a default, and any future payments by the same permittee, must be made by one of the alternative payment methods listed in § 166.414(b) of this part.
