
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 166 - GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart J - Agriculture Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment, and Training
###### ยง 166.901 How will the BIA select an agriculture intern?

(a) The purpose of the agriculture intern program is to ensure the future participation of trained, professional Indians and Alaska Natives in the management of Indian and Alaska Native agricultural land. In keeping with this purpose, we will work with tribes and Alaska Natives:

(1) To obtain the maximum degree of participation from Indians and Alaska Natives in the agriculture intern program;

(2) To encourage agriculture interns to complete an undergraduate degree program in natural resources or agriculture-related field; and

(3) To create an opportunity for the advancement of natural resources and agriculture-related technicians to professional resource management positions with the BIA, other federal agencies providing an agriculture service to their respective tribe, a tribe, or tribal agriculture enterprise.

(b) Subject to restrictions imposed by agency budgets, we will establish and maintain in the BIA at least 20 positions for the agriculture intern program. All Indians and Alaska Natives who satisfy the qualification criteria may compete for positions.

(c) Applicants for intern positions must meet the following criteria:

(1) Be eligible for Indian preference as defined in 25 CFR part 5;

(2) Possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent;

(3) Be able to successfully complete the intern program within a three-year period; and

(4) Possess a letter of acceptance to an accredited post-secondary school or demonstrate that one will be sent within 90 days.

(d) We will advertise vacancies for agriculture intern positions semi-annually, no later than the first day of April and October, to accommodate entry into school.

(e) In selecting agriculture interns, we will seek to identify candidates who:

(1) Have the greatest potential for success in the program;

(2) Will take the shortest time period to complete the intern program; and

(3) Provide the letter of acceptance required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(f) Agriculture interns must:

(1) Maintain full-time status in an agriculture-related curriculum at an accredited post-secondary school;

(2) Maintain good academic standing;

(3) Enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional resource manager or agriculture-related professional with an approved organization for one year in exchange for each year in the program; and

(4) Report for service with the approved organization during any break in attendance at school of more than three weeks.

(g) The education committee will evaluate annually the performance of the agriculture intern program participants against requirements to ensure that they are satisfactorily progressing toward completion of program requirements.

(h) We will pay all costs for tuition, books, fees, and living expenses incurred by an agriculture intern while attending an accredited post-secondary school.
