
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 166 - GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart J - Agriculture Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment, and Training
###### ยง 166.903 How can I get an agriculture scholarship?

(a) We may grant agriculture scholarships to Indians and Alaska Natives enrolled as full-time students in accredited post-secondary and graduate programs of study in natural resources and agriculture-related curricula.

(b) The education committee established in ยง 166.900(c) of this subpart will select program participants based on eligibility requirements stipulated in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section without regard to applicants' financial needs or past scholastic achievements.

(c) Recipients of scholarships must reapply annually to continue to receive funding beyond the initial award period. Students who have received scholarships in past years, are in good academic standing, and have been recommended for continuation by their academic institution will be given priority over new applicants for scholarship assistance.

(d) The amount of scholarship funds an individual is awarded each year will be contingent upon the availability of funds appropriated each fiscal year and is subject to yearly change.

(e) Preparatory scholarships may be available for a maximum of three academic years of general, undergraduate course work leading to a degree in natural resources or agriculture-related curricula and may be awarded to individuals who:

(1) Possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent; and

(2) Are enrolled and in good academic standing at an acceptable post-secondary school.

(f) Undergraduate scholarships are available for a maximum of three academic years and may be awarded to individuals who:

(1) Have completed a minimum of 55 semester hours toward a bachelor's degree in a natural resources or agriculture-related curriculum; and

(2) Have been accepted into a natural resource or agriculture-related degree-granting program at an accredited college or university.

(g) Graduate scholarships are available for a maximum of five academic years for individuals selected into the graduate program of an accredited college or university that grants advanced degrees in natural resources or agriculture-related fields.

(h) A recipient of assistance under the scholarship program must enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a natural resources or agriculture-related professional with the BIA, other federal agency providing assistance to their respective tribe, a tribe, tribal agriculture enterprise, or an ANCSA Corporation for one year for each year in the program.

(i) We will pay all scholarships approved by the education committee established in ยง 166.900 of this subpart for which funding is available.
