
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 166 - GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart J - Agriculture Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment, and Training
###### ยง 166.905 Who can get assistance for postgraduate studies?

(a) The purpose of the postgraduate studies program is to enhance the professional and technical knowledge of Indian and Alaska Native natural resource and agriculture-related professionals working for an approved organization so that the best possible service is provided to Indian and Alaska Natives.

(b) We may pay the cost of tuition, fees, books, and salary of Alaska Natives and Indians who are employed by an approved organization and who wish to pursue advanced levels of education in natural resource or agriculture-related fields.

(c) The goal of the advanced study program is to encourage participants to obtain additional academic credentials such as a degree or diploma in a natural resources or agriculture-related field. Requirements of the postgraduate study program are:

(1) The duration of course work cannot be less than one semester or more than three years; and

(2) Students in the postgraduate studies program must meet performance standards as required by the graduate school offering the study program.

(d) Program applicants must submit application packages to the education committee. At a minimum, such packages must contain a resume and an endorsement signed by the applicant's supervisor clearly stating the need for and benefits of the desired training.

(e) The education committee must use the following criteria to select participants:

(1) Need for the expertise sought at both the local and national levels;

(2) Expected benefits, both locally and nationally; and

(3) Years of experience and the service record of the employee.

(f) Program participants will enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a natural resources or agriculture-related professional with an approved organization for one year for each year in the program. We may reduce the obligated service requirement if the employee receives supplemental funding such as research grants, scholarships, or graduate stipends and, as a result, reduces the need for financial assistance under this part. If the obligated service agreement is breached, we will collect the amount owed us in accordance with ยง 166.910 of this subpart.
