
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 166 - GRAZING PERMITS
##### Subpart J - Agriculture Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment, and Training
###### ยง 166.907 Who can be an intern?

(a) Natural resources or agriculture personnel working for an approved organization may apply for an internship within agriculture-related programs of agencies of the Department of the Interior or other federal agencies providing an agriculture service to their respective reservations.

(b) Natural resources or agriculture-related personnel from other Department of the Interior agencies may apply through proper channels for "internships" within the BIA's agriculture programs. With the consent of a tribe or Alaska Native organization, the BIA can arrange for an Intergovernmental Personnel Act assignment in tribal or Alaska Native agriculture programs.

(c) Natural resources and agriculture personnel from agencies not within the Department of the Interior may apply, through proper agency channels and pursuant to an interagency agreement, for an "internship" within the BIA and, with the consent of a tribe or Alaska Native organization, we can facilitate an Intergovernmental Personnel Act assignment in a tribe, tribal agriculture enterprise, or Alaska Native Corporation.

(d) Natural resources or agriculture personnel from a tribe, tribal agriculture enterprise, or Alaska Native Corporation may apply, through proper channels and pursuant to a cooperative agreement, for an internship within another tribe, tribal forest enterprise, or ANCSA Corporation agriculture program.

(e) The employing agency of participating federal employees will provide for the continuation of salary and benefits.

(f) The host agency for participating tribal, tribal agriculture enterprise, or Alaska Native Corporation agriculture employees will provide for salaries and benefits.

(g) A bonus pay incentive, up to 25 percent (%) of the intern's base salary, may be provided to intergovernmental interns at the conclusion of the internship period. Bonus pay incentives will be at the discretion of and funded by the host organization and must be conditioned upon the host agency's documentation of the intern's superior performance, in accordance with the agency's performance standards, during the internship period.
