
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Probate
#### PART 15 - PROBATE OF INDIAN ESTATES, EXCEPT FOR MEMBERS OF THE OSAGE NATION AND THE FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES
##### Subpart C - Preparing the Probate File
###### § 15.202 What items must the agency include in the probate file?

(a) We will include the items listed in this section in the probate file, except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The evidence of death of the decedent as provided under § 15.104.

(2) A completed "Data for Heirship Findings and Family History Form" or successor form, certified by BIA, with the enrollment or other identifying number shown for each potential heir or devisee.

(3) Information provided by potential heirs, devisees, or the Tribes on:

(i) Whether the heirs and devisees meet the definition of "Indian" for probate purposes, including enrollment or eligibility for enrollment in a Tribe; or

(ii) Whether the potential heirs or devisees are within two degrees of consanguinity of an "Indian."

(4) If an individual qualifies as an Indian only because of ownership of a trust or restricted interest in land, the date on which the individual became the owner of the trust or restricted interest.

(5) A certified inventory of trust or restricted land, including:

(i) Accurate and adequate descriptions of all land; and

(ii) Identification of any interests that represent less than 5 percent of the undivided interests in a parcel.

(6) A statement showing the balance and the source of funds in the decedent's IIM account on the date of death.

(7) A statement showing all receipts and sources of income to and disbursements, if any, from the decedent's IIM account after the date of death.

(8) Originals or copies of all wills, codicils, and revocations that have been provided to us.

(9) A copy of any statement or document concerning any wills, codicils, or revocations the BIA returned to the testator.

(10) Any statement renouncing an interest in the estate that has been submitted to us, and the information necessary to identify any person receiving a renounced interest.

(11) Claims of creditors that have been submitted to us under §§ 15.302 through 15.305, including documentation required by § 15.305.

(12) Documentation of any payments made on requests filed under the provisions of § 15.301.

(13) All the documents acquired under § 15.105.

(14) The record of each Tribal or individual request to purchase a trust or restricted land interest at probate.

(15) The record of any individual request for a consolidation agreement, including a description, such as an Individual/Tribal Interest Report, of any lands not part of the decedent's estate that are proposed for inclusion in the consolidation agreement.

(16) Valuation reports for those interests to which the special circumstances listed in 43 CFR 30.264 apply.

(b) If the estate includes only cash and the total value of the estate does not exceed $300 on the date of death, including funds deposited and accruing on or before the date of death, then we will include only the following the probate file.

(1) The evidence of death of the decedent as provided under § 15.104.

(2) A completed "Data for Heirship Findings and Family History Form" or successor form, certified by BIA as an accurate summary of the information available to BIA that is relevant to the probate of the estate (this form should be completed with information provided by potential heirs, devisees, or Tribes to the greatest extent possible, but BIA is not required to obtain documentation in addition to that provided by those entities).

(3) A statement showing the balance and the source of funds in the decedent's IIM account on the date of death.

(4) Certification that the decedent's estate does not contain any interests in trust or restricted land.

(5) Originals or copies of all wills, codicils, and revocations that have been provided to BIA.

(6) A copy of any statement or document concerning any wills, codicils, or revocations the BIA returned to the testator.

(7) Documentation of any payments made on requests filed under the provisions of § 15.301.

(8) All the documents acquired under § 15.105.
