
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 168 - GRAZING REGULATIONS FOR THE HOPI PARTITIONED LANDS AREA
##### ยง 168.16 Impoundment and disposal of unauthorized livestock.

Unauthorized livestock within any range unit of the Hopi Partitioned Lands which are not removed therefrom within the periods prescribed by the regulation will be impounded and disposed of by the Superintendent as provided herein.

(a) When the Area Director determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring and has definite knowledge of the kind of unauthorized livestock, and knows the name and address of the owners, such livestock may be impounded any time five days after written notice of intent to impound unauthorized livestock is mailed by certified mail or personally delivered to such owners or their agent.

(b) When the Area Director determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring but does not have complete knowledge of the number and class of livestock or if the name and address of the owner thereof are unknown, such livestock will be impounded anytime 15 days after the date of a General Notice of Intent to Impound unauthorized livestock is first published in the local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts.

(c) Unauthorized livestock on the Hopi Partitioned Lands which are owned by persons given notice under paragraph (a) of this section, and any unauthorized livestock in areas for which a notice has been posted and published under paragraph (b) of this section, will be impounded without further notice anytime within the twelve-month period immediately following the effective date of the notice.

(d) Following the impoundment of unauthorized livestock a notice of sale of impounded livestock will be published in the local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts. The notice will describe the livestock and specify the date, time and place of sale. The date set shall be at least 5 days after the publication and posting of such notice.

(e) The owners or their agent may redeem the livestock anytime before the time set for the sale by submitting proof of ownership and paying for all expenses incurred in gathering, impounding and feeding or pasturing the livestock and any trespass fees and/or damages caused by the animals.

(f) Livestock erroneously impounded shall be returned to the rightful owner and all expenses accruing thereto shall be waived.

(g) If the livestock are not redeemed before the time fixed for their sale, they shall be sold at public sale to the highest bidder, provided his bid is at or above the minimum amount set by the Superintendent based upon U.S.D.A.'s current Agricultural Statistic's Report for Arizona. If a bid at or above the minimum is not received the livestock may be sold at private sale at or above the minimum amount, reoffered at public sale, condemned and destroyed, or otherwise disposed of. When livestock are sold pursuant to this regulation, the superintendent shall furnish the buyer a bill of sale or other written instrument evidencing the sale.

(h) The proceeds of any sale of impounded livestock shall be applied as follows:

(1) To the payment of all expenses incurred by the United States in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock;

(2) In payment of any penalties or damages assessed pursuant to ยง 168.14 of this part which penalties or damages shall be credited to the Hopi tribe as provided in said section;

(3) Any remaining amount shall be paid over to the owner of said livestock upon his submitting proof of ownership.
