
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 169 - RIGHTS-OF-WAY OVER INDIAN LAND
##### Subpart A - Purpose, Definitions, General Provisions
###### ยง 169.7 Does this part apply to right-of-way grants submitted for approval before December 21, 2015?

(a) If your right-of-way grant is issued on or after April 21, 2016, this part applies.

(b) If we granted your right-of-way before April 21, 2016, the procedural provisions of this part apply except that if the procedural provisions of this part conflict with the explicit provisions of the right-of-way grant or statute authorizing the right-of-way document, then the provisions of the right-of-way grant or authorizing statute apply instead. Non-procedural provisions of this part do not apply.

(c) If you submitted an application for a right-of-way but we did not grant the right-of-way before April 21, 2016, then:

(1) You may choose to withdraw the document and resubmit after April 21, 2016, in which case this part will apply to that document; or

(2) You may choose to proceed without withdrawing, in which case:

(i) We will review the application under the regulations in effect at the time of your submission; and

(ii) Once we grant the right-of-way, the procedural provisions of this part apply except that if the procedural provisions of this part conflict with the explicit provisions of the right-of-way grant or statute authorizing the right-of-way document, then the provisions of the right-of-way grant or authorizing statute apply instead. Non-procedural provisions of this part do not apply.

(d) For any assignments completed before April 21, 2016, the current assignee must, by August 16, 2016, provide BIA with documentation of any past assignments or notify BIA that it needs an extension and explain the reason for the extension.

(e) To the maximum extent possible, BIA will interpret any ambiguous language in the right-of-way document or statute to be consistent with these regulations.
