
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Policies, Applicability, and Definitions
###### ยง 170.5 What definitions apply to this part?
####### National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (or NTTFI)

means at a minimum, transportation facilities that are eligible for assistance under the Tribal transportation program that an Indian Tribe has requested, including facilities that meet at least one of the following criteria:

(1) Were included in the Bureau of Indian Affairs system inventory prior to October 1, 2004.

(2) Are owned by an Indian Tribal government ("owned" means having the authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain the facility (see 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20)).

(3) Are owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs ("owned" means having the authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain the facility (See 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(20)).

(4) Were constructed or reconstructed with funds from the Highway Trust Fund under the Indian reservation roads program since 1983.

(5) Are public roads or bridges within the exterior boundary of Indian reservations, Alaska Native villages, and other recognized Indian communities (including communities in former Indian reservations in the State of Oklahoma) in which the majority of residents are American Indians or Alaska Natives.

(6) Are public roads within or providing access to either:

(i) An Indian reservation or Tribal trust land or restricted Tribal land that is not subject to fee title alienation without the approval of the Federal Government; or

(ii) Indian or Alaska Native villages, groups, or communities whose residents include Indians and Alaska Natives whom the Secretary has determined are eligible for services generally available to Indians under Federal laws applicable to Indians.

(7) Are primary access routes requested by Tribal governments for inclusion in the NTTFI, including roads between villages, roads to landfills, roads to drinking water sources, roads to natural resources identified for economic development, and roads that provide access to intermodal terminals, such as airports, harbors, or boat landings.
