
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility
###### Eligible Uses of TTP Funds
####### ยง 170.113 How can a Tribe determine whether a new use of funds is allowable?

(a) A Tribe that proposes new uses of TTP funds must ask BIA or FHWA in writing whether the proposed use is eligible under Federal law.

(1) In cases involving eligibility questions that refer to 25 U.S.C., BIA will determine whether the new proposed use of TTP funds is allowable and provide a written response to the requesting Tribe within 45 days of receiving the written inquiry. Tribes may appeal a denial of a proposed use by BIA under 25 CFR part 2. The address is: Department of the Interior, BIA, Division of Transportation, 1849 C Street NW., MS 4513 MIB, Washington, DC 20240.

(2) In cases involving eligibility questions that refer to the TTP or 23 U.S.C., BIA will refer an inquiry to FHWA for decision. FHWA must provide a written response to the requesting Tribe within 45 days of receiving the written inquiry from the Tribe. Tribes may appeal denials of a proposed use by the FHWA to: FHWA, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.

(b) To the extent practical, the deciding agency must consult with the TTP Coordinating Committee before denying a request.

(c) BIA and FHWA will:

(1) Send copies of all eligibility determinations to the TTP Coordinating Committee and BIA Regional offices;

(2) Coordinate all responses and if the requested agency fails to issue a decision to the requesting Tribe within the required time, the proposed use will be deemed to be allowable for that specific project; and

(3) Promptly make any final determination available on agency Web sites.
