
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility
###### TTP Coordinating Committee
####### ยง 170.135 What is the TTP Coordinating Committee?

(a) Under this part, the Secretaries will establish a TTP Coordinating Committee that:

(1) Provides input and recommendations to BIA and FHWA in developing TTP regulations, policies and procedures; and

(2) Supplements government-to-government consultation by coordinating with and obtaining input from Tribes, BIA, and FHWA.

(b) The Committee consists of 24 Tribal regional representatives (two from each BIA Region) and two non-voting Federal representatives (FHWA and BIA).

(c) The Secretary must select the regional Tribal representatives from nominees officially submitted by the region's Tribes.

(1) To the extent possible, the Secretary must make the selection so that there is representation from a broad cross-section of large, medium, and small Tribes.

(2) Tribal nominees must be Tribal governmental officials or Tribal employees with authority to act for their Tribal government.

(d) For purposes of continuity, the Secretary will appoint the Tribal representatives to a three year term. The appointments will be carried out so that only one of a region's two representatives will be appointed in any one year. Should the Tribal appointment or employment of a committee representative terminate during his/her term, the representative must notify the Secretary of this change and his/her membership to the Committee will cease. Upon receipt of the notification, the Secretary will seek nominations from the region's Tribes to replace the representative for the remainder of the term.

(e) Should the need arise, the Secretary will replace representatives.
