
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility
###### TTP Coordinating Committee
####### ยง 170.137 How does the TTP Coordinating Committee conduct business?

The Committee holds at least two meetings a year. In order to maximize participation by the Tribal public, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary its proposed meeting dates and locations for each fiscal year no later than October 1st. Subject to approval by the Secretary, additional Committee meetings may be called with the consent of one-third of the Committee members, or by BIA or FHWA. The Committee conducts business at its meetings as follows:

(a) A quorum consists of representation from eight BIA Regions.

(b) The Committee will operate by consensus or majority vote, as determined by the Committee in its protocols.

(c) Any Committee member can submit an agenda item to the Chair.

(d) The Committee will work through a committee-approved annual work plan and budget.

(e) Annually, the Committee must elect from among the Committee membership a Chair, a Vice-Chair, and other officers. These officers will be responsible for preparing for and conducting Committee meetings and summarizing meeting results. These officers will also have other duties that the Committee may prescribe.

(f) The Committee must keep the Secretary and the Tribes informed through an annual accomplishment report provided within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year.

(g) The Committee's budget will be funded through the TTP management and oversight funds, not to exceed $150,000 annually.
