
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 170 - Allowable Uses of TTP funds

TTP funds must be used to pay the cost of those items identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(1), including:

(a) TTP funds can be used for the following planning and design activities:

(1) Planning and design of Tribal Transportation Facilities.

(2) Transportation planning activities, including planning for tourism and recreational travel.

(3) Development, establishment, and implementation of Tribal transportation management systems such as safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management.

(4) Tribal transportation plans and transportation improvement programs (TIPS).

(5) Coordinated technology implementation program (CTIP) projects.

(6) Traffic engineering and studies.

(7) Identification, implementation, and evaluation of data-driven safety needs.

(8) Tribal transportation standards.

(9) Preliminary engineering studies.

(10) Interagency program/project formulation, coordination and review.

(11) Environmental studies and archeological investigations directly related to transportation programs and projects.

(12) Costs associated with obtaining permits and/or complying with Tribal, Federal, State, and local environmental, archeological and natural resources regulations and standards.

(13) Development of natural habitat and wetland conservation and mitigation plans, including plans authorized under the Water Resources Development Act of 1990, 104 Stat. 4604 (Water Resources Development Act).

(14) Architectural and landscape engineering services related to transportation programs.

(15) Engineering design related to transportation programs, including permitting activities.

(16) Inspection of bridges and structures.

(17) Tribal Transportation Assistance Centers (TTACs).

(18) Safety planning, programming, studies and activities.

(19) Tribal employment rights ordinance (TERO) fees.

(20) Purchase or lease of advanced technological devices used for transportation planning and design activities such as global positioning units, portable weigh-in-motion systems, hand-held data collection units, related hardware and software, etc.

(21) Planning, design and coordination for Innovative Readiness Training projects.

(22) Transportation planning and project development activities associated with border crossings on or affecting Tribal lands.

(23) Public meetings and public involvement activities associated with transportation projects and planning.

(24) Leasing or rental of equipment used in transportation planning or design programs.

(25) Transportation-related technology transfer activities and programs.

(26) Educational activities related to bicycle safety.

(27) Planning and design of mitigation impacts to environmental resources caused by a transportation project, including, but not limited to, wildlife, habitat, ecosystems, historic properties, and wetlands.

(28) Evaluation of community impacts such as land use, mobility, access, social, safety, psychological, displacement, economic, and aesthetic impacts.

(29) Acquisition of land and interests in land required for right-of-way, including control of access thereto from adjoining lands, the cost of appraisals, cost of surveys, cost of examination and abstract of title, the cost of certificate of title, advertising costs, and any fees incidental to such acquisition.

(30) Cost associated with relocation activities including financial assistance for displaced businesses or persons and other activities as authorized by law.

(31) On-the-job education including classroom instruction and pre-apprentice training activities related to transportation planning and design.

(32) Other eligible activities as approved by FHWA.

(33) Any additional activities identified by TTP Coordinating Committee guidance and approved by the appropriate Secretaries (see § 170.137).

(34) Indirect general and administrative costs; and

(35) Other eligible activities described in this part.

(b) TTP funds can be used for the following construction and improvement activities:

(1) Construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, resurfacing, restoration, and operational improvements for Tribal transportation facilities.

(2) Construction or improvement of Tribal transportation facilities necessary to accommodate other transportation modes.

(3) Construction of toll roads, highway bridges and tunnels, and toll and non-toll ferry boats and terminal facilities, and approaches thereto (except when on the Interstate System) to the extent permitted under 23 U.S.C. 129.

(4) Construction of projects for the elimination of hazards at railway-highway crossings, including the separation or protection of grades at crossings, the reconstruction of existing railroad grade crossing structures, and the relocation of highways to eliminate grade crossings.

(5) Installation of protective devices at railway-highway crossings.

(6) Transit facilities, whether publicly or privately owned, that serve Indian reservations and other communities or that provide access to or are located within an Indian reservation or community (see §§ 170.131 through 170.134 for additional information).

(7) Engineered pavement overlays that add to the structural value and design life or increase the skid resistance of the pavement.

(8) Tribally-owned, post-secondary vocational school transportation facilities.

(9) Road sealing.

(10) The placement of a double bituminous surface and chip seals during the construction of an approved project (as the non-final course) or that form the final surface of low volume roads.

(11) Seismic retrofit, replacement, rehabilitation, and painting of road bridges.

(12) Application of calcium magnesium acetate, sodium acetate/formate, or other environmentally acceptable, minimally corrosive anti-icing and de-icing compositions on road bridges, and approaches thereto and other elevated structures.

(13) Installation of scour countermeasures for road bridges and other elevated structures.

(14) Special pedestrian facilities built in lieu of streets or roads, where standard street or road construction is not feasible.

(15) Standard regulatory, warning, guide, and other official traffic signs, including dual language signs, which comply with the MUTCD that are part of transportation projects. TTP funds may also be used on interpretive signs (signs intended for viewing only by pedestrians, bicyclists, and occupants of vehicles parked out of the flow of traffic) that are culturally relevant (native language, symbols, etc.) that are a part of transportation projects.

(16) Traffic barriers and bridge rails.

(17) Engineered spot safety improvements.

(18) Planning and development of rest areas, recreational trails, parking areas, sanitary facilities, water facilities, and other facilities that accommodate the traveling public.

(19) Public approach roads and interchange ramps that meet the definition of a Tribal Transportation Facility.

(20) Construction of roadway lighting and traffic signals.

(21) Adjustment or relocation of utilities directly related to roadway work, not required to be paid for by local utility companies.

(22) Conduits crossing under the roadway to accommodate utilities that are part of future development plans.

(23) Restoration of borrow and gravel pits created by projects funded from the TTP.

(24) Force account and day labor work, including materials and equipment rental, being performed in accordance with approved plans and specifications.

(25) Experimental features where there is a planned monitoring and evaluation schedule.

(26) Capital and operating costs for traffic monitoring, management, and control facilities and programs.

(27) Safely accommodating the passage of vehicular and pedestrian traffic through construction zones.

(28) Construction engineering including contract/project administration, inspection, and testing.

(29) Construction of temporary and permanent erosion control, including landscaping and seeding of cuts and embankments.

(30) Landscape and roadside development features.

(31) Marine facilities and terminals as intermodal linkages.

(32) Construction of visitor information centers, kiosks, and related items.

(33) Other appropriate public road facilities such as visitor centers as determined by the Secretary of Transportation.

(34) Facilities adjacent to roadways to separate pedestrians and bicyclists from vehicular traffic for operational safety purposes, or special trails on separate rights-of-way.

(35) Construction of pedestrian walkways and bicycle transportation facilities, such as a new or improved lane, path, or shoulder for use by bicyclists and a traffic control device, shelter, or parking facility for bicycles.

(36) Facilities adjacent to roadways to separate modes of traffic for safety purposes.

(37) Acquisition of scenic easements and scenic or historic sites provided they are part of an approved project or projects.

(38) Debt service on bonds or other debt financing instruments issued to finance TTP construction and project support activities.

(39) Any project to encourage the use of carpools and vanpools, including provision of carpooling opportunities to the elderly and individuals with disabilities, systems for locating potential riders and informing them of carpool opportunities, acquiring vehicles for carpool use, designating existing highway lanes as preferential carpool highway lanes, providing related traffic control devices, and designating existing facilities for use for preferential parking for carpools.

(40) Fringe and corridor parking facilities including access roads, buildings, structures, equipment improvements, and interests in land.

(41) Adjacent public parking areas.

(42) Costs associated with obtaining permits and/or complying with Tribal, Federal, State, and local environmental, archeological, and natural resources regulations and standards on TTP projects.

(43) Seasonal transportation routes, including snowmobile trails, ice roads, overland winter roads, and trail markings. (See § 170.117.)

(44) Tribal fees such as employment taxes (TERO), assessments, licensing fees, permits, and other regulatory fees.

(45) On-the-job education including classroom instruction and pre-apprentice training activities related to TTP construction projects such as equipment operations, surveying, construction monitoring, testing, inspection and project management.

(46) Installation of advance technological devices on TTP transportation facilities such as permanent weigh-in-motion systems, informational signs, intelligent transportation system hardware, etc.

(47) Cultural and environmental resource monitoring, management, and mitigation for transportation related activities
