
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Tribal Transportation Program Policy and Eligibility
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 170 - Allowable Uses of TTP funds
####### et seq.,

(48) Mitigation activities required by Tribal, State, or Federal regulatory agencies and 42 U.S.C. 4321,the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).

(49) Purchasing, leasing or renting of construction or maintenance equipment. All equipment purchase request submittals must be accompanied by written cost analysis and approved by FHWA or BIA. When purchasing construction or maintenance equipment, a Tribe must:

(i) Construction-Develop a lease/purchase cost analysis that identifies the overall benefit of purchasing the piece of equipment versus leasing. This analysis must be submitted to BIA or FHWA for approval per § 170.113. If approved, the funding must be identified on a FHWA-approved TTIP in order to be expended in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(4)(B).

(ii) Maintenance-The equipment costs are considered part of the funding identified in 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(8) and must be identified on a FHWA-approved TTIP in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 202(b)(4)(B) in order to be expended.

(50) Coordination and construction materials for innovative readiness training projects operated by entities such as the Department of Defense (DOD), the American Red Cross, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), other cooperating Federal agencies, States and their political subdivisions, Tribal governments, or other appropriate non-governmental organizations.

(51) Emergency repairs on Tribal Transportation Facilities.

(52) Public meetings and public involvement activities.

(53) Construction of roads on dams and levees.

(54) Transportation alternative activities as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a).

(55) Modification of public sidewalks adjacent to or within Tribal transportation facilities.

(56) Highway and transit safety infrastructure improvements and hazard eliminations.

(57) Transportation control measures such as employer-based transportation management plans, including incentives, shared-ride services, employer sponsored programs to permit flexible work schedules and other activities, other than clause (xvi) listed in section 108(f)(1)(A) of the Clean Air Act, (42 U.S.C. 7408(f)(1)(A)).

(58) Environmental restoration and pollution abatement activities in order to construct a transportation project or to mitigate impacts caused by a transportation project.

(59) Trail development and related activities as identified in §§ 170.123 through 170.126.

(60) Development of scenic overlooks and information centers.

(61) Natural habitat and wetlands mitigation efforts related to TTP projects, including:

(i) Participation in natural habitat and wetland mitigation banks, including banks authorized under the Water Resources Development Act, and

(ii) Contributions to Tribal, statewide and regional efforts to conserve, restore, enhance, and create natural habitats and wetland, including efforts authorized under the Water Resources Development Act.

(62) Mitigation of damage to wildlife, habitat and ecosystems caused as a result of a transportation project.

(63) Construction of permanent fixed or moveable structures for snow or sand control.

(64) Cultural access roads (see § 170.115).

(65) Other eligible items as approved by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).

(66) Any additional activities proposed by a Tribe or the TTP Coordinating Committee and approved by the appropriate Secretaries (see §§ 170.113 and 170.136).

(67) Other eligible activities identified in this part (c) TTP funds can be used for maintenance activities as defined in subpart G of this regulation.

(d) Each of the items identified in this appendix must be interpreted in a manner that permits, rather than prohibits, a proposed use of funds.
