
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities
###### Transportation Planning
####### ยง 170.413 What is the public's role in developing the long-range transportation plan?

BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe must solicit public involvement. If there are no Tribal policies regarding public involvement, a Tribe must use the procedures in this section. Public involvement begins at the same time long-range transportation planning begins and covers the range of users, from stakeholders and private citizens to major public and private entities. Public involvement must include either meetings or notices, or both.

(a) For public meetings, BIA, FHWA or the Tribe must:

(1) Advertise each public meeting in local and Tribal public newspapers at least 15 days before the meeting date. In the absence of local and Tribal public newspapers, BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe may post notices under locally acceptable practices;

(2) Provide at the meeting copies of the draft LRTP;

(3) Provide information on funding and the planning process; and

(4) Provide the public the opportunity to comment, either orally or in writing.

(b) For public notices, BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe must:

(1) Publish a notice in the local and Tribal public newspapers when the draft LRTP is complete. In the absence of local and Tribal public newspapers, BIA, FHWA, or the Tribe may post notices under locally acceptable practices; and

(2) State in the notice that the LRTP is available for review, where a copy can be obtained, whom to contact for questions, where comments may be submitted, and the deadline for submitting comments (normally 30 days).
