
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities
###### Tribal Transportation Improvement Programs
####### ยง 170.423 How are annual updates or amendments to the TTIP conducted?

(a) The TTIP annual update allows:

(1) Changes to schedules and funding amounts for identified projects and activities; and

(2) The addition of transportation projects and activities planned for the next four years.

(b) During the first quarter of a fiscal year, Tribes will be notified of the opportunity to update their TTIP. This notification will contain information on where the Tribes can access their estimated TTP funding amounts for that fiscal year, and will include a copy of their previously approved TTIP, as well as instructions for submitting the annual update.

(c) The Tribe must then review any new transportation planning information and priority lists, update their TTIP using the procedures in ยง 170.421, and forward the documentation to their respective BIA Regional Office or to FHWA.

(d) If forwarded to:

(1) A BIA Regional Office-The Office will review all submitted information with the Tribe and provide a written response (concurring, denying, or requesting additional information) within 45 days. If the BIA regional office concurs in the TTIP, it is then forwarded to FHWA for final approval.

(2) FHWA-FHWA will review all submitted information with the Tribe and provide a written response (approving, denying, or requesting additional information) within 45 days. Once a proposed TTIP update is approved by FHWA, it will be included in that year's overall TTPTIP.

(e) The Tribe may amend their approved TTIP at any time using the procedures in ยง 170.421 and paragraph (d) of this section in order to add a new project or activity within the current fiscal year that they intend to expend TTP funds on.
