
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities
###### National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory
####### ยง 170.443 What is required to successfully include a proposed transportation facility in the NTTFI?

(a) A proposed transportation facility is any transportation facility, including a highway bridge, that will serve public transportation needs, meets the eligibility requirements of the TTP, and does not currently exist. It must meet the eligibility requirements of the TTP and be open to the public when constructed. In order to have a proposed facility placed on the NTTFI, a Tribe must submit all of the following to the BIADOT/FHWA Quality Assurance Team for consideration:

(1) A Tribal resolution or other official action identifying support for the facility and its placement on the NTTFI.

(2) A copy of the Tribe's LRTP containing:

(i) A description of the current land use and identification of land ownership within the proposed road's corridor (including what public easements may be required);

(ii) A description of need and outcomes for the facility including a description of the project's termini; and

(iii) The sources of funding to be used for construction.

(3) If the landowner is a public authority other than the Tribe or BIA, documentation from the public authority that the proposed road has been identified in their LRTP, STIP approved by FHWA, or other published transportation planning documents.

(4) Documentation clearly identifying that easements or rights-of-way have been acquired or a clear written statement of willingness to provide a right-of-way from each landowner along the route.

(5) Certification that a public involvement process has been carried out for the proposed road.

(6) A synopsis discussing the project's anticipated environmental impacts as well as the engineering and construction challenges.

(7) Documentation that the project can meet financial or fiscal constraint requirements including financial information demonstrating that the project can be implemented using existing or reasonably available funding sources, and that the project route can be adequately maintained after construction. (See 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135.)

(8) Documentation identifying the entity responsible for maintenance of the facility after construction is completed.

(b) For those proposed roads that were included in the NTTFI as of November 7, 2016, the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section may be submitted for approval to BIA and FHWA at any time, but is not required in order for those proposed roads to remain in the NTTFI, unless any changes or updates to the proposed road were (or are) made after that date.
