
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities
###### National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory
####### ยง 170.444 How is the NTTFI updated?

(a) Submitting data into the NTTFI for a new facility is carried out on an annual basis as follows:

(1) BIA Regional Offices provide each Tribe within its region with a copy of the Tribe's own NTTFI data during the first quarter of each fiscal year.

(2) Tribes review the provided data and are responsible for entering all changes/updates into the database. This work must be completed by March 15. The submissions must include, at a minimum, all required minimum attachments (see ยง 170.446) and authorizing resolutions or similar official authorizations.

(3) The BIA Regional Office reviews each Tribe's submission. If any errors or omissions are identified, the BIA Regional Office will return the submittals along with a request for corrections to the Tribe no later than May 15. If no errors or omissions are found, the BIA Regional Office validates the data and forwards it to BIADOT for review and approval.

(4) The Tribe must correct any errors or omissions in the data entries or return the corrected submittals back to the BIA Regional Office by June 15.

(5) Each BIA Regional Office must validate its regional data by July 15.

(6) BIADOT approves the current inventory year submissions from BIA Regional Offices by September 30 or returns the submissions to the BIA Regional Office if additional work is required.

(7) New facility data submitted outside of the above referenced dates are not guaranteed for inclusion in the official inventory identified in this subsection.

(b) Updating the data on a facility currently listed in the NTTFI is carried out as follows:

(1) At any time, a Tribe may submit a request to the BIA Region asking for the NTTFI data of an existing facility to be updated. The request must include the Tribe's updated data and background information on how and why the data was obtained. At the request of a Tribe, FHWA may assist BIA and the Tribe in updating the NTTFI data as required under this part.

(2) The BIA Region must review the submitted data and respond to the Tribe within 30 days of its receipt.

(i) If approved, the BIA Region validates the data and forwards it to BIADOT for review and approval.

(ii) If not approved, the BIA Region returns the submittals to the Tribe along with a detailed written explanation and supporting documentation of the reasons for the disapproval. The Tribe must correct the data entries and return the corrected submittals back to the BIA Region.

(3) BIADOT approves the current inventory year submittals from BIA Regional Offices or returns the submittals to the BIA Regional Office if additional work is required.

(c) A Tribe may appeal the rejection of submitted data on a new or existing facility included in the NTTFI by filing a written notice of appeal to the Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, with a copy to the BIA Regional Director.

(d) To be included in the annual NTTFI update used for administrative and reporting purposes for any given fiscal year, submittals for new facilities and updates for existing facilities must be officially accepted by BIA and FHWA by September 30th of that year.
