
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities
###### Construction and Construction Monitoring
####### ยง 170.473 When is a project complete?

A project is considered substantially complete when all work is completed and accepted (except for minor tasks yet to be completed (punch list)) and the project is open to traffic. The project is completed only after all the requirements of this section are met.

(a) At the end of a construction project, the public authority, agency, or organization responsible for the project must make a final inspection. The inspection determines whether the project has been completed in reasonable conformity with the PS&E.

(1) Appropriate officials from the Tribe, BIA, responsible public authority, and FHWA should participate in the inspection, as well as contractors and maintenance personnel.

(2) All project information must be made available during final inspection and used to develop the TTP construction project closeout report. Some examples of project information are: Daily diaries, weekly progress reports, subcontracts, subcontract expenditures, salaries, equipment expenditures, as-built drawings, etc.

(b) After the final inspection, the facility owner makes final acceptance of the project. At this point, the Tribe or BIA must complete a project closeout and final accounting of all TTP construction project expenditures under ยง 170.474.

(c) If applicable, all documents required by 25 CFR part 169 must be completed.
