
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Land and Water
#### PART 170 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Planning, Design, and Construction of Tribal Transportation Program Facilities
###### Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 170 - Cultural Resource and Environmental Requirements for the TTP

All BIA, FHWA, and Tribal work for the TTP must comply with cultural resource and environmental requirements under applicable Federal laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:

1. 16 U.S.C. 1531, Endangered Species Act.

2. 16 U.S.C. 4601, Land and Water Conservation Fund Act (Section 6(f)).

3. 16 U.S.C. 661-667d, Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act.

4. 23 U.S.C. 138, Preservation of Parklands, commonly referred to as 4(f).

5. 25 U.S.C. 3001-3013, Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.

6. 33 U.S.C. 1251, Federal Water Pollution Control Act and Clean Water Act.

7. 42 U.S.C. 7401, Clean Air Act.

8. 42 U.S.C. 4321, National Environmental Policy Act.

9. 49 U.S.C. 303, Preservation of Parklands.

10. 7 U.S.C. 4201, Farmland Protection Policy Act.

11. 50 CFR part 402, Endangered Species Act regulations.

12. 7 CFR part 658, Farmland Protection Policy Act regulations.

13. 40 CFR part 93, Air Quality Conformity and Priority Procedures for use in Federal-aid Highway and Federally-Funded Transit Programs.

14. 23 CFR part 771, Environmental Impact and Related Procedures.

15. 23 CFR part 772, Procedures for Abatement of Highway Traffic Noises and Construction Noises.

16. 23 CFR part 777, Mitigation of Impacts To Wetlands and Natural Habitat.

17. 36 CFR part 800, Protection of Historic Properties.

18. 40 CFR parts 260-271, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulations.

19. Applicable Tribal/State laws.

20. Other applicable Federal laws and regulations.
