
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Probate
#### PART 17 - ACTION ON WILLS OF OSAGE INDIANS
##### ยง 17.3 Pleadings, notice and hearings.

(a) The petition for approval of the will of a deceased Osage Indian may be set down for hearing at a date not less than 30 days from the date the petition is filed. Hearings shall be conducted only after notice of the time and place of such hearings shall have been given by mail. The notice shall be mailed not less than 10 days preceding the date of the hearing and shall state that the special attorney will, at the time and place specified therein, take testimony to determine whether the will of the deceased Osage Indian shall be approved or disapproved. The notice shall list the presumptive heirs of the decedent and the beneficiaries under such will, and shall notify the attesting witnesses to be present and testify. It shall state that all persons interested in the estate of the decedent may be present at the hearing. The notice shall further state that the special attorney may, in his discretion, continue the hearing to another time or place to be announced at the original hearing.

(b) Any interested party desiring to contest approval of the will may, not less than 5 days before the date set for hearing, file written objections in triplicate, showing that a copy thereof was served upon attorneys for the proponent and other attorneys of record in the case. Such contestant shall clearly state the interest he takes under the will and, if a presumptive heir, the interest he would take under the Oklahoma law. The contestant shall further state specifically the ground on which his contest is based.
