
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 211 - LEASING OF TRIBAL LANDS FOR MINERAL DEVELOPMENT
##### Subpart C - Rents, Royalties, Cancellations and Appeals
###### ยง 211.55 Penalties.

(a) In addition to or in lieu of cancellation under ยง 211.54, violations of the terms and conditions of any lease, or the regulations in this part, or failure to comply with a notice of noncompliance or a cessation order issued by the Secretary, or, in the case of solid minerals the authorized officer, may subject a lessee or permittee to a penalty of not more than $1,882 per day for each day that such a violation or noncompliance continues beyond the time limits prescribed for corrective action.

(b) A notice of a proposed penalty shall be served on the lessee or permittee either personally or by certified mail to the lessee or permittee at the lessee's or permittee's last known address. The date of service by certified mail shall be deemed to be the date when received or five (5) working days after the date mailed, whichever is earlier.

(c) The notice shall specify the nature of the violation and the proposed penalty, and shall specifically advise the lessee or permittee of the lessee's or permittee's right to either request a hearing within thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice or pay the proposed penalty. Hearings shall be held before the superintendent and/or area director whose findings shall be conclusive, unless an appeal is taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.

(d) If the lessee or permittee served with a notice of proposed penalty requests a hearing, penalties shall accrue each day the violations or noncompliance set forth in the notice continue beyond the time limits prescribed for corrective action. The Secretary may issue a written suspension of the requirement to correct the violations pending completion of the hearings provided by this section only upon a determination, at the discretion of the Secretary, that such a suspension will not be detrimental to the lessor and upon submission and acceptance of a bond deemed adequate to indemnify the lessor from loss or damage. The amount of the bond must be sufficient to cover the cost of correcting the violations set forth in the notice or any disputed amounts plus accrued penalties and interest.

(e) Payment in full of penalties more than ten (10) days after a final decision imposing a penalty shall subject the lessee or permittee to late payment charges. Late payment charges shall be calculated on the basis of a percentage assessment rate of the amount unpaid per month for each month or fraction thereof until payment is received by the Secretary. In the absence of a specific lease provision prescribing a different rate, the interest rate on late payments and underpayments shall be a rate applicable under ยง 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. Interest shall be charged only on the amount of payment not received and only for the number of days the payment is late.

(f) None of the provisions of this section shall be interpreted as:

(1) Replacing or superseding the independent authority of the authorized officer, the director's representative or the MMS official to impose penalties for violations of applicable regulations pursuant to 43 CFR part 3160, and 43 CFR Groups 3400 and 3500, 30 CFR part 750, or 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C;

(2) Replacing or superseding any penalty provision in the terms and conditions of a lease or permit approved by the Secretary pursuant to this part; or

(3) Authorizing the imposition of a penalty for violations of lease or permit terms for which the authorized officer, director's representative or MMS official, have either statutory or regulatory authority to assess a penalty.
