
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 213 - LEASING OF RESTRICTED LANDS OF MEMBERS OF FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES, OKLAHOMA, FOR MINING
##### Rents and Royalties
###### ยง 213.29 Division orders.

(a) Lessees may make arrangements with the purchasers of oil and gas for the payment of the royalties as provided for in the lease and the regulations but such arrangement, if made, shall not operate to relieve a lessee from responsibility should the purchaser fail or refuse to pay royalties when due. Where lessees avail themselves of this privilege, division orders should be executed by the lessee and forwarded to the supervisor for approval. Purchasers may be authorized by the supervisor to reimburse lessees out of royalties for advance rents and advance royalties. Copies of written instructions, notices, modifications, revocations, and authorizations, as provided for in ยง 213.18 (a) and (b), shall be furnished to purchasers. The right is reserved for the supervisor to cancel a division order at any time or require the purchaser to discontinue to run the oil of any lessee who fails to operate the lease properly or otherwise violates the provisions of the lease, of the regulations in this part, or of the operating regulations.

(b) When oil is taken by authority of a division order, the lessee or his representatives shall be actually present when the oil is gauged and records are made of the temperature, gravity, and impurities. The lessee will be held responsible for the correctness and the correct recording and reporting of all the foregoing measurements, which, except lowest gauge, shall be made at the time the oil is turned into the pipeline. Failure of the lessee to perform properly these duties will subject the division order to revocation.
