
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 216 - SURFACE EXPLORATION, MINING, AND RECLAMATION OF LANDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 216.8 Performance bond.

(a) Upon approval of an exploration plan or mining plan, the operator shall be required to file a suitable performance bond of not less than $2,000 with satisfactory surety, payable to the Secretary of the Interior, and the bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful compliance with applicable regulations, the terms and conditions of the permit, lease, or contract, and the exploration or mining plan as approved, amended or supplemented. The bond shall be in an amount sufficient to satisfy the reclamation requirements established pursuant to an approved exploration or mining plan, or an approved partial or supplemental plan. In determining the amount of the bond consideration shall be given to the character and nature of the reclamation requirements and the estimated costs of reclamation in the event that the operator forfeits his performance bond. In lieu of a surety bond an operator may elect to deposit cash or negotiable bonds of the U.S. government. The cash deposit or the market value of such securities shall be equal at least to the required sum of the bond.

(b) In a particular instance where the circumstances are such as to warrant an exception, the amount of the bond for a particular operation may be reduced to less than the required minimum of $2,000.

(c) The superintendent shall set the amount of a bond and take the necessary action for an increase or for a complete or partial release of a bond. He shall take action with respect to bonds for leases or permits only after consultation with the mining supervisor.
