
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 216 - SURFACE EXPLORATION, MINING, AND RECLAMATION OF LANDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 216.9 Reports.

(a) Within 30 days after the end of each calendar year, or if operations cease before the end of a calendar year, within 30 days after the cessation of operations, the operator shall submit an operations report to the mining supervisor containing the following information:

(1) An identification of the permit or lease and the location of the operation.

(2) A description of the operations performed during the period of time for which the report is filed.

(3) An identification of the area of land affected by the operations and a description of the manner in which the land has been affected.

(4) A statement as to the number of acres disturbed by the operations and the number of acres which were reclaimed during the period of time.

(5) A description of the method utilized for reclamation and the results thereof.

(6) A statement and description of reclamation work remaining to be done.

(b) Upon completion of such grading and backfilling as may be required by an approved exploration or mining plan, the operator shall make a report thereon to the mining supervisor and request inspection for approval. Whenever it is determined by such inspection that backfilling and grading have been carried out in accordance with the established requirements and approved exploration or mining plan, the superintendent shall issue a release of an appropriate amount of the performance bond for the area graded and backfilled. Appropriate amounts of the bond shall be retained to assure that satisfactory planting, if required, is carried out.

(c)(1) Whenever planting is required by an approved exploration or mining plan, the operator shall file a report with the superintendent whenever such planting is completed. The report shall-

(i) Identify the permit or lease;

(ii) Show the type of planting or seeding, including mixtures and amounts;

(iii) Show the date of planting or seeding;

(iv) Identify or describe the areas of the lands which have been planted;

(v) Contain such other information as may be relevant.

(2) The superintendent, as soon as possible after the completion of the first full growing season, shall make an inspection and evaluation of the vegetative cover and planting to determine if a satisfactory growth has been established.

(3) If it is determined that a satisfactory vegetative cover has been established and is likely to continue to grow, any remaining portion of the surety bond may be released if all requirements have been met by the operator.

(d)(1) Not less than 30 days prior to cessation or abandonment of operations, the operator shall report to the mining supervisor his intention to cease or abandon operations, together with a statement of the exact number of acres of land affected by his operations, the extent of reclamation accomplished and other relevant information.

(2) Upon receipt of such report an inspection shall be made to determine whether operations have been carried out in accordance with the approved exploration or mining plan.
