
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 224 - TRIBAL ENERGY RESOURCE AGREEMENTS UNDER THE INDIAN TRIBAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AND SELF DETERMINATION ACT
##### Subpart F - Periodic Reviews
###### ยง 224.132 How does the Secretary conduct a periodic review and evaluation?

(a) The Secretary will conduct a periodic review and evaluation under the TERA, in consultation with the Tribe, and in cooperation with other Departmental bureaus and offices whose activities the Tribe assumed or that perform activities for the Tribe.

(b) The Secretary will communicate with the Designated Tribal Official throughout the process established by this section.

(c) During the periodic review and evaluation, the Secretary will:

(1) Review relevant records and documents, including transactions and reports the Tribe prepares under the TERA;

(2) Conduct on-site inspections as appropriate; and

(3) Review compliance with statutes and regulations applicable to activities undertaken under the TERA.

(d) Review the effect on physical trust assets resulting from activities undertaken under a TERA.

(e) Upon written request, the Tribe should provide the Secretary with records and documents relevant to the provisions of the TERA. In addition, the Tribe should identify any information in these submitted records and documents that is confidential, commercial and financial. Specific exceptions to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, or other statutory protections against disclosure, may apply and preclude disclosure of this information to third parties as provided for in ยง 224.55.
