
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 225 - OIL AND GAS, GEOTHERMAL, AND SOLID MINERALS AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart B - Minerals Agreements
###### ยง 225.36 Minerals agreement cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.

(a) If the Secretary determines that an operator has failed to comply with the regulations in this part; other applicable laws or regulations; the terms of the minerals agreement; the requirements of an approved exploration, drilling or mining plan; Secretarial orders; or the orders of the Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, or the MMS Official, the Secretary may:

(1) Serve a notice of noncompliance; or

(2) Serve a notice of proposed cancellation.

(b) The notice of noncompliance shall specify in what respect the operator has failed to comply with the requirements referenced in paragraph (a), and shall specify what actions, if any, must be taken to correct the noncompliance.

(c) The notice of proposed cancellation shall set forth the reasons why cancellation is proposed.

(d) The notice of proposed cancellation or noncompliance shall be served upon the operator by delivery in person or by certified mail to the operator at the operator's last known address. When certified mail is used, the date of service shall be deemed to be when received or five (5) working days after the date it is mailed, whichever is earlier.

(e) The operator shall have thirty (30) days (or such longer time as specified in the notice) from the date that the Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of proposed cancellation or noncompliance is served to respond, in writing, to the Superintendent or Area Director actually issuing the notice.

(f) If an operator fails to take any action that may be prescribed in the notice of proposed cancellation, fails to file a timely written response to the notice, or files a written response that does not, in the discretion of the Secretary, adequately justify the operator's failure to comply, then the Secretary may cancel the minerals agreement, specifying the basis for the cancellation. Cancellation of a minerals agreement shall not relieve the operator of any continuing obligation under the minerals agreement.

(g) If an operator fails to take corrective action or to file a timely written response adequately justifying the operator's actions pursuant to a notice of noncompliance, the Secretary may issue an order of cessation. If the operator fails to comply with the order of cessation, or fails to timely file an appeal of the order of cessation pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section, the Secretary may issue an order of minerals agreement cancellation.

(h) This section does not limit any other remedies of the Indian mineral owner as set forth in the minerals agreement.

(i) Nothing in this section is intended to limit the authority of the Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, or the MMS Official to take any enforcement action authorized pursuant to statute or regulation.

(j) The Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, the MMS Official, and the Superintendent or Area Director should consult with one another before taking any enforcement actions.

(k) If orders of cessation or minerals agreement cancellation issued pursuant to this section are issued by a designee of the Secretary other than the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, the orders may be appealed under 25 CFR part 2. If the orders are issued by the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, and not one of their delegates or subordinates, the orders are the final orders of the Department.
