
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
#####***Leasing Procedure, Rental and Royalty***
###### ยง 226.2 Sale of leases.

(a) Written application, together with any nomination fee, for tracts to be offered for lease shall be filed with the Superintendent.

(b) The Superintendent, with the consent of the Osage Tribal Council, shall publish notices for the sale of oil leases, gas leases, and oil and gas leases to the highest responsible bidder on specific tracts of the unleased Osage Mineral Estate. The Superintendent may require any bidder to submit satisfactory evidence of his good faith and ability to comply with all provisions of the notice of sale. Successful bidders must deposit with the Superintendent on day of sale a check or cash in an amount not less than 25 percent of the cash bonus offered as a guaranty of good faith. Any and all bids shall be subject to the acceptance of the Osage Tribal Council and approval of the Superintendent. Within 20 days after notification of being the successful bidder, and said bidder must submit to the Superintendent the balance of the cash bonus, a $10 filing fee, and the lease in completed form. The Superintendent may extend the time for the completion and submission of the lease form, but no extension shall be granted for remitting the balance of moneys due. If the bidder fails to pay the full cash consideration within said period or fails to file the completed lease within said period or extention thereof, or if the lease is rejected through no fault of the Osage Tribal Council or the Superintendent, 25 percent of the cash bonus bid will be forfeited for the use and benefits of the Osage Tribe. The Superintendent may reject a lease made on an accepted bid, upon evidence satisfactory to him of collusion, fraud, or other irregularity in connection with the notice of sale. The Superintendent may approve oil leases, gas leases, and oil and gas leases made by the Osage Tribal Council in conformity with the notice of sale, regulations in this part, bonds, and other instruments required.

(c) Each oil and/or gas lease and activities and installations associated therewith subject to these regulations shall be assessed and evaluated for its environmental impact prior to its approval by the Superintendent.

(d) Lessee shall accept a lease with the understanding that a mineral not covered by his lease may be leased separately.

(e) No lease, assignment thereof, or interest therein will be approved to any employee or employees of the Government and no such employee shall be permitted to acquire any interest in leases covering the Osage Mineral Estate by ownership of stock in corporations having leases or in any other manner.

(f) The Osage Tribal Council may utilize the following procedures among others, in entering into a mining lease. A contract may be entered into through competitive bidding as outlined in ยง 226.2(b), negotiation, or a combination of both. The Osage Tribal Council may also request the Superintendent to undertake the preparation, advertisement and negotiation. The Superintendent may approve any such contract made by the Osage Tribal Council.
