
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
#####***Leasing Procedure, Rental and Royalty***
###### ยง 226.9 Rental and drilling obligations.
####### Provided,,Provided further,

(a) Oil leases, gas leases, and combination oil and gas leases. Unless Lessee shall complete and place on production a well producing and selling oil and/or gas in paying quantities on the land embraced within the lease within 12 months from the date of approval of the lease, or as otherwise provided in the lease terms, or 12 months from the date the Superintendent consents to drilling on any restricted homestead selection, the lease shall terminate unless rental at the rate of not less than $1 per acre for an oil or gas lease, or not less than $2.00 per acre for a combination oil and gas lease, shall be paid before the end of the first year of the lease. The lease may also be held for the remainder of its primary term without drilling upon payment of the specified rental annually in advance, commencing with the second lease year. The lease shall terminate as of the due date of the rental unless such rental shall be received by the Superintendent, or shall have been mailed as indicated by postmark on or before said date. The completion of a well producing in paying quantities shall, for so long as such production continues, relieve Lessee from any further payment of rental, except that should such production cease during the primary term the lease may be continued only during the remaining primary term of the lease by payment of advance rental which shall commence on the next anniversary date of the lease. Rental shall be paid on the basis of a full year and no refund will be made of advance rental paid in compliance with the regulations in this part:That the Superintendent in his discretion may order further development of any leased acreage or separate horizon if, in his opinion, a prudent operator would conduct further development. If Lessee refuses to comply, the refusal will be considered a violation of the lease terms and said lease shall be subject to cancellation as to the acreage or horizon the further development of which was ordered:That the Superintendent may impose restrictions as to time of drilling and rate of production from any well or wells when in his judgment, such action may be necessary or proper for the protection of the natural resources of the leased land and the interests of the Osage Tribe. The superintendent may consider, among other things, Federal and Oklahoma laws regulating either drilling or production. If a lessee holds both an oil lease and a gas lease covering the same acreage, such lessee is subject to the provisions of this section as to both the oil lease and the gas lease.

(b) The Superintendent may, with the consent of and under terms approved by the Osage Tribal Council, grant an extension of the primary term of a lease on which the actual drilling of a well shall have commenced within the term thereof or for the purpose of enabling Lessee to obtain a market for his oil and/or gas production.
