
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
#####***Leasing Procedure, Rental and Royalty***
###### ยง 226.15 Unit leases, assignments and related instruments.
####### Assignments.,Provided,

(b)Approved leases or any interest therein may be assigned or transferred only with the approval of the Superintendent. The assignee must be qualified to hold such lease under existing rules and regulations and shall furnish a satisfactory bond conditioned for the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions thereof. Lessee must assign either his entire interest in a lease or legal subdivision thereof, or an undivided interest in the whole lease:That when an assignment covers only a portion of a lease or covers interests in separate horizons such assignment shall be subject to both the consent of the Osage Tribal Council and approval of the Superintendent. If a lease is divided by the assignment of an entire interest in any part, each part shall be considered a separate lease and the assignee shall be bound to comply with all the terms and conditions of the original lease. A fully executed copy of the assignment shall be filed with the Superintendent within 30 days after the date of execution by all parties. If requested within the 30-day period, the Superintendent may grant an extension of 15 days. A filing fee of $10 shall accompany each assignment.
