
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
#####***Leasing Procedure, Rental and Royalty***
###### ยง 226.15 Unit leases, assignments and related instruments.
####### Overriding royalty.

(c)Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production shall not be considered as an interest in a lease as such term is used in paragraph (b) of this section. Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production are hereby authorized and the approval of the Department of the Interior or any agency thereof shall not be required with respect thereto, but such agreements shall be subject to the condition that nothing in any such agreement shall be construed as modifying any of the obligations of Lessee under his lease and the regulations in this part. All such obligations are to remain in full force and effect, the same as if free of any such royalties or payments. The existence of agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production, whether or not actually paid, shall not be considered in justifying the shutdown or abandonment of any well. Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production need not be filed with the Superintendent unless incorporated in assignments or instruments required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. An agreement creating overriding royalties or payment out of production shall be suspended when the working interest income per active producing well is equal to or less than the operational cost of the well, as determined by the Superintendent.
