
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
##### Operations
###### ยง 226.17 How to acquire permission to begin operations on a restricted homestead allotment.

(a) Lessee may conduct operations within or upon a restricted homestead selection only with the written consent of the Superintendent.

(b) If the allottee is unwilling to permit operations on his homestead, the Superintendent will cause an examination of the premises to be made with the allottee and lessee or his representative. Upon finding that the interests of the Osage Tribe require that the tract be developed, the Superintendent will endeavor to have the parties agree upon the terms under which operations on the homestead may be conducted.

(c) In the event the allottee and lessee cannot reach an agreement, the matter shall be presented by all parties before the Osage Tribal Council, and the Council shall make its recommendations. Such recommendations shall be considered as final and binding upon the allottee and lessee. A guardian may represent the allottee. Where no one is authorized or where no person is deemed by the Superintendent to be a proper party to speak for a person of unsound mind or feeble understanding, the Principal Chief of the Osage Tribe shall represent him.

(d) If the allottee or his representative does not appear before the Osage Tribal Council when notified by the Superintendent, or if the Council fails to act within 10 days after the matter is referred to it, the Superintendent may authorize lessee to proceed with operations in conformity with the provisions of his lease and the regulations in this part.
