
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
##### Cessation of Operations
###### ยง 226.28 Shutdown, abandonment, and plugging of wells.

No productive well shall be abandoned until its lack for further profitable production of oil and/or gas has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. Lessee shall not shut down, abandon, or otherwise discontinue the operation or use of any well for any purpose without the written approval of the Superintendent. All applications for such approval shall be submitted to the Superintendent on forms furnished by him/her.

(a) Application for authority to permanently shut down or discontinue use or operation of a well shall set forth justification, probable duration the means by which the well bore is to be protected, and the contemplated eventual disposition of the well. The method of conditioning such well shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.

(b) Prior to permanent abandonment of any well, the oil lessee or the gas lessee, as the case may be, shall offer the well to the other for his recompletion or use under such terms as may be mutually agreed upon but not in conflict with the regulations. Failure of the Lessee receiving the offer to reply within 10 days after receipt thereof shall be deemed as rejection of the offer. If, after indicating acceptance, the two parties cannot agree on the terms of the offer within 30 days, the disposition of such well shall be determined by the Superintendent.

(c) The Superintendent is authorized to shut in a lease when the lessee fails to comply with the terms of the lease, the regulations, and/or orders of the Superintendent.
