
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
##### Requirements of Lessees
###### ยง 226.32 Well records and reports.

(a) Lessee shall keep accurate and complete records of the drilling, redrilling, deepening, repairing, treating, plugging, or abandonment of all wells. These records shall show all the formations penetrated, the content and character of oil, gas, or water in each formation, and the kind, weight, size, landed depth and cement record of casing used in drilling each well; the record of drill-stem and other bottom hole pressure or fluid sample surveys, temperature surveys, directional surveys, and the like; the materials and procedure used in the treating or plugging of wells or in preparing them for temporary abandonment; and any other information obtained in the course of well operation.

(b) Lessee shall take such samples and make such tests and surveys as may be required by the Superintendent to determine conditions in the well or producing reservoir and to obtain information concerning formations drilled, and shall furnish reports thereof as required by the Superintendent.

(c) Within 10 days after completion of operations on any well, Lessee shall transmit to the Superintendent the applicable information on forms furnished by the Superintendent; a copy of electrical, mechanical or radioactive log, or other types of survey of the well bore; and core analysis obtained from the well. Lessee shall also submit other reports and records of operations as may be required and in the manner and form prescribed by the Superintendent.

(d) Lessee shall measure production of oil, gas, and water from individual wells at reasonably frequent intervals to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.

(e) Upon request and in the manner and form prescribed by the Superintendent, Lessee shall furnish a plat showing the location, designation, and status of all wells on the leased lands, together with such other pertinent information as the Superintendent may require.
