
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter I - Energy and Minerals
#### PART 226 - LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
##### Penalties
###### § 226.43 Penalties for violation of certain operating regulations.

In lieu of the penalties provided under § 226.42, penalties may be imposed by the Superintendent for violation of certain sections of the regulations of this part as follows:

(a) For failure to obtain permission to start operations required by § 226.16(b), $111 per day until permission is obtained.

(b) For failure to file records required by § 226.32, $111 per day until compliance is met.

(c) For failure to mark wells and tank batteries as required by § 226.34, $111 for each well and tank battery.

(d) For failure to construct and maintain pits as required by § 226.22, $111 for each day after operations are commenced on any well until compliance is met.

(e) For failure to comply with § 226.36 regarding valve or other approved controlling device, $223.

(f) For failure to notify Superintendent before drilling, redrilling, deepening, plugging, or abandoning any well, as required by §§ 226.16(c) and 226.25, $446.

(g) For failure to properly care for and dispose of deleterious fluids as provided in § 226.22, $1,117 per day until compliance is met.

(h) For failure to file plugging reports as required by § 226.29 and for failure to file reports as required by § 226.13, $111 per day for each violation until compliance is met.

(i) For failure to perform or start an operation within 5 days after ordered by the Superintendent in writing under authority provided in this part, if said operation is thereafter performed by or through the Superintendent, the actual cost of performance thereof, plus 25 percent.

(j) Lessee or his/her authorized representative is hereby notified that criminal procedures are provided by 18 U.S.C. 1001 for knowingly filing fraudulent reports and information.
