
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter K - Housing
#### PART 256 - HOUSING IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (HIP)
##### Subpart C - Applying for Assistance
###### ยง 256.13 How do I apply for the Housing Improvement Program?

(a) First, obtain an application, BIA Form 6407, from your servicing housing office or the BIA Web site.

(b) Second, complete and sign BIA Form 6407.

(c) Third, submit your completed and signed application to your servicing housing office.

(d) Fourth, furnish to the servicing housing office documentation proving your tribal membership. Examples of acceptable documentation include a copy of your Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB) or a copy of your tribal membership card.

(e) Fifth, provide proof of income from all permanent members of your household.

(1) Submit signed copies of current 1040 tax returns from all permanent members of the household, including W-2s and all other attachments. Submit the Social Security number of the applicant only.

(2) Provide proof of all other income from all permanent members of the household. This includes unearned income such as Social Security, general assistance, retirement, and unemployment benefits.

(3) If you or other household members did not file a tax return, submit a signed notarized statement explaining why you did not.

(f) Sixth, furnish a copy of your annual trust income statement for your Individual Indian Money (IIM) account from your home agency. If you do not have an IIM account, furnish a statement from your home agency to that effect.

(g) Seventh, provide proof of ownership of the residence and land or potential leasehold interest:

(1) For fee property, provide a copy of a fully executed deed, which is available at your local county or parish court house;

(2) For trust property, provide certification of ownership from your home agency;

(3) For tribally owned land, provide a copy of a properly executed tribal assignment, certified by the tribe;

(4) For multi-owner property, provide a copy of a properly executed lease;

(5) For a potential lease, provide proof of ability to acquire an undivided leasehold (that is, you will be the only lessee) for a minimum of 25 years from the date of service; or

(6) For down-payment assistance, provide a description and the location of the house to be purchased, verification of your intent to purchase, and the sale price of the house.

(h) Eighth, if you seek down payment assistance, provide a letter from the institution where you have applied for mortgage financing that specifies:

(1) The down payment amount; and

(2) The closing costs required for you to qualify for the loan.
