
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter L - Heritage Preservation
#### PART 262 - PROTECTION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES
##### ยง 262.8 Custody of archaeological resources.

(a) Archaeological resources excavated or removed from Indian lands, except for human remains of Indians, funerary objects, sacred objects and objects of cultural patrimony, remain the property of the Indian tribe or individual(s) having rights of ownership over such lands. Ownership and right of control over the disposition of the excepted items shall be in accordance with the order of priority provided in the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (Pub. L. 101-601), adapted for the purpose of this rule as follows:

(1) In the case of human remains of Indians and funerary objects, in the lineal descendants of the Indian; or

(2) In any case in which such lineal descendants cannot be ascertained, and in the case of sacred objects and objects of cultural patrimony:

(i) In the Indian tribe on whose tribal lands, or on the individual Indian lands of whose members, such remains or objects are discovered;

(ii) In the Indian tribe recognized as aboriginally occupying the public lands owned or administered by the BIA on which such remains or objects are discovered, if upon notice, that tribe states a claim for those remains or objects; or

(iii) Where it can be so demonstrated by a preponderance of evidence, in the tribe other than that in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section having the strongest cultural relationship with such remains or objects, if, upon notice, that tribe states a claim for those remains or objects.

(iv) The Area Director shall provide the required notice to any Indian tribe identified under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, in writing, within 5 working days after such identification has been documented and confirmed, and shall at the same time submit a copy of the notice for publication in theThis notice shall include a description of the remains or objects; of where, how, and why they were excavated or removed; and of the evidence used to identify the tribe being notified. The remains or objects in question shall be considered the property of the pertinent tribe under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section or, in the case of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, held and administered by the BIA until or unless a claim is stated.

(b) No permit for the excavation or removal of archaeological resources on Indian lands may be issued without the written consent of the Indian landowner(s) either to grant custody of the resources recovered (other than human remains of Indians, funerary objects, sacred objects or objects of cultural patrimony) to a curatorial facility that meets the requirements of 36 CFR part 79 or to allow the permittee a reasonable period of time to hold or have ready access to them at an appropriate location for study. The excepted remains and objects are covered under ยง 262.5(d) of this part which, in general, permits their excavation or removal only when the research objectives and provisions for recovery, recording, and analysis are scientifically appropriate. Written consent to custody by a curatorial facility may include terms and conditions regarding curation (e.g., cleaning, viewing, loaning, studying, etc.), provided these are consistent with 36 CFR part 79.

(1) On lands of Indian tribes, consent must be obtained from the tribe.

(2) On lands of Indian individuals, consent must be obtained from the owner of the land or the owners of a majority of interests therein, except as provided in ยง 262.6.

(3) Where consent is by the owners of a majority of interests, it must, if the archaeological resources are to be retained by or returned after study to the interest holders, designate a representative to receive those resources. Whether and how these are subsequently distributed among themselves is a matter for the interest holders to decide.

(c) The Area Director may, after notifying the tribe (if any) having jurisdiction over such lands and allowing 15 working days for response, decline to issue a permit for lands of Indian individuals if he or she has any verifiable reason to believe that archaeological resources retained by the landowner(s) after being studied will be sold or exchanged other than to the tribe having jurisdiction or to a curatorial facility that meets the requirements of 36 CFR part 79. The basis for decline shall be that excavation or removal of resources under such circumstances would not be in the public interest and would thus be contrary to the purposes of the Act.

(d) The landowner(s) alone may grant custody of archaeological resources (except for human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects and objects of cultural patrimony, which are subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section) excavated or removed from lands of Indian individuals that are under tribal jurisdiction to a curatorial facility that meets the requirements of 36 CFR part 79. When, however, such consignment constitutes the ultimate disposition of these resources, the tribe having jurisdiction must also grant its consent. Any subsequent exchange or disposition by the facility must have the consent of both the landowner(s) and the tribe.
