
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 273 - EDUCATION CONTRACTS UNDER JOHNSON-O'MALLEY ACT
##### Subpart H - General Contract Requirements
###### ยง 273.176 May there be a use and transfer of Government property?

(a) The use of Government-owned facilities for school purposes may be authorized when not needed for Government activities. Transfer of title to such facilities (except land) may be arranged under the provisions of the Act of June 4, 1953 (67 Stat. 41) subject to the approval of the Tribal government if such property is located on a reservation.

(b) In carrying out a contract, the BIE Director may, with the approval of the Tribal government, permit a contractor to use existing buildings, facilities, and related equipment and other personal property owned by the Bureau within its jurisdiction under terms and conditions agreed upon for their use and maintenance. The property at the time of transfer must conform to the minimum standards established by the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1590), as amended (29 U.S.C. 651). Use of Government property is subject to the following conditions:

(1) When nonexpendable Government property is turned over to public school authorities or Indian corporations under a use permit, the permittee must insure such property against damage by flood, fire, rain, windstorm, vandalism, snow, and tornado in amounts and with companies satisfactory to the Federal officer in charge of the property. In case of damage or destruction of the property by flood, fire, rain, windstorm, vandalism, snow, or tornado, the insurance money collected may be expended only for repair or replacement of property. Otherwise, insurance proceeds must be paid to the Bureau.

(2) If the public school authority is self-insured and can present evidence of that fact to the BIE Director, insurance for lost or damaged property will not be required. However, the public school authority will be responsible for replacement of such lost or damaged property at no cost to the Government or for paying the Government enough to replace the property.

(3) The permittee will maintain the property in a reasonable state of repair consistent with the intended use and educational purposes.

(c) The contractor may have access to existing Bureau records needed to carry out a contract under this part, as follows:

(1) The Bureau will make the records available subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), as amended by the Act of November 21, 1974 (Pub. L. 93-502, 88 Stat. 1561).

(2) The contractor may have access to needed Bureau records at the appropriate Bureau office for review and making copies of selected records.

(3) If the contractor needs a small volume of identifiable Bureau records, the Bureau will furnish the copies to the contractor.
