
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 273 - EDUCATION CONTRACTS UNDER JOHNSON-O'MALLEY ACT
##### Subpart H - General Contract Requirements
###### ยง 273.179 Are there contract audit and inspection requirements?

(a) During the term of a contract and for three (3) years after the project or undertaking is completed, the BIE Director, or any duly authorized representative, must have access, for audit and examination purposes, to any of the contractor's books, documents, papers, and records that, in the BIE Director's or representative's opinion, may be related or pertinent to the contract or any subcontract.

(b) The contractor is responsible for maintaining invoices, purchase orders, canceled checks, balance sheets and all other documents relating to financial transactions in a manner that will facilitate auditing. The contractor is responsible for maintaining files of correspondence and other documents relating to the administration of the contract, properly separated from general records or cross-referenced to general files.

(c) The contractor receiving funds is responsible for contract compliance.

(d) The records involved in any claim or expenditure that has been questioned must be further maintained until a final determination is made on the questioned expenditures.

(e) The contractor and local school officials must make available to each member of the Indian Education Committee and to members of the public upon request: all contracts, non-confidential records concerning students served by the program, reports, budgets, budget estimates, plans, and other documents pertaining to administration of the contract program in the preceding and current years. The contractor or local school official must provide, free of charge, single copies of such documents upon request.
