
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 273 - EDUCATION CONTRACTS UNDER JOHNSON-O'MALLEY ACT
##### Subpart H - General Contract Requirements
###### ยง 273.180 Are there disclosure requirements for contracts?

(a) Unless otherwise required by law, the Bureau may not place restrictions on contractors that will limit public access to the contractor's records except when records must remain confidential.

(b) A contractor must make all reports and information concerning the contract available to the Indian people that the contract affects. Reports and information may be withheld from disclosure only when both of the following conditions exist:

(1) The reports and information fall within one of the following exempt categories:

(i) Specifically required by statute or Executive Order to be kept secret;

(ii) Commercial or financial information obtained from a person or firm on a privileged or confidential basis; or

(iii) Personnel, medical, social, psychological, academic achievement and similar files where disclosure would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; and

(2) Disclosure is prohibited by statute or Executive Order or sound grounds exist for using the exemption given in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) A request to inspect or copy reports and information must be in writing and reasonably describe the reports and information requested. The request may be delivered or mailed to the contractor. Within 10 working days after receiving the request, the contractor must determine whether to grant or deny the request and immediately notify the request of the determination.

(d) The time limit for making a determination may be extended up to an additional 10 working days for good reason. The requester must be notified in writing of the extension, reasons for the extension, and date on which the determination is expected to be made.
