
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 275 - STAFFING
##### ยง 275.3 Methods for staffing.

(a) An Indian tribal organization may use any of the following three methods to employ or obtain the services of Bureau employees:

(1) Agreement in accordance with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (5 U.S.C. 3371-3376). The agreement may be arranged between the tribal organization, the employee, and the Area Director or Commissioner. Assistance will be provided by the Area Personnel Office in complying with Civil Service instructions (Federal Personnel Manual, chapter 334) for completing an agreement.

(2) Employment of Bureau employees on or before December 31, 1985, when serving under an appointment not limited to one year or less. A mutual agreement will be made between a tribal organization and the employee before leaving Federal employment to retain coverage for any of the following Federal benefits:

(i) Compensation for work injuries.

(ii) Retirement.

(iii) Health insurance.

(iv) Life insurance.

(3) An agreement by an Indian tribe in accordance with the 1834 Act (25 U.S.C. 48) may be made in connection with contracts under section 102 of the Act.

(i) The agreement may provide for the tribal government to direct the day-to-day activities of Bureau employees. Tribal government direction of Bureau employees means the tribal chairman or other tribal official, as designated by the tribal governing body, is responsible for the planning, coordination, and completion of the daily on-the-job assignments of Bureau employees. The daily assignments of each such Bureau employee are limited to those that fall within the general range of duties prescribed in the employee's Bureau position.

(ii) The agreement to direct day-to-day activities of Bureau employees shall include all employees:

(A) Whose positions are in the program or portion of the program to be contracted; or

(B) In a portion of the program to continue under Bureau operation in connection with a contract for other portions of the program.

(iii) The proposed agreement will be worked out between the tribe, the Superintendent, and the Area Director and forwarded to the Commissioner for final approval.

(b) When a contract application under part 900 of this chapter does not include a proposed agreement for direction of Bureau employees, the application must be submitted at least 120 days in advance of the proposed effective date of the contract to allow time for placement of affected employees.
