
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.4 Bondings and insurance.

In administering Bureau grants, grantees shall observe their regular requirements and practices with respect to bonding and insurance. The Bureau will not impose additional bonding and insurance requirements, including fidelity bonds, except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) The recipient of a Bureau grant which requires contracting for construction or facility improvement (including any Bureau grant which provides for alterations or renovations of real property) shall follow its own requirements and practices relating to bid guarantees, performance bonds, and payment bonds except for contracts exceeding $100,000. For contracts exceeding $100,000, the minimum requirements shall be as follows:

(1) A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the bid price. The bid guarantee shall consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of his bid, execute such contractual documents as may be required within the time specified.

(2) A performance bond on the part of the contractor for 100 percent of the contract price. A performance bond is one executed in connection with a contract to secure fulfillment of all the contractor's obligations under the contract.

(3) A payment bond on the part of the contractor for 100 per cent of the contract price. A payment bond is one executed in connection with a contract to assure payment as required by law of all persons supplying labor and material in the execution of the work provided for in the contract.

(b) Where, in connection with a Bureau grant, the Bureau also guarantees the payment of money borrowed by the grantee, the Bureau may at its discretion require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the grantee are not deemed to be sufficient to protect adequately the interests of the Federal Government.
