
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.7 Standards for grantee financial management systems.

(a) Grantee financial management systems for grants and subgrantee financial management systems for subgrants shall provide for:

(1) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant program in accordance with Federal reporting requirements and for each subgrant in accordance with the grantees' requirements. Except when specifically required by law, the Bureau wll not require financial reporting on the accrual basis from tribal organizations whose records are not maintained on that basis. However, when accrual reporting is required by law, tribal organizations whose records are not maintained on that basis will not be required to convert their accounting systems to the accrual basis; they may develop the accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand or on the basis of best estimates.

(2) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-or subgrant-supported activities. These records shall contain information pertaining to grant or subgrant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.

(3) Effective control over and accountability for all grant or subgrant funds, and real and personal property acquired with grant or subgrant funds. Grantees and subgrantees shall adequately safeguard all such property and shall assure that it is used solely for authorized purposes.

(4) Comparison of actual with budgeted amounts for each grant or subgrant, and, when specifically required by the performance reporting requirements of the grant or subgrant, relation of financial information with performance or productivity data, including the production of unit cost information.

(5) Procedures to minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the U.S. Treasury and the disbursement by the grantee, whenever funds are advanced by the Federal Government. When advances are made by a letter-of-credit method, the grantees shall make drawdowns from the U.S. Treasury as close as possible to the time of making the disbursements. Subgrantees shall institute similar procedures when funds are advanced by the grantee.

(6) Procedures for determining the allowability and allocability of costs shall be in accordance with the applicable cost principles prescribed in appendix A of this part.

(7) Accounting records which are supported by source documentation.

(8) A systematic method to assure timely and appropriate resolution of audit findings and recommendations.

(b) Grantees shall require subgrantees (recipients of grants which are passed through by the grantee) to adopt all of the standards in paragraph (a) of this section.
