
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.9 Monitoring and reporting program performances.

(a) Grantees shall constantly monitor the performance under grant-supported activities to assure that adequate progress is being made toward achieving the goals of the grant. This review shall be made for each program, function, or activity of each grant as set forth in the approved grant application.

(b) Grantees shall submit a performance report for each grant which briefly presents the following for each program, function, or activity involved:

(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the goals established for the period. Where the output of grant programs can be readily quantified, such quantitative data should be related to cost data for computation of unit costs.

(2) Reasons for slippage in those cases were established goals were not met.

(3) Other pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs.

(c) Grantees shall submit the performance reports to the Bureau with the Financial Status Reports (prescribed in appendix B of this part) in the frequency established by appendix B. The Bureau shall prescribe the frequency with which the performance reports will be submitted with the Request for Advance or Reimbursement (prescribed in appendix B) when that form is used in lieu of the Financial Status Report. In no case shall the performance reports be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually.

(d) Between the required performance reporting dates, events may occur which have significant impact upon the project or program. In such cases, the grantee shall inform the Bureau as soon as the following types of conditions become known:

(1) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect the ability to attain program objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules and goals, or preclude the attainment of project work units by established time periods. This disclosure shall be accomplished by a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any Bureau assistance needed to resolve the situation.

(2) Favorable developments or events which enable meeting time schedules and goals sooner than anticipated or producing more work units than originally projected.

(e) If any performance review conducted by the grantee discloses the need for change in the budget estimates in accordance with the criteria established in ยง 276.14, the grantee shall submit a request for budget revision.

(f) The bureau shall make site visits as frequently as practicable to:

(1) Review program accomplishments and management control systems.

(2) Provide such technical assistance as may be required, or requested.
