
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.10 Grant payment requirements.

(a) Except for construction grants for which the letter-of-credit method is optional, the letter-of-credit funding method shall be used by the Bureau where all of the following conditions exist:

(1) When there is or will be a continuing relationship between a grantee and the Bureau for at least a 12-month period and the total amount of advances to be received within that period from the Bureau is $120,000, or more, as prescribed by Treasury Circular No. 1075.

(2) When the grantee has established or demonstrated to the Bureau the willingness and ability to establish procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and their disbursement by the grantee.

(3) When the grantee's financial management system meets the standards for fund control and accountability prescribed in ยง 276.7.

(b) The method of advancing funds by Treasury check shall be used, in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Circular No. 1075, when the grantee meets all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.

(c) The reimbursement by Treasury check method shall be the preferred method when the grantee does not meet the requirements specified in either paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3), or both. This method may also be used when the major portion of the program is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and when the Bureau grant assistance constitutes a minor portion of the program.

(d) Unless otherwise required by law, the Bureau shall not withhold payments for proper charges made by grantees at any time during the grant period unless:

(1) A grantee has failed to comply with the program objectives, grant award conditions, or Bureau reporting requirements; or

(2) The grantee is indebted to the United States and collection of the indebtedness will not impair accomplishment of the objectives of any grant program sponsored by the United States. Under such conditions, the Bureau may, upon reasonable notice, inform the grantee that payments will not be made for obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the indebtedness to the Federal Government is liquidated.

(e) Appendix B of this part provides the procedures for requesting advances or reimbursements.
