
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.11 Property management standards.

(a) Grantees may follow their own property management policies and procedures if they observe the requirements of this section. With respect to property covered by this section, the Bureau may not impose on grantees any requirements (including property reporting requirements)-not authorized by this part unless specifically required by Federal law.

(b) Title to real property to be acquired in whole or in part from a Bureau grant under part 900 of this chapter shall vest in one of the following manners:

(1) Title may be taken by the United States in trust for the Indian tribe upon the request of the tribe and when the real property to be acquired is within the reservation boundaries or adjoins on at least two sides other trust or restricted lands as prescribed in part 900 of this chapter.

(2) Fee title to the acquired real property shall vest in the Indian tribe whenever the acquisition does not meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless for other reasons a tribe requests title to be taken in the name of the United States. In the absence of applicable statutory authority governing the disposition of real property acquired by a tribe, the tribe shall use the real property for the authorized purposes and in accordance with any other requirements imposed by the terms and conditions of the original grant. Changes in use compatible to other tribal programs may be authorized by the Bureau. When no longer needed for the authorized purposes, the real property shall be used in accordance with the standards set forth in ยง 276.11(d)(1) for non-expendable personal property. Accordingly, the following priority order for use of such property shall be:

(i) Other grants from the Bureau.

(ii) Grants from other Federal agencies.

(iii) Tribal purposes consistent with those authorized for support by Bureau grants.

(iv) Tribal official activities.

(3) In those instances where the Indian tribe requests, title may be acquired by the United States. Use of these acquired real property interests will be subject to the authorized purposes and in accordance with the provisions of the original grant. Upon a determination that the real property is no longer needed for the authorized purposes, disposition may be made by declaring it excess under provisions of the Act of January 2, 1975 (88 Stat. 1954) and title transferred to the Secretary to be held by the United States in trust for the tribe. Where real property does not meet the requirements under the Act of January 2, 1975 (88 Stat. 1954), the tribe may elect to acquire title under applicable enabling statutory authorities, or in the absence of statutory authority, request withholding disposition in aid of legislation, or authorize disposal under the General Services Administration procedures.

(c) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall also apply when real property is acquired in whole or in part by a Bureau grant other than that provided under part 900 of this chapter. However, when such property is acquired by a grantee other than an Indian tribe, or a tribal governing body, fee simple title to the property shall vest in the grantee upon acquisition. In the absence of applicable statutory provisions governing the use or disposition of such property, it shall be subject to the following requirments, in addition to any other requirements imposed by the terms and conditions of the grant:

(1) The grantee shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the original grant as long as needed.

(2) The grantee shall obtain approval by the Bureau for the use of the real property in other projects when the grantee determines that the property is no longer needed for the original grant purposes. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under other Federal grant programs, or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the grantor.

(3) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, the grantee shall return all real property furnished or purchased wholly with Bureau grant funds to the control of the Bureau. In the case of property purchased in part with Bureau grant funds, the grantee may be permitted to take title to the Federal interest therein upon compensating the Federal Government for its fair share of the property. The Federal share of the property shall be the amount computed by applying the percentage of the Federal participation in the total cost of the grant program for which the property was acquired to the current fair market value of the property.

(d) Standards and procedures governing ownership, use, and disposition of nonexpendable personal property furnished by the Bureau or acquired with Bureau funds are set forth below:
