
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.11 Property management standards.
###### Nonexpendable personal property acquired with Bureau funds.

(1)When nonexpendable personal property is acquired by a grantee wholly or in part with Bureau funds, title will not be taken by the Bureau except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section but shall be vested in the grantee subject to the following restrictions on use and disposition of the property:

(i) The grantee shall retain the property acquired with Bureau funds in the grant program as long as there is a need for the property to accomplish the purpose of the grant program whether or not the program continues to be supported by Bureau funds. When there is no longer a need for the property to accomplish the purpose of the grant program, the grantee shall use the property in connection with the other Federal grants it has received in the following order of priority:

(A) Other grants from the Bureau needing the property.

(B) Grants of other Federal agencies needing the property.

(ii) When the grantee no longer has need for the property in any of its Federal grant programs, or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the grantor, the property may be used for its own official activities in accordance with the following standards:

(A) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of less than $500 and used four years or more. The grantee may use the property for its own official activities without reimbursement to the Federal government or sell the property and retain the proceeds.

(B) All other nonexpendable property. The grantee may retain the property for its own use if a fair compensation is made to the Bureau for the latter's share of the property. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Bureau participation in the grant program to the current fair market value of the property.

(iii) If the grantee has no need for the property, disposition of the property shall be made as follows:

(A) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or less. Except for that property which meets the criteria of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the grantee shall sell the property and reimburse the Bureau an amount which is computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.

(B) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of over $1,000. The grantee shall request disposition instructions from the Bureau. The Bureau shall determine whether the property can be used to meet the Bureau's requirement. If no requirement exists within the Bureau, the availability of the property shall be reported to the General Services Administration (GSA) by the Bureau to determine whether a requirement for the property exists in other Federal agencies. The Bureau shall issue instructions to the grantee within 120 days and the following procedures shall govern:
