
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.11 Property management standards.
###### 3

() If disposition instructions are not issued within 120 days after reporting, the grantee shall sell the property and reimburse the Bureau and amount which is computed by applying the percentage of Bureau participation in the grant program to the sales proceeds. Further, the grantee shall be permitted to retain $100 or 10 percent of the proceeds, whichever is greater, for the grantee's selling and handling expenses.

(iv) Where the Bureau determines that property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or more and financed solely with Bureau funds is unique, different, or costly to replace, it may reserve title to such property, subject to the following provisions:

(A) The property shall be appropriately identified in the grant agreement or otherwise made known to the grantee.

(B) The Bureau shall issue disposition instructions within 120 days after the completion of the need for the property under the grant for which it was acquired. If the Bureau fails to issue disposition instructions within 120 days, the grantee shall apply the standards of paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii)(B), and (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.

(2) Federally owned nonexpendable personal property. Unless statutory authority to transfer title has been granted to an agency, title to Federally owned property (property to which the Federal Government retains title including excess property made available by the Bureau to grantees) remains vested by law in the Federal Government. Upon termination of the grant or need for the property, such property shall be reported to the Bureau for further Bureau use or, if appropriate, for reporting to the General Services Administration for other Federal agency use. Appropriate disposition instructions will be issued to the grantee after completion of Bureau review.

(e) The grantee's property management standards for nonexpendable personal property shall also include the following procedural requirements:

(1) Property records shall be maintained accurately and provide for a description of the property; manufacturer's serial number or other identification number; acquisition date and cost; source of the property; percentage of Federal funds used in the purchase of property; location, use, and condition of the property; and ultimate disposition data including sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value if the grantee reimburses the bureau for its share.

(2) A physical inventory of property shall be taken and the results reconciled with the property records at least once every two years to verify the existence, current use, and continued need for the property.

(3) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft to the property. Any loss, damage, or theft of nonexpendable property shall be investigated and fully documented.

(4) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition.

(5) Proper sales procedures shall be established for unneeded property which would provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.

(f) When the total inventory value of any unused expendable personal property exceeds $500 at the expiration of need for any grant purposes, the grantee may retain the property or sell the property as long as he compensates the Bureau for its share in the cost. The amount of compensation shall be computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.

(g) Specific standards for control of intangible property are provided as follows:

(1) If any program produces patentable items, patent rights, processes, or inventions, in the course of work aided by a Bureau grant, such fact shall be promptly and fully reported to the Bureau. Unless there is prior agreement between the grantee and Bureau on disposition of such items, the Bureau shall determine whether protection on such invention or discovery shall be sought and how the rights in the invention or discovery-including rights under any patent issued on it-shall be allocated and administered in order to protect the public interest consistent with "Government Patent Policy" (President's memorandum for heads of executive departments and agencies), dated August 23, 1971, and Statement of Government Patent Policy as printed in 36 FR 16889.

(2) Where the grant results in a book or other copyrightable material, the author or grantee is eligible to copyright the work if it is found that (i) the retention of the copyright is not precluded by statute and (ii) equity or the public interest is best served by doing so, by reason of special circumstances. If it is found that the public interest is best served by limiting the term of any copyright to be obtained, such limits shall be set forth in the grant agreement. "Developmental" copyrights may be requested during the development, testing, or evaluation of copyrightable materials in order to prevent them from prematurely falling into the public domain. The copyright will be in accordance with copyright laws. However, the Government shall receive a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use the work for Government purposes. A copy of any copyright obtained by a grantee shall be provided to the Bureau. Program income received as royalties from copyrights on materials produced under grants is retained by the grantee during the grant period and is to be used according to the provisions of ยง 276.6(c). Specific agreements between the Bureau and the grantee shall be entered into before the grant is awarded to determine the uses of the royalty income after the grant is completed or terminated.

(h) The use of Bureau-owned facilities under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner by a grantee for purposes of carrying out a grant may be authorized when the facilities are not needed for Bureau purposes.
