
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### § 276.12 Procurement standards.

(a) The standards contained in this section do not relieve the grantee of the contractual responsibilities arising under its contracts. The grantee is the responsible authority, without recourse to the Bureau regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into, in support of a grant. This includes but is not limited to: disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the tribal, Federal or other authority which has proper jurisdiction.

(b) Grantees may use their own procurement regulations provided that procurements made with Bureau grant funds adhere to the standards set forth as follows:

(1) The grantee shall maintain a code or standards of conduct which shall govern the performance of its officers, employees, or agents in contracting with and expending Bureau grant funds. Grantee's officers, employees or agents, shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors or potential contractors. To the extent permissible by law, rules or regulations, such standards shall provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by either the grantee officers, employees, or agents, or by contractors or their agents.

(2) All procurement transactions regardless of whether negotiated or advertised and without regard to dollar value shall be conducted in a manner so as to provide maximum open and free competition. The grantee should be alert to organizational conflicts of interest or non-competitive practices among contractors which may restrict or eliminate competition or otherwise restrain trade. However, this provision will apply only after the Indian preference requirements prescribed in § 276.13 have been met.

(3) The grantee shall establish procurement procedures which provide for, as a minimum, the following procedural requirements:

(i) Proposed procurement actions shall be reviewed by grantee official to avoid purchasing unnecessary or duplicative items. Where appropriate, an analysis shall be made of lease and purchase alternatives to determine which would be the most economical, practical procurement.

(ii) Invitations for bids or requests for proposals shall be based upon a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. In competitive procurements, such description shall not contain features which unduly restrict competition. "Brand name or equal" description may be used as a means to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. When so used, the specific features of the named brand which must be met by offerors should be clearly specified.

(iii) Positive efforts shall be made by the grantees to use small business and minority-owned business sources of supplies and services. Such efforts should allow these sources the maximum feasible opportunity to compete for contracts to be performed using Bureau grant funds. However, this provision will apply only after the Indian preference requirements prescribed in § 276.13 have been met.

(iv) The type of procuring instruments used (i.e., fixed price contracts, cost reimbursable contracts, etc.) shall be appropriate for the particular procurement and for promoting the best interest of the grant program involved. The "cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost" method of contracting shall not be used.

(v) Formal advertising, with adequate purchase description, sealed bids, and public openings shall be the required method of procurement unless negotiation pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section is necessary to accomplish sound procurement. However, procurement of $10,000 or less need not be so advertised. Where such advertised bids are obtained the awards shall be made to the responsible bidder whose bid is responsive to the invitation and is most advantageous to the grantee, price and other factors considered. (Factors such as discounts, transportation costs, taxes may be considered in determining the lowest bid.) Invitations for bids shall clearly set forth all requirements which the bidder must fulfill in order for his bid to be evaluated by the grantee. Any or all bids may be rejected when it is in the grantee's interest to do so.

(vi) Procurements may be negotiated if it is impractical and unfeasible to use formal advertising. Generally, procurements may be negotiated by the grantee if:

(A) The public exigency will not permit the delay incident to advertising;

(B) The material or service to be procured is available from only one person or firm; (all contemplated sole source procurements where the aggregate expenditure is expected to exceed $5,000 shall be referred to the Bureau for prior approval).

(C) The total amount involved does not exceed $10,000;

(D) The contract is for personal or professional services, or for any service to be rendered by a university, college, or other educational institutions;

(E) No acceptable bids have been received after formal advertising;

(F) The purchases are for highly perishable materials or medical supplies; for material or services where the prices are established by law; for technical items or equipment requiring standardization and interchangeability of parts with existing equipment; for experimental, developmental or research work; for supplies purchased for authorized resale; and for technical or specialized supplies requiring substantial initial investment for manufacture;

(G) Otherwise authorized by law, rules or regulations. Notwithstanding the existence of circumstances justifying negotiation, competition shall be obtained to the maximum extent practicable.

(vii) Contracts shall be made only with responsible contractors who possess the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed procurement. Consideration shall be given to such matters as contractor integrity, record of past performance, financial and technical resources, or accessibility to other necessary resources.

(viii) Procurement records or files for purchases in amounts over $10,000 shall provide at least the following pertinent information: Justification for the use of negotiation in lieu of advertising, contractor selection, and the basis for the cost or price negotiation.

(ix) A system for contract administration shall be maintained to assure contractor conformance with terms, conditions, and specifications of the contract or order, and to assure adequate and timely followup of all purchases.

(c) In addition to provisions to define a sound and complete agreement, the grantee shall include the following provisions in all contracts and subgrants:

(1) Contracts shall contain such contractual provisions or conditions which will allow for administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors violate or breach contract terms, and provide for such sanctions and penalties as may be appropriate.

(2) All contracts, amounts for which are over $10,000 shall contain suitable provisions for termination by the grantee including the manner by which it will be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such contracts shall describe conditions where the contract may be terminated for default as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor.

(3) In all contracts for construction or facility improvement awarded over $100,000, grantees shall observe the bonding requirements provided in § 276.4.

(4) All construction contracts awarded by recipients and their contractors or subgrantees having a value of more than $10,000, shall contain a provision requiring compliance with Executive Order 11246, entitled "Equal Employment Opportunity," as amended by Labor Regulations (41 CFR part 87). However, this Equal Employment Opportunity provision will apply only after the Indian preference requirements prescribed in § 276.13 have been met.

(5) All contracts and subgrants for construction or repair shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland "Anti-Kick Back" Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3). This Act provides that each contractor or subgrantee shall be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any part of the compensation to which he is otherwise entitled. The grantee shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Bureau.

(6) When required by the Federal grant program legislation, all construction contracts awarded by grantees and subgrantees over $2,000 shall include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a to a-7) and as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). Under this Act, contractors shall be required to pay wages to laborers and mechanics at a rate not less than the minimum wages specified in a wage determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, contractors shall be required to pay wages not less often than once a week. The grantee shall place a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Department of Labor in each solicitation and the award of a contract shall be conditioned upon the acceptance of the wage determination. The grantee shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Bureau.

(7) Where applicable, all contracts awarded by grantees and subgrantees over $2,000 for construction contracts and over $2,500 for other contracts which involve the employment of mechanics or laborers shall include a provision for compliance with sections 103 and 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-330) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). Under section 103 of the Act, each contractor shall be required to compute the wages of every mechanic and laborer on the basis of a standard work day of 8 hours and a standard work week of 40 hours. Work in excess of the standard workday or workweek is permissible if the worker is compensated at a rate of not less than 1times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked over 8 hours in any calendar day or 40 hours in the work week. Section 107 of the Act applies to construction work and provides that no laborer or mechanic shall be required to work in surroundings or under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to his health and safety as determined under construction, safety, and health standards promulgated by the Secretary of Labor. These requirements do not apply to the purchases of supplies or materials or articles ordinarily available on the open market, or contracts for transportation or transmission of intelligence.

(8) Contracts or agreements, the principal purpose of which is to create, develop, or improve products, processes or methods; or for exploration into fields which directly concern public health, safety, or welfare; or constraints in the field of science or technology in which there has been little significant experience outside of work funded by Federal assistance, shall contain a notice to the effect that matters regarding rights to inventions, and materials generated under the contract or agreement are subject to the regulations issued by the Bureau. The contractor shall be advised as to the source of additional information regarding these matters.

(9) All negotiated contracts (except those of $10,000 or less) awarded by grantees shall include a provision to the effect that the grantee, the Bureau, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to a specific grant program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions.
