
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.14 Budget revision.

Criteria and procedures to be followed by grantees in reporting deviations from grant budgets and requesting approval for budget revisions are as follows:

(a) For nonconstruction grants, grantees shall request prior approvals promptly from the Bureau for budget revisions whenever:

(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the grant-supported program.

(2) The revision indicates the need for additional Bureau funding.

(3) The grant budget is over $100,000 and the cumulative amount of transfers among direct cost object class budget categories exceeds or is expected to exceed $10,000, or five percent of the grant budget, whichever is greater. The same criteria apply to cumulative amount of transfers among programs, functions, and activities when budgeted separately for a grant, except that the Bureau shall permit no transfer which would cause any Federal appropriation, or part thereof, to be used for purposes other than those intended.

(4) The grant budget is $100,000, or less, and the cumulative amount of transfers among direct cost object class budget categories exceeds or is expected to exceed five percent of the grant budget. The same criteria apply to the cumulative amount of transfers among programs, functions, and activities when budgeted separately for a grant, except that the Bureau shall permit no transfer which would cause any Federal appropriation, or part thereof, to be used for purposes other than those intended.

(5) The revisions involve the transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs.

(6) The revisions pertain to the addition of items requiring approval in accordance with the provisions of appendix A of this part.

(b) All other changes to nonconstruction grant budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (d) of this section do not require approval. These changes include:

(1) The use of grantee funds in furtherance of program objectives over and above the grantee minimum share included in the approved grant budget and

(2) The transfer of amounts budgeted for direct costs to absorb authorized increases in indirect costs.

(c) For construction grants, grantees shall request prior approval promptly from the Bureau for budget revisions whenever:

(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the grant-supported programs.

(2) The revision increases the budgeted amounts of Bureau funds needed to complete the project.

(d) When the Bureau awards a grant which provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, the Bureau may require, in the grant agreement, the grantee to request prior approval before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported.

(e) For both construction and nonconstruction grants, the Bureau shall require tribal grantees to notify the Bureau promptly whenever the amount of Bureau authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the grantee by more than $5,000 or 5 percent of the Bureau grant, whichever is greater. This notification will not be required when applications for additional funding are submitted for continuing grants.

(f) When requesting approval for budget revisions, grantees shall use the budget forms which were used in the grant application. However, grantees may request by letter the approvals required by the provisions of appendix A of this part.

(g) Within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, the Bureau shall review the request and notify the grantee whether or not the budget revisions have been approved. If the Bureau does not reach a decision prior to the end of the 30-day period or should the grantee not be notified of the Bureau's decision by the end of the 30-day period the grantee may appeal directly to the Commissioner.
