
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### ยง 276.15 Grant closeout.
###### Cancellation for cause.

(c)(1)The Bureau may cancel any grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever it is determined that the grantee has:

(i) Materially failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the grant;

(ii) Violated the rights or endangered the health, safety, or welfare of any persons;

(iii) Been grossly negligent in or has mismanaged the handling or use of funds provided under the grant.

(2) When it appears that cancellation of a grant shall become necessary, the Bureau shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of this possibility. This written notice shall advise the grantee of the reason for the possible cancellation and the corrective action necessary to avoid cancellation. The Bureau shall also offer, and provide if requested by the grantee, any technical assistance which may be required to effect the corrective action. The grantee shall have 60 days in which to effect this corrective action before the Bureau provides notice of intent to cancel the grant as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) Upon deciding to cancel for cause, the Bureau shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of that decision, the reasons for the cancellation, and the effective date. The Bureau shall also provide a hearing for the grantee before cancellation, as provided in ยง 272.51. However, the Bureau may immediately cancel the grant, upon notice to the grantee, if the Bureau determines that continuance of the grant poses an immediate threat to safety. In this event, the Bureau shall provide a hearing for the grantee within ten (10) days of cancellation.

(4) Payments made to grantees or recoveries by the Bureau under grants cancelled for cause shall be in accordance with the legal rights and obligations of the parties.
