
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 276 - Financial Reporting Requirements
###### Financial Status Report.

a.(1) The Bureau shall require grantees to use a standard Financial Status Report to report the status of funds for all nonconstruction grant programs. The Bureau may, however, have the option of not requiring a Federal Status Report when a request for advance or reimbursement (paragraph 2a) is determined to provide adequate information to meet their needs, except that a final Financial Status Report shall be required at the completion of the grant when the Request for Advance or Reimbursement form is used only for advances.

(2) The Bureau shall prescribe whether the report shall be on a cash or accrual basis. If the Bureau requires accrual information and the grantee's accouting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the grantee should develop such information through an analysis of the documentation on hand or on the basis of best estimates.

(3) The grant agreement shall determine the frequency of the Financial Status Report for each grant program considering the size and complexity of the particular program. However, the report shall not be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually. Also, a final report shall be required at the completion of the grant.

(4) The original and two copies of the Financial Status Report shall be submitted 30 days after the end of each specified reporting period. In addition, final reports shall be submitted 90 days after the end of the grant period or the completion of the project or program. Extensions to reporting due dates may be approved when requested by the grantee.
