
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 276 - Financial Reporting Requirements
###### Report of federal cash transactions.

b.(1) When funds are advanced to grantees through letters of credit or with Treasury checks, each grantee shall submit a report of Federal Cash Transactions. The Bureau shall use this report to monitor cash advanced to grantees and to obtain disbursement or outlay information for each grant or project from the grantees.

(2) The grant agreement may require forecasts of Federal cash requirement in the Remarks section of the report.

(3) When practical and deemed necessary, the Bureau may require grantees to report in the Remarks section the amount of cash in excess of three days' requirements in the hands of subgrantees or other secondary recipients and to provide short narrative explanations of actions taken by the grantees to reduce the excess balances.

(4) The Bureau shall accept the identical information from the grantees in a machine-usable format in lieu of the Report of Federal Cash Transactions.

(5) Grantees shall submit the original and two copies of the Report of Federal Cash Transactions no later than 15 working days following the end of each quarter. For those grantees receiving annual grants totalling one million dollars or more, the Bureau shall require a monthly report.

(6) The Bureau shall waive the requirement for submission of a Report of Federal Cash Transactions when monthly advances do not exceed $10,000 per grantee provided that such advances are monitored through other forms contained in this appendix or the grantee's accounting controls are adequate to minimize excessive Federal advances.

2. Except as noted below, only the following forms will be authorized for the grantees in requesting advances and reimbursements.
