
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter M - Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program
#### PART 276 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
##### Appendix B to Part 276 - Financial Reporting Requirements
###### Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Program.

b.(1) The "Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs" form is the standard format to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. The Bureau may, however, have the option of substituting a "Request for Advance or Reimbursement" form (paragraph 2a) in lieu of this form when the Bureau determines that the former provides adequate information to meet its needs as stated in the grant agreement.

(2) Grantees shall be authorized to submit requests for reimbursement at least monthly when letters of credit are not used. Grantees shall submit the original and two copies of an "Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs" form.

3. When the Bureau needs additional information in using these forms, the following shall be observed:

a. When necessary to comply with future legislative requirements, the Bureau shall issue instructions to require grantees to submit such information under the Remarks section of the reports.

b. When necessary to meet specific program needs, the Bureau shall submit the proposed reporting requirements to the General Services Administration for approval under the exception provision of this appendix.

c. The Bureau, in obtaining information as in paragraphs a and b above, must also comply with report clearance requirements of the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-40, as revised.
