
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Management Contract Provisions
#### PART 533 - APPROVAL OF MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
##### § 533.3 Submission of management contract for approval.

A tribe shall include in any request for approval of a management contract under this part:

(a) A contract containing:

(1) Original signatures of an authorized official of the tribe and the management contractor and;

(2) A representation that the contract as submitted to the Chairman is the entirety of the agreement among the parties.

(b) A letter, signed by the tribal chairman, setting out the authority of an authorized tribal official to act for the tribe concerning the management contract.

(c) Copies of documents evidencing the authority under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) A list of all persons and entities identified in §§ 537.1(a) and 537.1(c)(1) of this chapter, and either:

(1) The information required under § 537.1(b)(1) of this chapter for class II gaming contracts and § 537.1(b)(1)(i) of this chapter for class III gaming contracts; or

(2) The dates on which the information was previously submitted.

(e)(1) For new contracts and new operations, a three (3)-year business plan which sets forth the parties' goals, objectives, budgets, financial plans, and related matters; or

(2) For new contracts for existing operations, a three (3)-year business plan which sets forth the parties' goals, objectives, budgets, financial plans, and related matters, and income statements and sources and uses of funds statements for the previous three (3) years.

(f) If applicable, a justification, consistent with the provisions of § 531.1(h) of this chapter, for a term limit in excess of five (5) years, but not exceeding seven (7) years.

(g) If applicable, a justification, consistent with the provisions of § 531.1(i) of this chapter, for a fee in excess of thirty (30) percent, but not exceeding forty (40) percent.

(h) A legal description for the site on which the gaming operation to be managed is, or will be, located.
