
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.9 What are the minimum internal control standards for card games?
###### Standards for promotional progressive pots and pools.

(h)(1) All funds contributed by players into the pools shall be returned when won in accordance with the posted rules with no commission or administrative fee withheld.

(2) Rules governing promotional pools shall be conspicuously posted and designate:

(i) The amount of funds to be contributed from each pot;

(ii) What type of hand it takes to win the pool (e.g., what constitutes a "bad beat");

(iii) How the promotional funds will be paid out;

(iv) How/when the contributed funds are added to the jackpots; and

(v) Amount/percentage of funds allocated to primary and secondary jackpots, if applicable.

(3) Promotional pool contributions shall not be placed in or near the rake circle, in the drop box, or commingled with gaming revenue from card games or any other gambling game.

(4) The amount of the jackpot shall be conspicuously displayed in the card room.

(5) At least once a day, the posted pool amount shall be updated to reflect the current pool amount.

(6) At least once a day, increases to the posted pool amount shall be reconciled to the cash previously counted or received by the cage by personnel independent of the card room.

(7) All decreases to the pool must be properly documented, including a reason for the decrease.
