
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.10 What are the minimum internal control standards for keno?
###### Rabbit ear or wheel system.

(c)(1) The following standards shall apply if a rabbit ear or wheel system is utilized:

(i) A dedicated camera shall be utilized to monitor the following both prior to, and subsequent to, the calling of a game:

(A) Empty rabbit ears or wheel;

(B) Date and time;

(C) Game number; and

(D) Full rabbit ears or wheel.

(ii) The film of the rabbit ears or wheel shall provide a legible identification of the numbers on the balls drawn.

(iii) Keno personnel shall immediately input the selected numbers in the computer and the computer shall document the date, the game number, the time the game was closed, and the numbers drawn.

(iv) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures that prevent unauthorized access to keno balls in play.

(v) Back-up keno ball inventories shall be secured in a manner to prevent unauthorized access.

(vi) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures for inspecting new keno balls put into play as well as for those in use.

(2) [Reserved]
