
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.10 What are the minimum internal control standards for keno?
###### Winning tickets.

(e)Winning tickets shall be verified and paid as follows:

(1) The sequence number of tickets presented for payment shall be inputted into the computer, and the payment amount generated by the computer shall be given to the customer.

(2) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures that preclude payment on tickets previously presented for payment, unclaimed winning tickets (sleepers) after a specified period of time, voided tickets, and tickets that have not been issued yet.

(3) All payouts shall be supported by the customer (computer-generated) copy of the winning ticket (payout amount is indicated on the customer ticket or a payment slip is issued).

(4) A manual report or other documentation shall be produced and maintained documenting any payments made on tickets that are not authorized by the computer.

(5) Winning tickets over a specified dollar amount (not to exceed $10,000 for locations with more than $5 million annual keno write and $3,000 for all other locations) shall also require the following:

(i) Approval of management personnel independent of the keno department, evidenced by their signature;

(ii) Review of the video recording and/or digital record of the rabbit ears or wheel to verify the legitimacy of the draw and the accuracy of the draw ticket (for rabbit ear or wheel systems only);

(iii) Comparison of the winning customer copy to the computer reports;

(iv) Regrading of the customer copy using the payout schedule and draw information; and

(v) Documentation and maintenance of the procedures in this paragraph.

(6) When the keno game is operated by one person, all winning tickets in excess of an amount to be determined by management (not to exceed $1,500) shall be reviewed and authorized by a person independent of the keno department.
