
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.11 What are the minimum internal control standards for pari-mutuel wagering?
###### Betting ticket and equipment standards.

(c)(1) All pari-mutuel wagers shall be transacted through the pari-mutuel satellite system. In case of computer failure between the pari-mutuel book and the hub, no tickets shall be manually written.

(2) Whenever a betting station is opened for wagering or turned over to a new writer/cashier, the writer/cashier shall sign on and the computer shall document gaming operation name (or identification number), station number, the writer/cashier identifier, and the date and time.

(3) A betting ticket shall consist of at least two parts:

(i) An original, which shall be transacted and issued through a printer and given to the customer; and

(ii) A copy that shall be recorded concurrently with the generation of the original ticket either on paper or other storage media (e.g., tape or diskette).

(4) Upon accepting a wager, the betting ticket that is created shall contain the following:

(i) A unique transaction identifier;

(ii) Gaming operation name (or identification number) and station number;

(iii) Race track, race number, horse identification or event identification, as applicable;

(iv) Type of bet(s), each bet amount, total number of bets, and total take; and

(v) Date and time.

(5) All tickets shall be considered final at post time.

(6) If a gaming operation voids a betting ticket written prior to post time, it shall be immediately entered into the system.

(7) Future wagers shall be accepted and processed in the same manner as regular wagers.
