
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.11 What are the minimum internal control standards for pari-mutuel wagering?
###### Accounting and auditing functions.

(h)A gaming operation shall perform the following accounting and auditing functions:

(1) The parimutuel audit shall be conducted by personnel independent of the parimutuel operation.

(2) Documentation shall be maintained evidencing the performance of all parimutuel accounting and auditing procedures.

(3) An accounting employee shall review handle, commission, and breakage for each day's play and recalculate the net amount due to or from the systems operator on a weekly basis.

(4) The accounting employee shall verify actual cash/cash equivalents turned in to the system's summary report for each cashier's drawer (Beginning balance, (+) fills (draws), (+) net write (sold less voids), (-) payouts (net of IRS withholding), (-) cashbacks (paids), (=) cash turn-in).

(5) An accounting employee shall produce a gross revenue recap report to calculate gross revenue for each day's play and for a month-to-date basis, including the following totals:

(i) Commission;

(ii) Positive breakage;

(iii) Negative breakage;

(iv) Track/event fees;

(v) Track/event fee rebates; and

(vi) Purged tickets.

(6) All winning tickets and vouchers shall be physically removed from the SAM's for each day's play.

(7) In the event a SAM does not balance for a day's play, the auditor shall perform the following procedures:

(i) Foot the winning tickets and vouchers deposited and trace to the totals of SAM activity produced by the system;

(ii) Foot the listing of cashed vouchers and trace to the totals produced by the system;

(iii) Review all exceptions for propriety of transactions and unusual occurrences;

(iv) Review all voids for propriety;

(v) Verify the results as produced by the system to the results provided by an independent source;

(vi) Regrade 1% of paid (cashed) tickets to ensure accuracy and propriety; and

(vii) When applicable, reconcile the totals of future tickets written to the totals produced by the system for both earned and unearned take, and review the reports to ascertain that future wagers are properly included on the day of the event.

(8) At least annually, the auditor shall foot the wagers for one day and trace to the total produced by the system.

(9) At least one day per quarter, the auditor shall recalculate and verify the change in the unpaid winners to the total purged tickets.
