
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.12 What are the minimum internal control standards for table games?
###### Fill and credit standards.

(c)(1) Fill slips and credit slips shall be in at least triplicate form, and in a continuous, prenumbered series. Such slips shall be concurrently numbered in a form utilizing the alphabet and only in one series at a time. The alphabet need not be used if the numerical series is not repeated during the business year.

(2) Unissued and issued fill/credit slips shall be safeguarded and adequate procedures shall be employed in their distribution, use, and control. Personnel from the cashier or pit departments shall have no access to the secured (control) copies of the fill/credit slips.

(3) When a fill/credit slip is voided, the cashier shall clearly mark "void" across the face of the original and first copy, the cashier and one other person independent of the transactions shall sign both the original and first copy, and shall submit them to the accounting department for retention and accountability.

(4) Fill transactions shall be authorized by pit supervisory personnel before the issuance of fill slips and transfer of chips, tokens, or cash equivalents. The fill request shall be communicated to the cage where the fill slip is prepared.

(5) At least three parts of each fill slip shall be utilized as follows:

(i) One part shall be transported to the pit with the fill and, after the appropriate signatures are obtained, deposited in the table game drop box;

(ii) One part shall be retained in the cage for reconciliation of the cashier bank; and

(iii) For computer systems, one part shall be retained in a secure manner to insure that only authorized persons may gain access to it. For manual systems, one part shall be retained in a secure manner in a continuous unbroken form.

(6) For Tier C gaming operations, the part of the fill slip that is placed in the table game drop box shall be of a different color for fills than for credits, unless the type of transaction is clearly distinguishable in another manner (the checking of a box on the form shall not be a clearly distinguishable indicator).

(7) The table number, shift, and amount of fill by denomination and in total shall be noted on all copies of the fill slip. The correct date and time shall be indicated on at least two copies.

(8) All fills shall be carried from the cashier's cage by a person who is independent of the cage or pit.

(9) The fill slip shall be signed by at least the following persons (as an indication that each has counted the amount of the fill and the amount agrees with the fill slip):

(i) Cashier who prepared the fill slip and issued the chips, tokens, or cash equivalent;

(ii) Runner who carried the chips, tokens, or cash equivalents from the cage to the pit;

(iii) Dealer or boxperson who received the chips, tokens, or cash equivalents at the gaming table; and

(iv) Pit supervisory personnel who supervised the fill transaction.

(10) Fills shall be broken down and verified by the dealer or boxperson in public view before the dealer or boxperson places the fill in the table tray.

(11) A copy of the fill slip shall then be deposited into the drop box on the table by the dealer, where it shall appear in the soft count room with the cash receipts for the shift.

(12) Table credit transactions shall be authorized by a pit supervisor before the issuance of credit slips and transfer of chips, tokens, or other cash equivalent. The credit request shall be communicated to the cage where the credit slip is prepared.

(13) At least three parts of each credit slip shall be utilized as follows:

(i) Two parts of the credit slip shall be transported by the runner to the pit. After signatures of the runner, dealer, and pit supervisor are obtained, one copy shall be deposited in the table game drop box and the original shall accompany transport of the chips, tokens, markers, or cash equivalents from the pit to the cage for verification and signature of the cashier.

(ii) For computer systems, one part shall be retained in a secure manner to insure that only authorized persons may gain access to it. For manual systems, one part shall be retained in a secure manner in a continuous unbroken form.

(14) The table number, shift, and the amount of credit by denomination and in total shall be noted on all copies of the credit slip. The correct date and time shall be indicated on at least two copies.

(15) Chips, tokens, and/or cash equivalents shall be removed from the table tray by the dealer or boxperson and shall be broken down and verified by the dealer or boxperson in public view prior to placing them in racks for transfer to the cage.

(16) All chips, tokens, and cash equivalents removed from the tables and markers removed from the pit shall be carried to the cashier's cage by a person who is independent of the cage or pit.

(17) The credit slip shall be signed by at least the following persons (as an indication that each has counted or, in the case of markers, reviewed the items transferred):

(i) Cashier who received the items transferred from the pit and prepared the credit slip;

(ii) Runner who carried the items transferred from the pit to the cage;

(iii) Dealer who had custody of the items prior to transfer to the cage; and

(iv) Pit supervisory personnel who supervised the credit transaction.

(18) The credit slip shall be inserted in the drop box by the dealer.

(19) Chips, tokens, or other cash equivalents shall be deposited on or removed from gaming tables only when accompanied by the appropriate fill/credit or marker transfer forms.

(20) Cross fills (the transfer of chips between table games) and even cash exchanges are prohibited in the pit.
