
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.12 What are the minimum internal control standards for table games?
###### Marker credit play.

(k)(1) If a gaming operation allows marker credit play (exclusive of rim credit and call bets), the following standards shall apply:

(i) A marker system shall allow for credit to be both issued and repaid in the pit.

(ii) Prior to the issuance of gaming credit to a player, the employee extending the credit shall contact the cashier or other independent source to determine if the player's credit limit has been properly established and there is sufficient remaining credit available for the advance.

(iii) Proper authorization of credit extension in excess of the previously established limit shall be documented.

(iv) The amount of credit extended shall be communicated to the cage or another independent source and the amount documented within a reasonable time subsequent to each issuance.

(v) The marker form shall be prepared in at least triplicate form (triplicate form being defined as three parts performing the functions delineated in the standard in paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section), with a preprinted or concurrently printed marker number, and utilized in numerical sequence. (This requirement shall not preclude the distribution of batches of markers to various pits.)

(vi) At least three parts of each separately numbered marker form shall be utilized as follows:

(A) Original shall be maintained in the pit until settled or transferred to the cage;

(B) Payment slip shall be maintained in the pit until the marker is settled or transferred to the cage. If paid in the pit, the slip shall be inserted in the table game drop box. If not paid in the pit, the slip shall be transferred to the cage with the original;

(C) Issue slip shall be inserted into the appropriate table game drop box when credit is extended or when the player has signed the original.

(vii) When marker documentation (e.g., issue slip and payment slip) is inserted in the drop box, such action shall be performed by the dealer or boxperson at the table.

(viii) A record shall be maintained that details the following (e.g., master credit record retained at the pit podium):

(A) The signature or initials of the person(s) approving the extension of credit (unless such information is contained elsewhere for each issuance);

(B) The legible name of the person receiving the credit;

(C) The date and shift of granting the credit;

(D) The table on which the credit was extended;

(E) The amount of credit issued;

(F) The marker number;

(G) The amount of credit remaining after each issuance or the total credit available for all issuances;

(H) The amount of payment received and nature of settlement (e.g., credit slip number, cash, chips, etc.); and

(I) The signature or initials of the person receiving payment/settlement.

(ix) The forms required in paragraphs (k)(1)(v), (vi), and (viii) of this section shall be safeguarded, and adequate procedures shall be employed to control the distribution, use, and access to these forms.

(x) All credit extensions shall be initially evidenced by lammer buttons, which shall be displayed on the table in public view and placed there by supervisory personnel.

(xi) Marker preparation shall be initiated and other records updated within approximately one hand of play following the initial issuance of credit to the player.

(xii) Lammer buttons shall be removed only by the dealer or boxperson employed at the table upon completion of a marker transaction.

(xiii) The original marker shall contain at least the following information:

(A) Marker number;

(B) Player's name and signature;

(C) Date; and

(D) Amount of credit issued.

(xiv) The issue slip or stub shall include the same marker number as the original, the table number, date and time of issuance, and amount of credit issued. The issue slip or stub shall also include the signature of the person extending the credit, and the signature or initials of the dealer or boxperson at the applicable table, unless this information is included on another document verifying the issued marker.

(xv) The payment slip shall include the same marker number as the original. When the marker is paid in full in the pit, it shall also include the table number where paid, date and time of payment, nature of settlement (cash, chips, etc.), and amount of payment. The payment slip shall also include the signature of pit supervisory personnel acknowledging payment, and the signature or initials of the dealer or boxperson receiving payment, unless this information is included on another document verifying the payment of the marker.

(xvi) When partial payments are made in the pit, a new marker shall be completed reflecting the remaining balance and the marker number of the marker originally issued.

(xvii) When partial payments are made in the pit, the payment slip of the marker that was originally issued shall be properly cross-referenced to the new marker number, completed with all information required by paragraph (k)(1)(xv) of this section, and inserted into the drop box.

(xviii) The cashier's cage or another independent source shall be notified when payments (full or partial) are made in the pit so that cage records can be updated for such transactions. Notification shall be made no later than when the customer's play is completed or at shift end, whichever is earlier.

(xix) All portions of markers, both issued and unissued, shall be safeguarded and procedures shall be employed to control the distribution, use and access to the forms.

(xx) An investigation shall be performed to determine the cause and responsibility for loss whenever marker forms, or any part thereof, are missing. These investigations shall be documented, maintained for inspection, and provided to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority upon request.

(xxi) When markers are transferred to the cage, marker transfer forms or marker credit slips (or similar documentation) shall be utilized and such documents shall include, at a minimum, the date, time, shift, marker number(s), table number(s), amount of each marker, the total amount transferred, signature of pit supervisory personnel releasing instruments from the pit, and the signature of cashier verifying receipt of instruments at the cage.

(xxii) All markers shall be transferred to the cage within twenty-four (24) hours of issuance.

(xxiii) Markers shall be transported to the cashier's cage by a person who is independent of the marker issuance and payment functions (pit clerks may perform this function).

(2) [Reserved]
