
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Jackpot payouts, gaming machines fills, short pays and accumulated credit payouts standards.

(d)(1) For jackpot payouts and gaming machine fills, documentation shall include the following information:

(i) Date and time;

(ii) Machine number;

(iii) Dollar amount of cash payout or gaming machine fill (both alpha and numeric) or description of personal property awarded, including fair market value. Alpha is optional if another unalterable method is used for evidencing the amount of the payout;

(iv) Game outcome (including reel symbols, card values, suits, etc.) for jackpot payouts. Game outcome is not required if a computerized jackpot/fill system is used;

(v) Preprinted or concurrently printed sequential number; and

(vi) Signatures of at least two employees verifying and witnessing the payout or gaming machine fill (except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(vi)(A), (B), and (C) of this section).

(A) Jackpot payouts over a predetermined amount shall require the signature and verification of a supervisory or management employee independent of the gaming machine department (in addition to the two signatures required in paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section). Alternatively, if an on-line accounting system is utilized, only two signatures are required: one employee and one supervisory or management employee independent of the gaming machine department. This predetermined amount shall be authorized by management (as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority), documented, and maintained.

(B) With regard to jackpot payouts and hopper fills, the signature of one employee is sufficient if an on-line accounting system is utilized and the jackpot or fill is less than $1,200.

(C) On graveyard shifts (eight-hour maximum) payouts/fills less than $100 can be made without the payout/fill being witnessed by a second person.

(2) For short pays of $10.00 or more, and payouts required for accumulated credits, the payout form shall include the following information:

(i) Date and time;

(ii) Machine number;

(iii) Dollar amount of payout (both alpha and numeric); and

(iv) The signature of at least one (1) employee verifying and witnessing the payout.

(A) Where the payout amount is $50 or more, signatures of at least two (2) employees verifying and witnessing the payout. Alternatively, the signature of one (1) employee is sufficient if an on-line accounting system is utilized and the payout amount is less than $3,000.

(B) [Reserved]

(3) Computerized jackpot/fill systems shall be restricted so as to prevent unauthorized access and fraudulent payouts by one person as required by ยง 542.16(a).

(4) Payout forms shall be controlled and routed in a manner that precludes any one person from producing a fraudulent payout by forging signatures or by altering the amount paid out subsequent to the payout and misappropriating the funds.
