
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### EPROM control standards.

(g)(1) At least annually, procedures shall be performed to insure the integrity of a sample of gaming machine game program EPROMs, or other equivalent game software media, by personnel independent of the gaming machine department or the machines being tested.

(2) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation subject to the approval of the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall develop and implement procedures for the following:

(i) Removal of EPROMs, or other equivalent game software media, from devices, the verification of the existence of errors as applicable, and the correction via duplication from the master game program EPROM, or other equivalent game software media;

(ii) Copying one gaming device program to another approved program;

(iii) Verification of duplicated EPROMs before being offered for play;

(iv) Receipt and destruction of EPROMs, or other equivalent game software media; and

(v) Securing the EPROM, or other equivalent game software media, duplicator, and master game EPROMs, or other equivalent game software media, from unrestricted access.

(3) The master game program number, par percentage, and the pay table shall be verified to the par sheet when initially received from the manufacturer.

(4) Gaming machines with potential jackpots in excess of $100,000 shall have the game software circuit boards locked or physically sealed. The lock or seal shall necessitate the presence of a person independent of the gaming machine department to access the device game program EPROM, or other equivalent game software media. If a seal is used to secure the board to the frame of the gaming device, it shall be pre-numbered.

(5) Records that document the procedures in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section shall include the following information:

(i) Date;

(ii) Machine number (source and destination);

(iii) Manufacturer;

(iv) Program number;

(v) Personnel involved;

(vi) Reason for duplication;

(vii) Disposition of any permanently removed EPROM, or other equivalent game software media;

(viii) Seal numbers, if applicable; and

(ix) Approved testing lab approval numbers, if available.

(6) EPROMS, or other equivalent game software media, returned to gaming devices shall be labeled with the program number. Supporting documentation shall include the date, program number, information identical to that shown on the manufacturer's label, and initials of the person replacing the EPROM, or other equivalent game software media.

(h) Standards for evaluating theoretical and actual hold percentages.

(1) Accurate and current theoretical hold worksheets shall be maintained for each gaming machine.

(2) For multi-game/multi-denominational machines, an employee or department independent of the gaming machine department shall:

(i) Weekly, record the total coin-in meter;

(ii) Quarterly, record the coin-in meters for each paytable contained in the machine; and

(iii) On an annual basis, adjust the theoretical hold percentage in the gaming machine statistical report to a weighted average based upon the ratio of coin-in for each game paytable.

(3) For those gaming operations that are unable to perform the weighted average calculation as required by paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the following procedures shall apply:

(i) On at least an annual basis, calculate the actual hold percentage for each gaming machine;

(ii) On at least an annual basis, adjust the theoretical hold percentage in the gaming machine statistical report for each gaming machine to the previously calculated actual hold percentage; and

(iii) The adjusted theoretical hold percentage shall be within the spread between the minimum and maximum theoretical payback percentages.

(4) The adjusted theoretical hold percentage for multi-game/multi-denominational machines may be combined for machines with exactly the same game mix throughout the year.

(5) The theoretical hold percentages used in the gaming machine analysis reports should be within the performance standards set by the manufacturer.

(6) Records shall be maintained for each machine indicating the dates and type of changes made and the recalculation of theoretical hold as a result of the changes.

(7) Records shall be maintained for each machine that indicate the date the machine was placed into service, the date the machine was removed from operation, the date the machine was placed back into operation, and any changes in machine numbers and designations.

(8) All of the gaming machines shall contain functioning meters that shall record coin-in or credit-in, or on-line gaming machine monitoring system that captures similar data.

(9) All gaming machines with bill acceptors shall contain functioning billing meters that record the dollar amounts or number of bills accepted by denomination.

(10) Gaming machine in-meter readings shall be recorded at least weekly (monthly for Tier A and Tier B gaming operations) immediately prior to or subsequent to a gaming machine drop. On-line gaming machine monitoring systems can satisfy this requirement. However, the time between readings may extend beyond one week in order for a reading to coincide with the end of an accounting period only if such extension is for no longer than six (6) days.

(11) The employee who records the in-meter reading shall either be independent of the hard count team or shall be assigned on a rotating basis, unless the in-meter readings are randomly verified quarterly for all gaming machines and bill acceptors by a person other than the regular in-meter reader.

(12) Upon receipt of the meter reading summary, the accounting department shall review all meter readings for reasonableness using pre-established parameters.

(13) Prior to final preparation of statistical reports, meter readings that do not appear reasonable shall be reviewed with gaming machine department employees or other appropriate designees, and exceptions documented, so that meters can be repaired or clerical errors in the recording of meter readings can be corrected.

(14) A report shall be produced at least monthly showing month-to-date, year-to-date (previous twelve (12) months data preferred), and if practicable, life-to-date actual hold percentage computations for individual machines and a comparison to each machine's theoretical hold percentage previously discussed.
