
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Player tracking system.

(j)(1) The following standards apply if a player tracking system is utilized:

(i) The player tracking system shall be secured so as to prevent unauthorized access (e.g., changing passwords at least quarterly and physical access to computer hardware, etc.).

(ii) The addition of points to members' accounts other than through actual gaming machine play shall be sufficiently documented (including substantiation of reasons for increases) and shall be authorized by a department independent of the player tracking and gaming machines. Alternatively, addition of points to members' accounts may be authorized by gaming machine supervisory employees if sufficient documentation is generated and it is randomly verified by employees independent of the gaming machine department on a quarterly basis.

(iii) Booth employees who redeem points for members shall be allowed to receive lost players club cards, provided that they are immediately deposited into a secured container for retrieval by independent personnel.

(iv) Changes to the player tracking system parameters, such as point structures and employee access, shall be performed by supervisory employees independent of the gaming machine department. Alternatively, changes to player tracking system parameters may be performed by gaming machine supervisory employees if sufficient documentation is generated and it is randomly verified by supervisory employees independent of the gaming machine department on a monthly basis.

(v) All other changes to the player tracking system shall be appropriately documented.

(2) [Reserved]
