
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Accounting/auditing standards.

(m)(1) Gaming machine accounting/auditing procedures shall be performed by employees who are independent of the transactions being reviewed.

(2) For on-line gaming machine monitoring systems, procedures shall be performed at least monthly to verify that the system is transmitting and receiving data from the gaming machines properly and to verify the continuing accuracy of the coin-in meter readings as recorded in the gaming machine statistical report.

(3) For weigh scale and currency interface systems, for at least one drop period per month accounting/auditing employees shall make such comparisons as necessary to the system generated count as recorded in the gaming machine statistical report. Discrepancies shall be resolved prior to generation/distribution of gaming machine reports.

(4) For each drop period, accounting/auditing personnel shall compare the coin-to-drop meter reading to the actual drop amount. Discrepancies should be resolved prior to generation/distribution of on-line gaming machine monitoring system statistical reports.

(5) Follow-up shall be performed for any one machine having an unresolved variance between actual coin drop and coin-to-drop meter reading in excess of three percent (3%) and over $25.00. The follow-up performed and results of the investigation shall be documented, maintained for inspection, and provided to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority upon request.

(6) For each drop period, accounting/auditing employees shall compare the bill-in meter reading to the total bill acceptor drop amount for the period. Discrepancies shall be resolved before the generation/distribution of gaming machine statistical reports.

(7) Follow-up shall be performed for any one machine having an unresolved variance between actual currency drop and bill-in meter reading in excess of an amount that is both more than $25 and at least three percent (3%) of the actual currency drop. The follow-up performed and results of the investigation shall be documented, maintained for inspection, and provided to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority upon request.

(8) At least annually, accounting/auditing personnel shall randomly verify that EPROM or other equivalent game software media changes are properly reflected in the gaming machine analysis reports.

(9) Accounting/auditing employees shall review exception reports for all computerized gaming machine systems on a daily basis for propriety of transactions and unusual occurrences.

(10) All gaming machine auditing procedures and any follow-up performed shall be documented, maintained for inspection, and provided to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority upon request.
