
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Cash-out tickets.

(n)For gaming machines that utilize cash-out tickets, the following standards apply. This standard is not applicable to Tiers A and B. Tier A and B gaming operations shall develop adequate standards governing the security over the issuance of the cash-out paper to the gaming machines and the redemption of cash-out slips.

(1) In addition to the applicable auditing and accounting standards in paragraph (m) of this section, on a quarterly basis, the gaming operation shall foot all jackpot cash-out tickets equal to or greater than $1,200 and trace totals to those produced by the host validation computer system.

(2) The customer may request a cash-out ticket from the gaming machine that reflects all remaining credits. The cash-out ticket shall be printed at the gaming machine by an internal document printer. The cash-out ticket shall be valid for a time period specified by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority. Cash-out tickets may be redeemed for payment or inserted in another gaming machine and wagered, if applicable, during the specified time period.

(3) The customer shall redeem the cash-out ticket at a change booth or cashiers' cage. Alternatively, if a gaming operation utilizes a remote computer validation system, the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall develop alternate standards for the maximum amount that can be redeemed, which shall not exceed $2,999.99 per cash-out transaction.

(4) Upon presentation of the cash-out ticket(s) for redemption, the following shall occur:

(i) Scan the bar code via an optical reader or its equivalent; or

(ii) Input the cash-out ticket validation number into the computer.

(5) The information contained in paragraph (n)(4) of this section shall be communicated to the host computer. The host computer shall verify the authenticity of the cash-out ticket and communicate directly to the redeemer of the cash-out ticket.

(6) If valid, the cashier (redeemer of the cash-out ticket) pays the customer the appropriate amount and the cash-out ticket is electronically noted "paid" in the system. The "paid" cash-out ticket shall remain in the cashiers" bank for reconciliation purposes. The host validation computer system shall electronically reconcile the cashier's banks for the paid cashed-out tickets.

(7) If invalid, the host computer shall notify the cashier (redeemer of the cash-out ticket). The cashier (redeemer of the cash-out ticket) shall refuse payment to the customer and notify a supervisor of the invalid condition. The supervisor shall resolve the dispute.

(8) If the host validation computer system temporarily goes down, cashiers may redeem cash-out tickets at a change booth or cashier's cage after recording the following:

(i) Serial number of the cash-out ticket;

(ii) Date and time;

(iii) Dollar amount;

(iv) Issuing gaming machine number;

(v) Marking ticket "paid"; and

(vi) Ticket shall remain in cashier's bank for reconciliation purposes.

(9) Cash-out tickets shall be validated as expeditiously as possible when the host validation computer system is restored.

(10) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures to control cash-out ticket paper, which shall include procedures that:

(i) Mitigate the risk of counterfeiting of cash-out ticket paper;

(ii) Adequately control the inventory of the cash-out ticket paper; and

(iii) Provide for the destruction of all unused cash-out ticket paper.

(iv) Alternatively, if the gaming operation utilizes a computer validation system, this standard shall not apply.

(11) If the host validation computer system is down for more than four (4) hours, the gaming operation shall promptly notify the Tribal gaming regulatory authority or its designated representative.

(12) These gaming machine systems shall comply with all other standards (as applicable) in this part including:

(i) Standards for bill acceptor drop and count;

(ii) Standards for coin drop and count; and

(iii) Standards concerning EPROMS or other equivalent game software media.
