
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Customer account generation standards.

(4)(i) A computer file for each customer shall be prepared by a clerk, with no incompatible functions, prior to the customer being issued an account access card to be utilized for machine play. The customer may select his/her PIN to be used in conjunction with the account access card.

(ii) For each customer file, an employee shall:

(A) Record the customer's name and current address;

(B) The date the account was opened; and

(C) At the time the initial deposit is made, account opened, or credit extended, the identity of the customer shall be verified by examination of a valid driver's license or other reliable identity credential.

(iii) The clerk shall sign-on with a unique password to a terminal equipped with peripherals required to establish a customer account. Passwords are issued and can only be changed by information technology personnel at the discretion of the department director.

(iv) After entering a specified number of incorrect PIN entries at the cage or player terminal, the customer shall be directed to proceed to a clerk to obtain a new PIN. If a customer forgets, misplaces or requests a change to their PIN, the customer shall proceed to a clerk for assistance.
