
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Deposit of credits standards.

(5)(i) The cashier shall sign-on with a unique password to a cashier terminal equipped with peripherals required to complete the credit transactions. Passwords are issued and can only be changed by information technology personnel at the discretion of the department director.

(ii) The customer shall present cash, chips, coin or coupons along with their account access card to a cashier to deposit credits.

(iii) The cashier shall complete the transaction by utilizing a card scanner that the cashier shall slide the customer's account access card through.

(iv) The cashier shall accept the funds from the customer and enter the appropriate amount on the cashier terminal.

(v) A multi-part deposit slip shall be generated by the point of sale receipt printer. The cashier shall direct the customer to sign the deposit slip receipt. One copy of the deposit slip shall be given to the customer. The other copy of the deposit slip shall be secured in the cashier's cash drawer.

(vi) The cashier shall verify the customer's balance before completing the transaction. The cashier shall secure the funds in their cash drawer and return the account access card to the customer.

(vii) Alternatively, if a kiosk is utilized to accept a deposit of credits, the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures that safeguard the integrity of the kiosk system.
