
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.13 What are the minimum internal control standards for gaming machines?
###### Credit withdrawal.

(7)The customer shall present their account access card to a cashier to withdraw their credits. The cashier shall perform the following:

(i) Scan the account access card;

(ii) Request the customer to enter their PIN, if the PIN was selected by the customer;

(iii) The cashier shall ascertain the amount the customer wishes to withdraw and enter the amount into the computer;

(iv) A multi-part withdrawal slip shall be generated by the point of sale receipt printer. The cashier shall direct the customer to sign the withdrawal slip;

(v) The cashier shall verify that the account access card and the customer match by:

(A) Comparing the customer to image on the computer screen;

(B) Comparing the customer to image on customer's picture ID; or

(C) Comparing the customer signature on the withdrawal slip to signature on the computer screen.

(vi) The cashier shall verify the customer's balance before completing the transaction. The cashier shall pay the customer the appropriate amount, issue the customer the original withdrawal slip and return the account access card to the customer;

(vii) The copy of the withdrawal slip shall be placed in the cash drawer. All account transactions shall be accurately tracked by the account server computer system. The copy of the withdrawal slip shall be forwarded to the accounting department at the end of the gaming day; and

(viii) In the event the imaging function is temporarily disabled, customers shall be required to provide positive ID for cash withdrawal transactions at the cashier stations.
