
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.14 What are the minimum internal control standards for the cage?
###### Customer deposited funds.

(c)If a gaming operation permits a customer to deposit funds with the gaming operation at the cage, the following standards shall apply.

(1) The receipt or withdrawal of a customer deposit shall be evidenced by at least a two-part document with one copy going to the customer and one copy remaining in the cage file.

(2) The multi-part receipt shall contain the following information:

(i) Same receipt number on all copies;

(ii) Customer's name and signature;

(iii) Date of receipt and withdrawal;

(iv) Dollar amount of deposit/withdrawal; and

(v) Nature of deposit (cash, check, chips); however,

(vi) Provided all of the information in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (v) is available, the only required information for all copies of the receipt is the receipt number.

(3) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures that:

(i) Maintain a detailed record by customer name and date of all funds on deposit;

(ii) Maintain a current balance of all customer cash deposits that are in the cage/vault inventory or accountability; and

(iii) Reconcile this current balance with the deposits and withdrawals at least daily.

(4) The gaming operation, as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall describe the sequence of the required signatures attesting to the accuracy of the information contained on the customer deposit or withdrawal form ensuring that the form is signed by the cashier.

(5) All customer deposits and withdrawal transactions at the cage shall be recorded on a cage accountability form on a per-shift basis.

(6) Only cash, cash equivalents, chips, and tokens shall be accepted from customers for the purpose of a customer deposit.

(7) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures that verify the customer's identity, including photo identification.

(8) A file for customers shall be prepared prior to acceptance of a deposit.
