
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.19 What are the minimum internal control standards for accounting?
###### Gross gaming revenue computations.

(d)(1) For table games, gross revenue equals the closing table bankroll, plus credit slips for cash, chips, tokens or personal/payroll checks returned to the cage, plus drop, less opening table bankroll and fills to the table, and money transfers issued from the game through the use of a cashless wagering system.

(2) For gaming machines, gross revenue equals drop, less fills, jackpot payouts and personal property awarded to patrons as gambling winnings. Additionally, the initial hopper load is not a fill and does not affect gross revenue. The difference between the initial hopper load and the total amount that is in the hopper at the end of the gaming operation's fiscal year should be adjusted accordingly as an addition to or subtraction from the drop for the year.

(3) For each counter game, gross revenue equals:

(i) The money accepted by the gaming operation on events or games that occur during the month or will occur in subsequent months, less money paid out during the month to patrons on winning wagers ("cash basis"); or

(ii) The money accepted by the gaming operation on events or games that occur during the month, plus money, not previously included in gross revenue, that was accepted by the gaming operation in previous months on events or games occurring in the month, less money paid out during the month to patrons as winning wagers ("modified accrual basis").

(4) For each card game and any other game in which the gaming operation is not a party to a wager, gross revenue equals all money received by the operation as compensation for conducting the game.

(i) A gaming operation shall not include either shill win or loss in gross revenue computations.

(ii) In computing gross revenue for gaming machines, keno and bingo, the actual cost to the gaming operation of any personal property distributed as losses to patrons may be deducted from winnings (other than costs of travel, lodging, services, food, and beverages), if the gaming operation maintains detailed documents supporting the deduction.

(e) Each gaming operation shall establish internal control systems sufficient to ensure that currency (other than tips or gratuities) received from a patron in the gaming area is promptly placed in a locked box in the table, or, in the case of a cashier, in the appropriate place in the cashier's cage, or on those games which do not have a locked drop box, or on card game tables, in an appropriate place on the table, in the cash register or in another approved repository.

(f) If the gaming operation provides periodic payments to satisfy a payout resulting from a wager, the initial installment payment, when paid, and the actual cost of a payment plan, which is funded by the gaming operation, may be deducted from winnings. The gaming operation is required to obtain the approval of all payment plans from the TGRA. For any funding method which merely guarantees the gaming operation's performance, and under which the gaming operation makes payments out of cash flow (e.g. irrevocable letters of credits, surety bonds, or other similar methods), the gaming operation may only deduct such payments when paid to the patron.

(g) For payouts by wide-area progressive gaming machine systems, a gaming operation may deduct from winnings only its pro rata share of a wide-area gaming machine system payout.

(h) Cash-out tickets issued at a gaming machine or gaming device shall be deducted from gross revenue as jackpot payouts in the month the tickets are issued by the gaming machine or gaming device. Tickets deducted from gross revenue that are not redeemed within a period, not to exceed 180 days of issuance, shall be included in gross revenue. An unredeemed ticket previously included in gross revenue may be deducted from gross revenue in the month redeemed.

(i) A gaming operation may not deduct from gross revenues the unpaid balance of a credit instrument extended for purposes other than gaming.

(j) A gaming operation may deduct from gross revenue the unpaid balance of a credit instrument if the gaming operation documents, or otherwise keeps detailed records of, compliance with the following requirements. Such records confirming compliance shall be made available to the TGRA or the Commission upon request:

(1) The gaming operation can document that the credit extended was for gaming purposes;

(2) The gaming operation has established procedures and relevant criteria to evaluate a patron's credit reputation or financial resources and to then determine that there is a reasonable basis for extending credit in the amount or sum placed at the patron's disposal;

(3) In the case of personal checks, the gaming operation has established procedures to examine documentation, which would normally be acceptable as a type of identification when cashing checks, and has recorded the patron's bank check guarantee card number or credit card number, or has satisfied paragraph (j)(2) of this section, as management may deem appropriate for the check-cashing authorization granted;

(4) In the case of third-party checks for which cash, chips, or tokens have been issued to the patron, or which were accepted in payment of another credit instrument, the gaming operation has established procedures to examine documentation, normally accepted as a means of identification when cashing checks, and has, for the check's maker or drawer, satisfied paragraph (j)(2) of this section, as management may deem appropriate for the check-cashing authorization granted;

(5) In the case of guaranteed drafts, procedures should be established to ensure compliance with the issuance and acceptance procedures prescribed by the issuer;

(6) The gaming operation has established procedures to ensure that the credit extended is appropriately documented, not least of which would be the patron's identification and signature attesting to the authenticity of the individual credit transactions. The authorizing signature shall be obtained at the time credit is extended.

(7) The gaming operation has established procedures to effectively document its attempt to collect the full amount of the debt. Such documentation would include, but not be limited to, letters sent to the patron, logs of personal or telephone conversations, proof of presentation of the credit instrument to the patron's bank for collection, settlement agreements, or other documents which demonstrate that the gaming operation has made a good faith attempt to collect the full amount of the debt. Such records documenting collection efforts shall be made available to the TGRA or the commission upon request.

(k) Maintenance and preservation of books, records and documents. (1) All original books, records and documents pertaining to the conduct of wagering activities shall be retained by a gaming operation in accordance with the following schedule. A record that summarizes gaming transactions is sufficient, provided that all documents containing an original signature(s) attesting to the accuracy of a gaming related transaction are independently preserved. Original books, records or documents shall not include copies of originals, except for copies that contain original comments or notations on parts of multi-part forms. The following original books, records and documents shall be retained by a gaming operation for a minimum of five (5) years:

(i) Casino cage documents;

(ii) Documentation supporting the calculation of table game win;

(iii) Documentation supporting the calculation of gaming machine win;

(iv) Documentation supporting the calculation of revenue received from the games of keno, pari-mutuel, bingo, pull-tabs, card games, and all other gaming activities offered by the gaming operation;

(v) Table games statistical analysis reports;

(vi) Gaming machine statistical analysis reports;

(vii) Bingo, pull-tab, keno and pari-mutuel wagering statistical reports;

(viii) Internal audit documentation and reports;

(ix) Documentation supporting the write-off of gaming credit instruments and named credit instruments;

(x) All other books, records and documents pertaining to the conduct of wagering activities that contain original signature(s) attesting to the accuracy of the gaming related transaction.

(2) Unless otherwise specified in this part, all other books, records, and documents shall be retained until such time as the accounting records have been audited by the gaming operation's independent certified public accountants.

(3) The above definition shall apply without regards to the medium by which the book, record or document is generated or maintained (paper, computer-generated, magnetic media, etc.).
