
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.21 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier A gaming operations?
###### Table game soft count standards.

(d)(1) The table game soft count shall be performed in a soft count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls.

(2) Access to the count room during the count shall be restricted to members of the drop and count teams, with the exception of authorized observers, supervisors for resolution of problems, and authorized maintenance personnel.

(3) If counts from various revenue centers occur simultaneously in the count room, procedures shall be in effect that prevent the commingling of funds from different revenue centers.

(4) The table game drop boxes shall be individually emptied and counted in such a manner to prevent the commingling of funds between boxes until the count of the box has been recorded.

(i) The count of each box shall be recorded in ink or other permanent form of recordation.

(ii) A second count shall be performed by an employee on the count team who did not perform the initial count.

(iii) Corrections to information originally recorded by the count team on soft count documentation shall be made by drawing a single line through the error, writing the correct figure above the original figure, and then obtaining the initials of at least two count team members who verified the change, unless the count team only has two (2) members in which case the initials of only one (1) verifying member is required.

(5) If cash counters are utilized and the count room table is used only to empty boxes and sort/stack contents, a count team member shall be able to observe the loading and unloading of all cash at the cash counter, including rejected cash.

(6) Table game drop boxes, when empty, shall be shown to another member of the count team, or to another person who is observing the count, or to surveillance.

(7) Orders for fill/credit (if applicable) shall be matched to the fill/credit slips. Fills and credits shall be traced to or recorded on the count sheet.

(8) Pit marker issue and payment slips (if applicable) removed from the table game drop boxes shall either be:

(i) Traced to or recorded on the count sheet by the count team; or

(ii) Totaled by shift and traced to the totals documented by the computerized system. Accounting personnel shall verify the issue/payment slip for each table is accurate.

(9) Foreign currency exchange forms (if applicable) removed from the table game drop boxes shall be reviewed for the proper daily exchange rate and the conversion amount shall be recomputed by the count team. Alternatively, this may be performed by accounting/auditing employees.

(10) The opening/closing table and marker inventory forms (if applicable) shall either be:

(i) Examined and traced to or recorded on the count sheet; or

(ii) If a computerized system is used, accounting personnel can trace the opening/closing table and marker inventory forms to the count sheet. Discrepancies shall be investigated with the findings documented and maintained for inspection.

(11) The count sheet shall be reconciled to the total drop by a count team member who shall not function as the sole recorder.

(12) All members of the count team shall sign the count document or a summary report to attest to their participation in the count.

(13) All drop proceeds and cash equivalents that were counted shall be turned over to the cage or vault cashier (who shall be independent of the count team) or to an authorized person/employee independent of the revenue generation and the count process for verification. Such person shall certify by signature as to the accuracy of the drop proceeds delivered and received.

(14) The count sheet, with all supporting documents, shall be delivered to the accounting department by a count team member or a person independent of the cashiers department. Alternatively, it may be adequately secured (e.g., locked container to which only accounting personnel can gain access) until retrieved by the accounting department.

(15) Access to stored, full table game drop boxes shall be restricted to authorized members of the drop and count teams.
