
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.21 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier A gaming operations?
###### Gaming machine coin drop standards.

(g)(1) A minimum of two employees shall be involved in the removal of the gaming machine drop, at least one of whom is independent of the gaming machine department.

(2) All drop buckets shall be removed only at the time previously designated by the gaming operation and reported to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, except for emergency drops.

(3) Security shall be provided over the buckets removed from the gaming machine drop cabinets and awaiting transport to the count room.

(4) As each machine is opened, the contents shall be tagged with its respective machine number if the bucket is not permanently marked with the machine number. The contents shall be transported directly to the area designated for the counting of such drop proceeds. If more than one trip is required to remove the contents of the machines, the filled carts of coins shall be securely locked in the room designed for counting or in another equivalently secure area with comparable controls. There shall be a locked covering on any carts in which the drop route includes passage out of doors.

(i) Alternatively, a smart bucket system that electronically identifies and tracks the gaming machine number, and facilitates the proper recognition of gaming revenue, shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Each drop bucket in use shall be:

(i) Housed in a locked compartment separate from any other compartment of the gaming machine and keyed differently than other gaming machine compartments; and

(ii) Identifiable to the gaming machine from which it is removed. If the gaming machine is identified with a removable tag that is placed in the bucket, the tag shall be placed on top of the bucket when it is collected.

(6) Each gaming machine shall have drop buckets into which coins or tokens that are retained by the gaming machine are collected. Drop bucket contents shall not be used to make change or pay hand-paid payouts.

(7) The collection procedures may include procedures for dropping gaming machines that have trays instead of drop buckets.
