
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.21 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier A gaming operations?
###### Hard count room personnel.

(h)(1) The weigh/count shall be performed by a minimum of two employees.

(2) At no time during the weigh/count shall there be fewer than two employees in the count room until the drop proceeds have been accepted into cage/vault accountability.

(i) If the gaming machine count is conducted with a continuous mechanical count meter that is not reset during the count and is verified in writing by at least two employees at the start and end of each denomination count, then one employee may perform the wrap.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Count team members shall be rotated on a routine basis such that the count team is not consistently the same two persons more than four (4) days per week. This standard shall not apply to gaming operations that utilize a count team of more than two persons.

(4) The count team shall be independent of transactions being reviewed and counted. The count team shall be independent of the cage/vault departments, unless they are non-supervisory gaming machine employees and perform the laborer function only (A non-supervisory gaming machine employee is defined as a person below the level of gaming machine shift supervisor). A cage cashier may be used if this person is not allowed to perform the recording function. An accounting representative may be used if there is an independent audit of all count documentation.
