
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.21 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier A gaming operations?
###### Gaming machine coin count and wrap standards.

(i)(1) Coins shall include tokens.

(2) The gaming machine coin count and wrap shall be performed in a count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls.

(i) Alternatively, an on-the-floor drop system utilizing a mobile scale shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph, subject to the following conditions:

(A) The gaming operation shall utilize and maintain an effective on-line gaming machine monitoring system, as described in ยง 542.13(m)(3);

(B) Components of the on-the-floor drop system shall include, but not be limited to, a weigh scale, a laptop computer through which weigh/count applications are operated, a security camera available for the mobile scale system, and a VCR to be housed within the video compartment of the mobile scale. The system may include a mule cart used for mobile weigh scale system locomotion.

(C) The gaming operation must obtain the security camera available with the system, and this camera must be added in such a way as to eliminate tampering.

(D) Prior to the drop, the drop/count team shall ensure the scale batteries are charged;

(E) Prior to the drop, a videotape shall be inserted into the VCR used to record the drop in conjunction with the security camera system and the VCR shall be activated;

(F) The weigh scale test shall be performed prior to removing the unit from the hard count room for the start of the weigh/drop/count;

(G) Surveillance shall be notified when the weigh/drop/count begins and shall be capable of monitoring the entire process;

(H) An observer independent of the weigh/drop/count teams (independent observer) shall remain by the weigh scale at all times and shall observe the entire weigh/drop/count process;

(I) Physical custody of the key(s) needed to access the laptop and video compartment shall require the involvement of two persons, one of whom is independent of the drop and count team;

(J) The mule key (if applicable), the laptop and video compartment keys, and the remote control for the VCR shall be maintained by a department independent of the gaming machine department. The appropriate personnel shall sign out these keys;

(K) A person independent of the weigh/drop/count teams shall be required to accompany these keys while they are checked out, and observe each time the laptop compartment is opened;

(L) The laptop access panel shall not be opened outside the hard count room, except in instances when the laptop must be rebooted as a result of a crash, lock up, or other situation requiring immediate corrective action;

(M) User access to the system shall be limited to those employees required to have full or limited access to complete the weigh/drop/count; and

(N) When the weigh/drop/count is completed, the independent observer shall access the laptop compartment, end the recording session, eject the videotape, and deliver the videotape to surveillance.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Access to the count room during the count shall be restricted to members of the drop and count teams, with the exception of authorized observers, supervisors for resolution of problems, and authorized maintenance personnel.

(4) If counts from various revenue centers occur simultaneously in the count room, procedures shall be in effect that prevent the commingling of funds from different revenue centers.

(5) The following functions shall be performed in the counting of the gaming machine drop:

(i) Recorder function, which involves the recording of the gaming machine count; and

(ii) Count team supervisor function, which involves the control of the gaming machine weigh and wrap process. The supervisor shall not perform the initial recording of the weigh/count unless a weigh scale with a printer is used.

(6) The gaming machine drop shall be counted, wrapped, and reconciled in such a manner to prevent the commingling of gaming machine drop coin with coin (for each denomination) from the next gaming machine drop until the count of the gaming machine drop has been recorded. If the coins are not wrapped immediately after being weighed or counted, they shall be secured and not commingled with other coins.

(i) The amount of the gaming machine drop from each machine shall be recorded in ink or other permanent form of recordation on a gaming machine count document by the recorder or mechanically printed by the weigh scale.

(ii) Corrections to information originally recorded by the count team on gaming machine count documentation shall be made by drawing a single line through the error, writing the correct figure above the original figure, and then obtaining the initials of at least two count team members who verified the change.

(A) If a weigh scale interface is used, corrections to gaming machine count data shall be made using either of the following:
