
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.21 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier A gaming operations?
###### Table game drop box key control standards.

(m)(1) Tier A gaming operations shall be exempt from compliance with this paragraph if the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, establishes and the gaming operation complies with procedures that maintain adequate key control and restricts access to the keys.

(2) Procedures shall be developed and implemented to insure that unauthorized access to empty table game drop boxes shall not occur from the time the boxes leave the storage racks until they are placed on the tables.

(3) The involvement of at least two persons independent of the cage department shall be required to access stored empty table game drop boxes.

(4) The release keys shall be separately keyed from the contents keys.

(5) At least two count team members are required to be present at the time count room and other count keys are issued for the count.

(6) All duplicate keys shall be maintained in a manner that provides the same degree of control as is required for the original keys. Records shall be maintained for each key duplicated that indicate the number of keys made and destroyed.

(7) Logs shall be maintained by the custodian of sensitive keys to document authorization of personnel accessing keys.
