
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.31 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier B gaming operations?
###### Table game drop standards.

(b)(1) The setting out of empty table game drop boxes and the drop shall be a continuous process.

(2) At the end of each shift:

(i) All locked table game drop boxes shall be removed from the tables by a person independent of the pit shift being dropped;

(ii) A separate drop box shall be placed on each table opened at any time during each shift or a gaming operation may utilize a single drop box with separate openings and compartments for each shift; and

(iii) Upon removal from the tables, table game drop boxes shall be transported directly to the count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls and locked in a secure manner until the count takes place.

(3) If drop boxes are not placed on all tables, then the pit department shall document which tables were open during the shift.

(4) The transporting of table game drop boxes shall be performed by a minimum of two persons, at least one of whom is independent of the pit shift being dropped.

(5) All table game drop boxes shall be posted with a number corresponding to a permanent number on the gaming table and marked to indicate game, table number, and shift.

(6) Surveillance shall be notified when the drop is to begin so that surveillance may monitor the activities.
