
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.31 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier B gaming operations?
###### Gaming machine bill acceptor count standards.

(f)(1) The gaming machine bill acceptor count shall be performed in a soft count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls.

(2) Access to the count room during the count shall be restricted to members of the drop and count teams, with the exception of authorized observers, supervisors for resolution of problems, and authorized maintenance personnel.

(3) If counts from various revenue centers occur simultaneously in the count room, procedures shall be in effect that prevent the commingling of funds from different revenue centers.

(4) The bill acceptor canisters shall be individually emptied and counted in such a manner to prevent the commingling of funds between canisters until the count of the canister has been recorded.

(i) The count of each canister shall be recorded in ink or other permanent form of recordation.

(ii) Corrections to information originally recorded by the count team on soft count documentation shall be made by drawing a single line through the error, writing the correct figure above the original figure, and then obtaining the initials of at least two count team members who verified the change.

(5) If currency counters are utilized and the count room table is used only to empty canisters and sort/stack contents, a count team member shall be able to observe the loading and unloading of all currency at the currency counter, including rejected currency.

(6) Canisters, when empty, shall be shown to another member of the count team, to another person who is observing the count, or to surveillance, provided that the count is monitored in its entirety by a person independent of the count.

(7) The count sheet shall be reconciled to the total drop by a count team member who shall not function as the sole recorder.

(8) All members of the count team shall sign the count document or a summary report to attest to their participation in the count.

(9) All drop proceeds and cash equivalents that were counted shall be turned over to the cage or vault cashier (who shall be independent of the count team) or to an authorized person/employee independent of the revenue generation and the count process for verification. Such person shall certify by signature as to the accuracy of the drop proceeds delivered and received.

(10) The count sheet, with all supporting documents, shall be delivered to the accounting department by a count team member or a person independent of the cashiers department. Alternatively, it may be adequately secured (e.g., locked container to which only accounting personnel can gain access) until retrieved by the accounting department.

(11) Access to stored bill acceptor canisters, full or empty, shall be restricted to:

(i) Authorized members of the drop and count teams; and

(ii) Authorized personnel in an emergency for the resolution of a problem.
