
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.31 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier B gaming operations?
###### 2

() During the count process, correct the error in the computer system and enter the passwords of at least two count team employees. If this procedure is used, an exception report shall be generated by the computer system identifying the gaming machine number, the error, the correction, and the count team employees attesting to the correction.

(B) [Reserved]

(7) If applicable, the weight shall be converted to dollar amounts before the reconciliation of the weigh to the wrap.

(8) If a coin meter is used, a count team member shall convert the coin count for each denomination into dollars and shall enter the results on a summary sheet.

(9) The recorder and at least one other count team member shall sign the weigh tape and the gaming machine count document attesting to the accuracy of the weigh/count.

(10) All members of the count team shall sign the count document or a summary report to attest to their participation in the count.

(11) All drop proceeds and cash equivalents that were counted shall be turned over to the cage or vault cashier (who shall be independent of the count team) or to an authorized person/employee independent of the revenue generation and the count process for verification. Such person shall certify by signature as to the accuracy of the drop proceeds delivered and received.

(12) All gaming machine count and wrap documentation, including any applicable computer storage media, shall be delivered to the accounting department by a count team member or a person independent of the cashier's department. Alternatively, it may be adequately secured (e.g., locked container to which only accounting personnel can gain access) until retrieved by the accounting department.

(13) If the coins are transported off the property, a second (alternative) count procedure shall be performed before the coins leave the property. Any variances shall be documented.

(14) Variances. Large (by denomination, either $1,000 or 2% of the drop, whichever is less) or unusual (e.g., zero for weigh/count or patterned for all counts) variances between the weigh/count and wrap shall be investigated by management personnel independent of the gaming machine department, count team, and the cage/vault functions on a timely basis. The results of such investigation shall be documented, maintained for inspection, and provided to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority upon request.
