
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.33 What are the minimum internal control standards for surveillance for Tier B gaming operations?

(a) The surveillance system shall be maintained and operated from a staffed surveillance room and shall provide surveillance over gaming areas.

(b) The entrance to the surveillance room shall be located so that it is not readily accessible by either gaming operation employees who work primarily on the casino floor, or the general public.

(c) Access to the surveillance room shall be limited to surveillance personnel, designated employees, and other persons authorized in accordance with the surveillance department policy. Such policy shall be approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority. The surveillance department shall maintain a sign-in log of other authorized persons entering the surveillance room.

(d) Surveillance room equipment shall have total override capability over all other satellite surveillance equipment located outside the surveillance room.

(e) The surveillance system shall include date and time generators that possess the capability to display the date and time of recorded events on video and/or digital recordings. The displayed date and time shall not significantly obstruct the recorded view.

(f) The surveillance department shall strive to ensure staff is trained in the use of the equipment, knowledge of the games, and house rules.

(g) Each camera required by the standards in this section shall be installed in a manner that will prevent it from being readily obstructed, tampered with, or disabled by customers or employees.

(h) Each camera required by the standards in this section shall possess the capability of having its picture displayed on a monitor and recorded. The surveillance system shall include sufficient numbers of monitors and recorders to simultaneously display and record multiple gaming and count room activities, and record the views of all dedicated cameras and motion activated dedicated cameras.

(i) Reasonable effort shall be made to repair each malfunction of surveillance system equipment required by the standards in this section within seventy-two (72) hours after the malfunction is discovered. The Tribal gaming regulatory authority shall be notified of any camera(s) that has malfunctioned for more than twenty-four (24) hours.

(1) In the event of a dedicated camera malfunction, the gaming operation and/or surveillance department shall immediately provide alternative camera coverage or other security measures, such as additional supervisory or security personnel, to protect the subject activity.

(2) [Reserved]
