
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.41 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier C gaming operations?
###### Gaming machine bill acceptor drop standards.

(e)(1) A minimum of three employees shall be involved in the removal of the gaming machine drop, at least one of who is independent of the gaming machine department.

(2) All bill acceptor canisters shall be removed only at the time previously designated by the gaming operation and reported to the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, except for emergency drops.

(3) Surveillance shall be notified when the drop is to begin so that surveillance may monitor the activities.

(4) The bill acceptor canisters shall be removed by a person independent of the gaming machine department then transported directly to the count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls and locked in a secure manner until the count takes place.

(i) Security shall be provided over the bill acceptor canisters removed from the gaming machines and awaiting transport to the count room.

(ii) The transporting of bill acceptor canisters shall be performed by a minimum of two persons, at least one of who is independent of the gaming machine department.

(5) All bill acceptor canisters shall be posted with a number corresponding to a permanent number on the gaming machine.
