
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.41 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier C gaming operations?
###### 2

() During the count process, correct the error in the computer system and enter the passwords of at least two count team employees. If this procedure is used, an exception report shall be generated by the computer system identifying the gaming machine number, the error, the correction, and the count team employees attesting to the correction.

(B) [Reserved]

(7) If applicable, the weight shall be converted to dollar amounts before the reconciliation of the weigh to the wrap.

(8) If a coin meter is used, a count team member shall convert the coin count for each denomination into dollars and shall enter the results on a summary sheet.

(9) The recorder and at least one other count team member shall sign the weigh tape and the gaming machine count document attesting to the accuracy of the weigh/count.

(10) All members of the count team shall sign the count document or a summary report to attest to their participation in the count.

(11) All drop proceeds and cash equivalents that were counted shall be turned over to the cage or vault cashier (who shall be independent of the count team) or to an authorized person/employee independent of the revenue generation and the count process for verification. Such person shall certify by signature as to the accuracy of the drop proceeds delivered and received.
