
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.41 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier C gaming operations?
###### i.e.

(i) Daily, review the report generated by the computerized key security system indicating the transactions performed by the individual(s) that adds, deletes, and changes user's access within the system (, system administrator). Determine whether the transactions completed by the system administrator provide an adequate control over the access to the gaming machine drop and count keys. Also, determine whether any gaming machine drop and count key(s) removed or returned to the key cabinet by the system administrator was properly authorized.

(ii) For at least one day each month, review the report generated by the computerized key security system indicating all transactions performed to determine whether any unusual gaming machine drop and count key removals or key returns occurred.

(iii) At least quarterly, review a sample of users that are assigned access to the gaming machine drop and count keys to determine that their access to the assigned keys is adequate relative to their job position.

(iv) All noted improper transactions or unusual occurrences are investigated with the results documented.

(4) Quarterly, an inventory of all count room, drop box release, storage rack and contents keys is performed, and reconciled to records of keys made, issued, and destroyed. Investigations are performed for all keys unaccounted for, with the investigation being documented.
