
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.41 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count for Tier C gaming operations?
###### e.g.,

(4) If the weigh scale has a zero adjustment mechanism, it shall be physically limited to minor adjustments (weight of a bucket) or physically situated such that any unnecessary adjustments to it during the weigh process would be observed by other count team members.

(5) The weigh scale and weigh scale interface (if applicable) shall be tested by a person or persons independent of the cage, vault, and gaming machine departments and count team at least quarterly. At least annually, this test shall be performed by internal audit in accordance with the internal audit standards. The result of these tests shall be documented and signed by the person or persons performing the test.

(6) Prior to the gaming machine count, at least two employees shall verify the accuracy of the weigh scale with varying weights or with varying amounts of previously counted coin for each denomination to ensure the scale is properly calibrated (varying weights/coin from drop to drop is acceptable).

(7) If a mechanical coin counter is used (instead of a weigh scale), the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with procedures that are equivalent to those described in paragraphs (u)(4), (u)(5), and (u)(6) of this section.

(8) If a coin meter count machine is used, the count team member shall record the machine number denomination and number of coins in ink on a source document, unless the meter machine automatically records such information.

(i) A count team member shall test the coin meter count machine before the actual count to ascertain if the metering device is functioning properly with a predetermined number of coins for each denomination.

(ii) [Reserved]
