
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 542 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
##### ยง 542.43 What are the minimum internal control standards for surveillance for a Tier C gaming operation?
###### Currency and coin.

(u)(1) The surveillance system shall monitor and record with sufficient clarity all areas where currency or coin may be stored or counted.

(2) Audio capability of the soft count room shall also be maintained.

(3) The surveillance system shall provide for:

(i) Coverage of scales shall be sufficiently clear to view any attempted manipulation of the recorded data.

(ii) Monitoring and recording of the table game drop box storage rack or area by either a dedicated camera or a motion-detector activated camera.

(iii) Monitoring and recording of all areas where coin may be stored or counted, including the hard count room, all doors to the hard count room, all scales and wrapping machines, and all areas where uncounted coin may be stored during the drop and count process.

(iv) Monitoring and recording of soft count room, including all doors to the room, all table game drop boxes, safes, and counting surfaces, and all count team personnel. The counting surface area must be continuously monitored and recorded by a dedicated camera during the soft count.

(v) Monitoring and recording of all areas where currency is sorted, stacked, counted, verified, or stored during the soft count process.
