
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.8 What are the minimum internal control standards for bingo?
###### Authorization and signatures.

(5)(i) At least two agents must authorize, sign, and witness all manual prize payouts above $1,200, or a lower threshold as authorized by management and approved by the TGRA.

(ii) Manual prize payouts above the following threshold (or a lower threshold, as authorized by management and approved by TGRA) must require one of the two signatures and verifications to be a supervisory or management employee independent of the operation of Class II Gaming System bingo:

(A) $5,000 for a Tier A facility;

(B) $10,000 at a Tier B facility;

(C) $20,000 for a Tier C facility; or

(D) $50,000 for a Tier C facility with over $100,000,000 in gross gaming revenues.

(iii) The predetermined thresholds, whether set at the MICS level or lower, must be authorized by management, approved by the TGRA, documented, and maintained.

(iv) A Class II gaming system may substitute for one authorization/signature verifying, validating or authorizing a winning card, but may not substitute for a supervisory or management authorization/signature.

(6) Payout records, including manual payout records, must include the following information:

(i) Date and time;

(ii) Amount of the payout (alpha & numeric for player interface payouts); and

(iii) Bingo card identifier or player interface identifier.

(iv) Manual payout records must also include the following:

(A) Game name or number;

(B) Description of pattern covered, such as cover-all or four corners;

(C) Signature of all, but not less than two, agents involved in the transaction;

(D) For override transactions, verification by a supervisory or management agent independent of the transaction; and

(E) Any other information necessary to substantiate the payout.
