
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.8 What are the minimum internal control standards for bingo?
###### Removal, retirement and/or destruction.

(2)Procedures must be implemented to retire or remove any or all associated components of a Class II gaming system from operation. Procedures must include the following:

(i) For player interfaces and components that accept cash or cash equivalents:

(A) Coordinate with the drop team to perform a final drop;

(B) Collect final accounting information such as meter readings, drop and payouts;

(C) Remove and/or secure any or all associated equipment such as locks, card reader, or ticket printer from the retired or removed component; and

(D) Document removal, retirement, and/or destruction.

(ii) For removal of software components:

(A) Purge and/or return the software to the license holder; and

(B) Document the removal.

(iii) For other related equipment such as blowers, cards, interface cards:

(A) Remove and/or secure equipment; and

(B) Document the removal or securing of equipment.

(iv) For all components:

(A) Verify that unique identifiers, and descriptions of removed/retired components are recorded as part of the retirement documentation; and

(B) Coordinate with the accounting department to properly retire the component in the system records.

(v) Where the TGRA authorizes destruction of any Class II gaming system components, procedures must be developed to destroy such components. Such procedures must include the following:

(A) Methods of destruction;

(B) Witness or surveillance of destruction;

(C) Documentation of all components destroyed; and

(D) Signatures of agent(s) destroying components attesting to destruction.
