
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.8 What are the minimum internal control standards for bingo?
###### Vouchers.

(i)(1) Controls must be established and procedures implemented to:

(i) Verify the authenticity of each voucher redeemed.

(ii) If the voucher is valid, verify that the patron is paid the appropriate amount.

(iii) Document the payment of a claim on a voucher that is not physically available or a voucher that cannot be validated such as a mutilated, expired, lost, or stolen voucher.

(iv) Retain payment documentation for reconciliation purposes.

(v) For manual payment of a voucher of $500 or more, require a supervisory employee to verify the validity of the voucher prior to payment.

(2) Vouchers paid during a period while the voucher system is temporarily out of operation must be marked "paid" by the cashier.

(3) Vouchers redeemed while the voucher system was temporarily out of operation must be validated as expeditiously as possible upon restored operation of the voucher system.

(4) Paid vouchers must be maintained in the cashier's accountability for reconciliation purposes.

(5) Unredeemed vouchers can only be voided in the voucher system by supervisory employees. The accounting department will maintain the voided voucher, if available.

(j) All relevant controls from ยง 543.20, Information and Technology will apply.
