
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.10 What are the minimum internal control standards for card games?
###### Promotional progressive pots and pools.

(g)(1) All funds contributed by players into the pools must be returned when won in accordance with posted rules, and no commission or administrative fee may be withheld.

(i) The payout may be in the form of personal property, such as a car.

(ii) A combination of a promotion and progressive pool may be offered.

(2) The conditions for participating in current card game promotional progressive pots and/or pools must be prominently displayed or available for patron review at the gaming operation.

(3) Individual payouts for card game promotional progressive pots and/or pools that are $600 or more must be documented at the time of the payout to include the following:

(i) Patron's name;

(ii) Date of payout;

(iii) Dollar amount of payout and/or nature and dollar value of any non-cash payout;

(iv) The signature of the agent completing the transaction attesting to the disbursement of the payout; and

(v) Name of contest/tournament.

(4) If the cash (or cash equivalent) payout for the card game promotional progressive pot and/or pool is less than $600, documentation must be created to support accountability of the bank from which the payout was made.

(5) Rules governing current promotional pools must be conspicuously posted in the card room and/or available in writing for patron review. The rules must designate:

(i) The amount of funds to be contributed from each pot;

(ii) What type of hand it takes to win the pool;

(iii) How the promotional funds will be paid out;

(iv) How/when the contributed funds are added to the pools; and

(v) Amount/percentage of funds allocated to primary and secondary pools, if applicable.

(6) Promotional pool contributions must not be placed in or near the rake circle, in the drop box, or commingled with gaming revenue from card games or any other gambling game.

(7) The amount of the pools must be conspicuously displayed in the card room.

(8) At least once each day that the game is offered, the posted pool amount must be updated to reflect the current pool amount.

(9) At least once each day that the game is offered, agents independent of the card room must reconcile the increases to the posted pool amount to the cash previously counted or received by the cage.

(10) All decreases to the pool must be properly documented, including a reason for the decrease.

(11) Promotional funds removed from the card game must be placed in a locked container.

(i) Agents authorized to transport the locked container are precluded from having access to the contents keys.

(ii) The contents key must be maintained by a department independent of the card room.

(iii) At least once a day, the locked container must be removed by two agents, one of whom is independent of the card games department, and transported directly to the cage or other secure room to be counted, recorded, and verified, prior to accepting the funds into cage accountability.
