
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.14 What are the minimum internal control standards for patron deposit accounts and cashless systems?
###### Patron deposits, withdrawals and adjustments.

(c)(1) Prior to the patron making a deposit or withdrawal from a patron deposit account, the agent or cashless system must verify the patron deposit account, the patron identity, and availability of funds. A personal identification number (PIN) is an acceptable form of verifying identification.

(2) Adjustments made to the patron deposit accounts must be performed by an agent.

(3) When a deposit, withdrawal, or adjustment is processed by an agent, a transaction record must be created containing the following information:

(i) Same document number on all copies;

(ii) Type of transaction, (deposit, withdrawal, or adjustment);

(iii) Name or other identifier of the patron;

(iv) The unique account identifier;

(v) Patron signature for withdrawals, unless a secured method of access is utilized;

(vi) For adjustments to the account, the reason for the adjustment;

(vii) Date and time of transaction;

(viii) Amount of transaction;

(ix) Nature of deposit, withdrawal, or adjustment (cash, check, chips); and

(x) Signature of the agent processing the transaction.

(4) When a patron deposits or withdraws funds from a patron deposit account electronically, the following must be recorded:

(i) Date and time of transaction;

(ii) Location (player interface, kiosk);

(iii) Type of transaction (deposit, withdrawal);

(iv) Amount of transaction; and

(v) The unique account identifier.

(5) Patron deposit account transaction records must be available to the patron upon reasonable request.

(6) If electronic funds transfers are made to or from a gaming operation bank account for patron deposit account funds, the bank account must be dedicated and may not be used for any other types of transactions.
