
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.17 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count?
###### Count team.

(c)Controls must be established and procedures implemented to ensure security of the count and the count room to prevent unauthorized access, misappropriation of funds, forgery, theft, or fraud. Such controls must include the following:

(1) For Tier A and B operations, all counts must be performed by at least two agents. For Tier C operations, all counts must be performed by at least three agents.

(2) For Tier A and B operations, at no time during the count can there be fewer than two count team agents in the count room until the drop proceeds have been accepted into cage/vault accountability. For Tier C operations, at no time during the count can there be fewer than three count team agents in the count room until the drop proceeds have been accepted into cage/vault accountability.

(3) For Tier A and B operations, count team agents must be rotated on a routine basis such that the count team is not consistently the same two agents more than four days per week. This standard does not apply to gaming operations that utilize a count team of more than two agents. For Tier C operations, count team agents must be rotated on a routine basis such that the count team is not consistently the same three agents more than four days per week. This standard does not apply to gaming operations that utilize a count team of more than three agents.

(4) Functions performed by count team agents must be rotated on a routine basis.

(5) Count team agents must be independent of the department being counted. A cage/vault agent may be used if they are not the sole recorder of the count and do not participate in the transfer of drop proceeds to the cage/vault. An accounting agent may be used if there is an independent audit of all count documentation.
