
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.17 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count?
###### Card game drop standards.

(d)Controls must be established and procedures implemented to ensure security of the drop process. Such controls must include the following:

(1) Surveillance must be notified when the drop is to begin so that surveillance may monitor the activities.

(2) At least two agents must be involved in the removal of the drop box, at least one of whom is independent of the card games department.

(3) Once the drop is started, it must continue until finished.

(4) All drop boxes may be removed only at the time previously designated by the gaming operation and reported to the TGRA. If an emergency drop is required, surveillance must be notified before the drop is conducted and the TGRA must be informed within a timeframe approved by the TGRA.

(5) At the end of each shift:

(i) All locked card game drop boxes must be removed from the tables by an agent independent of the card game shift being dropped;

(ii) For any tables opened during the shift, a separate drop box must be placed on each table, or a gaming operation may utilize a single drop box with separate openings and compartments for each shift; and

(iii) Card game drop boxes must be transported directly to the count room or other equivalently secure area by a minimum of two agents, at least one of whom is independent of the card game shift being dropped, until the count takes place.

(6) All tables that were not open during a shift and therefore not part of the drop must be documented.

(7) All card game drop boxes must be posted with a number corresponding to a permanent number on the gaming table and marked to indicate game, table number, and shift, if applicable.
