
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.17 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count?
###### Player interface and financial instrument storage component drop standards.

(e)(1) Surveillance must be notified when the drop is to begin so that surveillance may monitor the activities.

(2) At least two agents must be involved in the removal of the player interface storage component drop, at least one of whom is independent of the player interface department.

(3) All financial instrument storage components may be removed only at the time previously designated by the gaming operation and reported to the TGRA. If an emergency drop is required, surveillance must be notified before the drop is conducted and the TGRA must be informed within a timeframe approved by the TGRA.

(4) The financial instrument storage components must be removed by an agent independent of the player interface department, then transported directly to the count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls and locked in a secure manner until the count takes place.

(i) Security must be provided for the financial instrument storage components removed from player interfaces and awaiting transport to the count room.

(ii) Transportation of financial instrument storage components must be performed by a minimum of two agents, at least one of whom is independent of the player interface department.

(5) All financial instrument storage components must be posted with a number corresponding to a permanent number on the player interface.
