
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.17 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count?
###### Player interface financial instrument count standards.

(g)(1) Access to stored full financial instrument storage components must be restricted to:

(i) Authorized members of the drop and count teams; and

(ii) In an emergency, authorized persons for the resolution of a problem.

(2) The player interface financial instrument count must be performed in a count room or other equivalently secure area with comparable controls.

(3) Access to the count room during the count must be restricted to members of the drop and count teams, with the exception of authorized observers, supervisors for resolution of problems, and authorized maintenance personnel.

(4) If counts from various revenue centers occur simultaneously in the count room, procedures must be in effect that prevent the commingling of funds from different revenue centers.

(5) The count team must not have access to amount-in or bill-in meter amounts until after the count is completed and the drop proceeds are accepted into the cage/vault accountability.

(6) Count equipment and systems must be tested, and the results documented, before the first count begins, to ensure the accuracy of the equipment.

(7) If a currency counter interface is used:

(i) It must be adequately restricted to prevent unauthorized access; and

(ii) The currency drop figures must be transferred via direct communications line or computer storage media to the accounting department.

(8) The financial instrument storage components must be individually emptied and counted so as to prevent the commingling of funds between storage components until the count of the storage component has been recorded.

(i) The count of each storage component must be recorded in ink or other permanent form of recordation.

(ii) Coupons or other promotional items not included in gross revenue may be recorded on a supplemental document by the count team members or accounting personnel. All single-use coupons must be cancelled daily by an authorized agent to prevent improper recirculation.

(9) If currency counters are utilized, a count team member must observe the loading and unloading of all currency at the currency counter, including rejected currency.

(10) Two counts of the currency rejected by the currency counter must be recorded per interface terminal as well as in total. Rejected currency must be posted to the player interface from which it was collected.

(11) Storage components, when empty, must be shown to another member of the count team, to another agent who is observing the count, or to surveillance, provided that the count is monitored in its entirety by an agent independent of the count.

(12) Procedures must be implemented to ensure that any corrections to the count documentation are permanent, identifiable and the original, corrected information remains legible. Corrections must be verified by two count team agents.

(13) The count sheet must be reconciled to the total drop by a count team member who may not function as the sole recorder, and variances must be reconciled and documented. This standard does not apply to vouchers removed from the financial instrument storage components.

(14) All count team agents must sign the report attesting to their participation in the count.

(15) A final verification of the total drop proceeds, before transfer to cage/vault, must be performed by the at least two agents, one of whom is a supervisory count team member and the other a count team agent.

(i) Final verification must include a comparison of currency counted totals against the currency counter/system report, if a counter/system is used.

(ii) Any unresolved variances must be documented and the documentation must remain a part of the final count record forwarded to accounting.

(iii) This verification does not require a complete recount of the drop proceeds but does require a review sufficient to verify the total drop proceeds being transferred.

(iv) The two agents must sign the report attesting to the accuracy of the total drop proceeds verified.

(v) All drop proceeds and cash equivalents that were counted must be turned over to the cage or vault cashier (who must be independent of the count team) or to an agent independent of the revenue generation and the count process for verification. Such cashier or agent must certify, by signature, the amount of the drop proceeds delivered and received. Any unresolved variances must be reconciled, documented, and/or investigated by accounting/revenue audit.

(16) After certification by the agent receiving the funds, the drop proceeds must be transferred to the cage/vault.

(i) The count documentation and records must not be transferred to the cage/vault with the drop proceeds.

(ii) The cage/vault agent must not have knowledge or record of the drop proceeds total before it is verified.

(iii) All count records must be forwarded to accounting secured and accessible only by accounting agents.

(iv) The cage/vault agent receiving the transferred drop proceeds must sign the count sheet attesting to the verification of the total received, and thereby assuming accountability of the drop proceeds, and ending the count.

(v) Any unresolved variances between total drop proceeds recorded on the count room report and the cage/vault final verification during transfer must be documented and investigated.

(17) The count sheet, with all supporting documents, must be delivered to the accounting department by a count team member or agent independent of the cashiers department. Alternatively, it may be adequately secured and accessible only by accounting department.
