
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.17 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count?
###### Kiosk count standards.

(i)(1) Access to stored full kiosk financial instrument storage components and currency cassettes must be restricted to:

(i) Authorized agents; and

(ii) In an emergency, authorized persons for the resolution of a problem.

(2) The kiosk count must be performed in a secure area, such as the cage or count room.

(3) If counts from various revenue centers and kiosks occur simultaneously in the count room, procedures must be in effect that prevent the commingling of funds from the kiosks with any revenue centers.

(4) The kiosk financial instrument storage components and currency cassettes must be individually emptied and counted so as to prevent the commingling of funds between kiosks until the count of the kiosk contents has been recorded.

(i) The count of each box must be recorded in ink or other permanent form of recordation.

(ii) Coupons or other promotional items not included in gross revenue (if any) may be recorded on a supplemental document. All single-use coupons must be cancelled daily by an authorized agent to prevent improper recirculation.

(5) Procedures must be implemented to ensure that any corrections to the count documentation are permanent, identifiable, and the original, corrected information remains legible. Corrections must be verified by two agents.
