
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.17 What are the minimum internal control standards for drop and count?
###### Controlled keys.

(j)Controls must be established and procedures implemented to safeguard the use, access, and security of keys in accordance with the following:

(1) Each of the following requires a separate and unique key lock or alternative secure access method:

(i) Drop cabinet;

(ii) Drop box release;

(iii) Drop box content; and

(iv) Storage racks and carts used for the drop.

(2) Access to and return of keys or equivalents must be documented with the date, time, and signature or other unique identifier of the agent accessing or returning the key(s).

(i) For Tier A and B operations, at least two (2) drop team agents are required to be present to access and return keys. For Tier C operations, at least three (3) drop team agents are required to be present to access and return keys.

(ii) For Tier A and B operations, at least two (2) count team agents are required to be present at the time count room and other count keys are issued for the count. For Tier C operations, at least three (two for card game drop box keys in operations with three tables or fewer) count team agents are required to be present at the time count room and other count keys are issued for the count.

(3) Documentation of all keys, including duplicates, must be maintained, including:

(i) Unique identifier for each individual key;

(ii) Key storage location;

(iii) Number of keys made, duplicated, and destroyed; and

(iv) Authorization and access.

(4) Custody of all keys involved in the drop and count must be maintained by a department independent of the count and the drop agents as well as those departments being dropped and counted.

(5) Other than the count team, no agent may have access to the drop box content keys while in possession of storage rack keys and/or release keys.

(6) Other than the count team, only agents authorized to remove drop boxes are allowed access to drop box release keys.

(7) Any use of keys at times other than the scheduled drop and count must be properly authorized and documented.

(8) Emergency manual keys, such as an override key, for computerized, electronic, and alternative key systems must be maintained in accordance with the following:

(i) Access to the emergency manual key(s) used to access the box containing the player interface drop and count keys requires the physical involvement of at least three agents from separate departments, including management. The date, time, and reason for access, must be documented with the signatures of all participating persons signing out/in the emergency manual key(s);

(ii) The custody of the emergency manual keys requires the presence of two agents from separate departments from the time of their issuance until the time of their return; and

(iii) Routine physical maintenance that requires access to the emergency manual key(s), and does not involve accessing the player interface drop and count keys, only requires the presence of two agents from separate departments. The date, time, and reason for access must be documented with the signatures of all participating agents signing out/in the emergency manual key(s).

(9) Controls must be established and procedures implemented to safeguard the use, access, and security of keys for kiosks.
