
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.18 What are the minimum internal control standards for the cage, vault, kiosk, cash and cash equivalents?
###### Check cashing.

(b)(1) If checks are cashed at the cage, the controls must provide for security and integrity. For each check cashing transaction, the agent(s) conducting the transaction must:

(i) Verify the patron's identity;

(ii) Examine the check to ensure it includes the patron's name, current address, and signature;

(iii) For personal checks, verify the patron's check cashing authority and record the source and results in accordance with management policy; however

(iv) If a check guarantee service is used to guarantee the transaction and the procedures required by the check guarantee service are followed, then the above requirements do not apply.

(2) When counter checks are issued, the following must be included on the check:

(i) The patron's name and signature;

(ii) The dollar amount of the counter check;

(iii) Patron's bank name, bank routing, and account numbers;

(iv) Date of issuance; and

(v) Signature of the agent approving the counter check transaction.

(3) Checks that are not deposited in the normal course of business, as established by management, (held checks) are subject to ยง 543.15 lines of credit standards.

(4) When traveler's checks or other guaranteed drafts, such as cashier's checks, are presented, the cashier must comply with the examination and documentation procedures as required by the issuer.

(5) If a third party check cashing or guarantee service is used, the examination and documentation procedures required by the service provider apply, unless otherwise provided by tribal law or regulation.
