
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.18 What are the minimum internal control standards for the cage, vault, kiosk, cash and cash equivalents?
###### Cage and vault accountability.

(c)(1) All transactions that flow through the cage must be summarized for each work shift of the cage and must be supported by documentation.

(2) Increases and decreases to the total cage inventory must be verified, supported by documentation, and recorded. Documentation must include the date and shift, the purpose of the increase/decrease, the agent(s) completing the transaction, and the person or department receiving the cage funds (for decreases only).

(3) The cage and vault inventories (including coin rooms) must be counted independently by at least two agents, attested to by signature, and recorded in ink or other permanent form at the end of each shift during which the activity took place. These agents must make individual counts to compare for accuracy and maintain individual accountability. All variances must be documented and investigated.

(4) The gaming operation must establish and comply with a minimum bankroll formula to ensure the gaming operation maintains cash or cash equivalents (on hand and in the bank, if readily accessible) in an amount sufficient to satisfy obligations to the gaming operation's patrons as they are incurred.
