
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.18 What are the minimum internal control standards for the cage, vault, kiosk, cash and cash equivalents?
###### Kiosks.

(d)(1) Kiosks must be maintained on the cage accountability and must be counted independently by at least two agents, documented, and reconciled for each increase or decrease to the kiosk inventory.

(2) Currency cassettes must be counted and filled by an agent and verified independently by at least one agent, all of whom must sign each cassette.

(3) Currency cassettes must be secured with a lock or tamper resistant seal and, if not placed inside a kiosk, must be stored in a secured area of the cage/vault.

(4) The TGRA or the gaming operation, subject to the approval of the TGRA, must develop and implement physical security controls over the kiosks. Controls should address the following: forced entry, evidence of any entry, and protection of circuit boards containing programs.

(5) With regard to cashless systems, the TGRA or the gaming operation, subject to the approval of the TGRA, must develop and implement procedures to ensure that communications between the kiosk and system are secure and functioning.

(6) The following reconciliation reports must be available upon demand for each day, shift, and drop cycle (this is not required if the system does not track the information, but system limitation(s) must be noted):

(i) Starting balance dollar amount per financial instrument;

(ii) Starting balance number of items per financial instrument;

(iii) Dollar amount per financial instrument issued;

(iv) Number of items per financial instrument issued;

(v) Dollar amount per financial instrument redeemed;

(vi) Number of items per financial instrument redeemed;

(vii) Dollar amount per financial instrument increases;

(viii) Number of items per financial instrument increases;

(ix) Dollar amount per financial instrument decreases;

(x) Number of items per financial instrument decreases;

(xi) Ending balance dollar amount per financial instrument; and

(xii) Ending balance number of items per financial instrument.
