
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.20 What are the minimum internal control standards for information technology and information technology data?
###### Supervision.

(a)(1) Controls must identify the supervisory agent in the department or area responsible for ensuring that the department or area is operating in accordance with established policies and procedures.

(2) The supervisory agent must be independent of the operation of Class II games.

(3) Controls must ensure that duties are adequately segregated and monitored to detect procedural errors and to prevent the concealment of fraud.

(4) Information technology agents having access to Class II gaming systems may not have signatory authority over financial instruments and payout forms and must be independent of and restricted from access to:

(i) Financial instruments;

(ii) Accounting, audit, and ledger entries; and

(iii) Payout forms.

(b) As used in this section only, a system is any computerized system that is integral to the gaming environment. This includes, but is not limited to, the server and peripherals for Class II gaming system, accounting, surveillance, essential phone system, and door access and warning systems.

(c) Class II gaming systems' logical and physical controls. Controls must be established and procedures implemented to ensure adequate:

(1) Control of physical and logical access to the information technology environment, including accounting, voucher, cashless and player tracking systems, among others used in conjunction with Class II gaming;

(2) Physical and logical protection of storage media and its contents, including recovery procedures;

(3) Access credential control methods;

(4) Record keeping and audit processes; and

(5) Departmental independence, including, but not limited to, means to restrict agents that have access to information technology from having access to financial instruments.
