
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.20 What are the minimum internal control standards for information technology and information technology data?
###### User controls.

(f)(1) Systems, including application software, must be secured with passwords or other means for authorizing access.

(2) Management personnel or agents independent of the department being controlled must assign and control access to system functions.

(3) Access credentials such as passwords, PINs, or cards must be controlled as follows:

(i) Each user must have his or her own individual access credential;

(ii) Access credentials must be changed at an established interval approved by the TGRA; and

(iii) Access credential records must be maintained either manually or by systems that automatically record access changes and force access credential changes, including the following information for each user:

(A) User's name;

(B) Date the user was given access and/or password change; and

(C) Description of the access rights assigned to user.

(4) Lost or compromised access credentials must be deactivated, secured or destroyed within an established time period approved by the TGRA.

(5) Access credentials of terminated users must be deactivated within an established time period approved by the TGRA.

(6) Only authorized agents may have access to inactive or closed accounts of other users, such as player tracking accounts and terminated user accounts.
