
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.21 What are the minimum internal control standards for surveillance?
###### Surveillance equipment and control room(s).

(b)Controls must be established and procedures implemented that include the following:

(1) For Tier A, the surveillance system must be maintained and operated from a secured location, such as a locked cabinet. For Tiers B and C, the surveillance system must be maintained and operated from a staffed surveillance operation room(s).

(2) The surveillance operation room(s) must be secured to prevent unauthorized entry.

(3) Access to the surveillance operation room(s) must be limited to surveillance agents and other authorized persons.

(4) Surveillance operation room(s) access logs must be maintained.

(5) Surveillance operation room equipment must have total override capability over all other satellite surveillance equipment.

(6) Power loss to the surveillance system:

(i) For Tier A, in the event of power loss to the surveillance system, alternative security procedures, such as additional supervisory or security agents, must be implemented immediately.

(ii) For Tier B and C, in the event of power loss to the surveillance system, an auxiliary or backup power source must be available and capable of providing immediate restoration of power to the surveillance system to ensure that surveillance agents can observe all areas covered by dedicated cameras.

(7) The surveillance system must record an accurate date and time stamp on recorded events. The displayed date and time must not significantly obstruct the recorded view.

(8) All surveillance agents must be trained in the use of the equipment, games, and house rules.

(9) Each camera required by the standards in this section must be installed in a manner that will prevent it from being readily obstructed, tampered with, or disabled.

(10) The surveillance system must:

(i) Have the capability to display all camera views on a monitor;

(ii) Include sufficient numbers of recording devices to record the views of all cameras required by this section;

(iii) Record all camera views; and

(iv) For Tier B and C only, include sufficient numbers of monitors to simultaneously display gaming and count room activities.

(11) A periodic inspection of the surveillance systems must be conducted. When a malfunction of the surveillance system is discovered, the malfunction and necessary repairs must be documented and repairs initiated within seventy-two (72) hours.

(i) If a dedicated camera malfunctions, alternative security procedures, such as additional supervisory or security agents, must be implemented immediately.

(ii) The TGRA must be notified of any surveillance system and/or camera(s) that have malfunctioned for more than twenty-four (24) hours and the alternative security measures being implemented.
