
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart C - Grants to Indian Tribes for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
###### ยง 23.21 Noncompetitive tribal government grants.
####### Eligibility requirements for tribal governments.

(b)The tribal government(s) of any Indian tribe or consortium of tribes may submit a properly documented application for a grant to the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director. A tribe may neither submit more than one application for a grant nor be the beneficiary of more than one grant under this subpart.

(1) Through the publication of aannouncement at the outset of the implementation of the noncompetitive grant award process during which tribal applications will be solicited, the Assistant Secretary will notify eligible tribal applicants under this subpart of the amount of core funds available for their ICWA program. The funding levels will be based on the service area population to be served. Upon the receipt of this notice from the Agency Superintendent or appropriate Regional Director, tribal applicants shall submit a completed ICWA application no later than 60 days after the receipt of this notice.

(2) A grant to be awarded under this subpart shall be limited to the tribal governing body(ies) of the tribe(s) to be served by the grant.

(3) For purposes of eligibility for newly recognized or restored Indian tribes without established reservations, such tribes shall be deemed eligible to apply for grants under this subpart to provide ICWA services within those service areas legislatively identified for such tribes.

(4) A grantee under this subpart may make a subgrant to another Indian tribe or an Indian organization subject to the provisions of ยง 23.45.
