
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 543 - MINIMUM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS FOR CLASS II GAMING
##### ยง 543.24 What are the minimum internal control standards for auditing revenue?
###### i.e.

(iii) Twice annually, a count must be performed of all funds in all gaming areas (cages, vaults, and booths (including reserve areas), kiosks, cash-out ticket redemption machines, and change machines. Count all chips and tokens by denomination and type. Count individual straps, bags, and imprest banks on a sample basis. Reconcile all amounts counted to the amounts recorded on the corresponding accountability forms to ensure that the proper amounts are recorded. Maintain documentation evidencing the amount counted for each area and the subsequent comparison to the corresponding accountability form. The count must be completed within the same gaming day for all areas.

(A) Counts must be observed by an individual independent of the department being counted. It is permissible for the individual responsible for the funds to perform the actual count while being observed.

(B) Internal audit may perform and/or observe the two counts.

(iv) At least annually, select a sample of invoices for chips and tokens purchased, and trace the dollar amount from the purchase invoice to the accountability document that indicates the increase to the chip or token inventory to ensure that the proper dollar amount has been recorded.

(v) At each business year end, create and maintain documentation evidencing the amount of the chip/token liability, the change in the liability from the previous year, and explanations for adjustments to the liability account including any adjustments for chip/token float.

(vi) At least monthly, review a sample of returned checks to determine that the required information was recorded by cage agent(s) when the check was cashed.

(vii) At least monthly, review exception reports for all computerized cage systems for propriety of transactions and unusual occurrences. The review must include, but is not limited to, voided authorizations. All noted improper transactions or unusual occurrences identified must be investigated and the results documented.

(viii) Daily, reconcile all parts of forms used to document increases/decreases to the total cage inventory, investigate any variances noted, and document the results of such investigations.
