
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart C - Grants to Indian Tribes for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
###### ยง 23.23 Tribal government application contents.

(a) The appropriate Regional Director shall, subject to the tribe's fulfillment of the mandatory application requirements and the availability of appropriated funds, make a grant to the tribal governing body of a tribe or consortium of tribes eligible to apply for a grant under this subpart.

(b) The following mandatory tribal application requirements must be submitted to the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director in accordance with the timeframe established in ยง 23.21 (b) of this subpart:

(1) A current tribal resolution requesting a grant by the Indian tribe(s) to be served by the grant. If an applicant is applying for a grant benefiting more than one tribe (consortium), an authorizing resolution from each tribal government to be served must be included. The request must be in the form of a current tribal resolution by the tribal governing body and shall include the following information:

(i) The official name of tribe(s) applying for the grant and who will directly benefit from or receive services from the grant;

(ii) The proposed beginning and ending dates of the grant;

(iii) A provision stating that the resolution will remain in effect for the duration of the program or until the resolution expires or is rescinded; and

(iv) The signature of the authorized representative of the tribal government and the date thereof.

(2) A completed Application for Federal Assistance form, SF-424.

(3) A narrative needs assessment of the social problems or issues affecting the resident Indian population to be served; the geographic area(s) to be served; and estimated number of resident Indian families and/or persons to receive benefits or services from the program.

(4) A comprehensive developmental multi-year plan in narrative form describing what specific services and/or activities will be provided each program year and addressing the above-identified social problems or issues. At a minimum, the plan must include:

(i) The program goals and objectives, stated in measurable terms, to be achieved through the grant;

(ii) A narrative description of how Indian families and communities will benefit from the program; and

(iii) The methodology, including culturally defined approaches, and procedures by which the tribe(s) will accomplish the identified goals and objectives.

(5) An internal monitoring system to measure progress and accomplishments, and to assure that the quality and quantity of actual performance conforms to the requirements of the grant.

(6) A staffing plan that is consistent with the implementation of the above-described program plan of operation and the procedures necessary for the successful delivery of services.

(i) The plan must include proposed key personnel; their qualifications, training or experience relevant to the services to be provided; responsibilities; Indian preference criteria for employment; and position descriptions.
