
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart C - Grants to Indian Tribes for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
###### ยง 23.23 Tribal government application contents.
####### et seq.

(ii) In accordance with 25 U.S.C. 3201(Pub. L. 101-630), title IV, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, grantees shall conduct character and background investigations of those personnel identified in that statute. Grantees must initiate character and background investigations of said personnel prior to their actual employment, and complete the investigations in a timely manner.

(7) A program budget and budget narrative justification submitted on an annual basis for the amount of the award and supported by the proposed plan, appropriate program services and activities for the applicable grant year.

(8) Identification of any consultants and/or subgrantees the applicant proposes to employ; a description of the consultant and/or subgrantee services to be rendered; the qualifications and experience in performing the identified services; and the basis for the cost and amount to be paid for such services.

(9) A certification by a licensed accountant that the bookkeeping and accounting procedures which the tribe(s) uses or intends to use meet existing Federal standards for grant management and administration specified at ยง 23.46.

(10) A system for managing property and recordkeeping which complies with subpart D of 43 CFR part 2 implementing the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) and with existing Federal requirements for grants at 25 CFR 276.5 and 276.11, including the maintenance and safeguarding of direct service case records on families and/or individuals served by the grant.

(11) A listing of equipment, facilities, and buildings necessary to carry out the grant program. Liability insurance coverage for buildings and their contents is recommended for grantees under this subpart.

(12) Pursuant to the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, tribal programs shall comply with the mandatory Drug-Free Workplace Certification, a regulatory requirement for Federal grant recipients.

(c) Continued annual funding of an ICWA program under this subpart shall be contingent upon the existing grant program receiving a satisfactory program evaluation from the area social services office for the previous year of operation. A copy of this evaluation must be submitted together with an annual budget and budget narrative justification in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section. Minimum standards for receiving a satisfactory evaluation shall include:

(1) The timely submission of all fiscal and programmatic reports;

(2) A narrative program report indicating work accomplished in accordance with the applicant's approved multi-year plan and, if applicable, a description of any modification in programs or activities to be funded in the next fiscal year; and

(3) The implementation of mutually determined corrective action measures, if applicable.
