
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart D - Grants to Off-Reservation Indian Organizations for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
###### § 23.31 Competitive off-reservation grant process.

(a) Grant application procedures and related information may be obtained from the Regional Director designated at § 23.11 for processing ICWA notices for the state in which the applicant is located. Pre-award and ongoing technical assistance of off-reservation Indian organization grantees shall be provided in accordance with § 23.42.

(b) Prior to the beginning of or during the applicable year(s) in which grants for off-reservation programs will be awarded competitively, the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs shall publish in thean announcement of the grant application process for the year(s), including program priorities or special considerations (if any), applicant eligibility criteria, the required application contents, the amount of available funding and evaluation criteria for off-reservation programs.

(c) Based on the announcement described in paragraph (b) of this section, an off-reservation applicant shall prepare a multi-year developmental application in accordance with § 23.33 of this subpart. To be considered in the area competitive review and scoring process, a complete application must be received by the deadline announced in theby the Regional Director designated at § 23.11 for processing ICWA notices for the state in which the applicant is located.

(d) Eligibility requirements for off-reservation Indian organizations. The Secretary or his/her designee shall, contingent upon the availability of funds, make a multi-year grant under this subpart for an off-reservation program when officially requested by a resolution of the board of directors of the Indian organization applicant, upon the applicant's fulfillment of the mandatory application requirements and upon the applicant's successful competition pursuant to § 23.33 of this subpart.

(e) A grant under this subpart for an off-reservation Indian organization shall be limited to the board of directors of the Indian organization which will administer the grant.

(f) Continued annual funding of a multi-year grant award to an off-reservation ICWA program under this subpart shall be contingent upon the grantee's fulfillment of the requirements delineated at § 23.33 (e).

(g) Monitoring and program reporting requirements for grants awarded to off-reservation Indian organizations under this subpart are delineated at §§ 23.44 and 23.47.
