
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart D - Grants to Off-Reservation Indian Organizations for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
###### ยง 23.34 Review and decision on off-reservation applications by Regional Director.
####### Area office competitive review and decision for off-reservation applications.

(b)Upon receipt of an application for an off-reservation grant under this part requiring the approval of the Regional Director, the Regional Director shall:

(1) Establish and convene an area review committee, chaired by a person qualified by knowledge, training and experience in the delivery of Indian child and family services.

(2) Review the area office certification form required in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) Review the application in accordance with the competitive review procedures prescribed in ยง 23.33. An application shall not receive approval for funding under the area competitive review and scoring process unless a review of the application determines that it:

(i) Contains all the information required in ยง 23.33 which must be received by the close of the application period. Modifications of the grant application received after the close of the application period shall not be considered in the competitive review process.

(ii) Receives at least the established minimum score in an area competitive review, using the application selection criteria and scoring process set out in ยง 23.33. The minimum score shall be established by the Central Office prior to each application period and announced in thefor the applicable grants year(s).

(4) Approve or disapprove the application and promptly notify the applicant in writing of the approval or disapproval of the application. If the application is disapproved, the Regional Director shall include in the written notice the specific reasons therefore.

(c) The actual funding amounts for the initial grant year shall be subject to appropriations available nationwide and the continued funding of an approved off-reservation grant application under subpart D of this part shall be subject to available funds received by the respective area office for the applicable grant year. Initial funding decisions and subsequent decisions with respect to funding level amounts for all approved grant applications under this part shall be made by the Regional Director.
