
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Compliance and Enforcement Provisions
#### PART 573 - COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
##### § 573.4 When may the Chair issue an order of temporary closure?
###### When an order of temporary closure may issue.

(a)Simultaneously with or subsequently to the issuance of a notice of violation under § 573.3, the Chair may issue an order of temporary closure of all or part of an Indian gaming operation if one or more of the following substantial violations are present:

(1) The respondent fails to correct violations within:

(i) The time permitted in a notice of violation; or

(ii) A reasonable time after a tribe is served with notice of a violation.

(2) A gaming operation fails to pay the annual fee required by 25 CFR part 514.

(3) A gaming operation operates for business without a tribal ordinance or resolution that the Chair has approved under part 522 of this chapter.

(4) A gaming operation operates for business without a license from a tribe, in violation of part 522 or part 559 of this chapter.

(5) A gaming operation operates for business without either background investigations completed for, or tribal licenses granted to, all key employees and primary management officials, as provided in § 558.3(b) of this chapter.

(6) There is clear and convincing evidence that a gaming operation defrauds a tribe.

(7) A management contractor operates for business without a contract that the Chair has approved under part 533 of this chapter.

(8) Any person knowingly submits false or misleading information to the Commission or a tribe in response to any provision of the Act, this chapter, or a tribal ordinance or resolution that the Chair has approved under part 522 of this chapter.

(9) A gaming operation refuses to allow an authorized representative of the Commission or an authorized tribal official to enter or inspect a gaming operation, in violation of § 571.5 or § 571.6 of this chapter, or of a tribal ordinance or resolution approved by the Chair under part 522 of this chapter.

(10) A tribe fails to suspend a license upon notification by the Commission that a primary management official or key employee does not meet the standards for employment contained in § 556.5 of this chapter, in violation of § 558.4 of this chapter.

(11) A gaming operation operates class III games in the absence of a tribal-state compact that is in effect, in violation of 25 U.S.C. 2710(d).

(12) A gaming operation's facility is constructed, maintained, or operated in a manner that threatens the environment or the public health and safety, in violation of a tribal ordinance or resolution approved by the Chair under part 522 of this chapter.

(13) A gaming facility operates on Indian lands not eligible for gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.
