
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Appeal Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 581 - MOTIONS IN APPEAL PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COMMISSION
##### ยง 581.6 How do I file a motion for reconsideration?

(a) Motions for reconsideration may be made only for final decisions on appeal and will only be granted if a party can establish that:

(1) New and material evidence is now available that, despite the party's due diligence, was not available when the record closed;

(2) The final decision was based on an erroneous interpretation of law or there has been an intervening change in the controlling law; or

(3) A manifest injustice, clearly apparent or obvious on its face, will occur if the motion for reconsideration is not granted.

(b) A motion for reconsideration and accompanying brief shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the Commission's final decision and shall be served on all parties, limited participants, and intervenors, if any. A motion for reconsideration shall explain the circumstances requiring reconsideration.

(c) A party may file only one motion and accompanying brief for reconsideration.

(d) Opposition briefs shall be filed within 20 days after the motion is filed.

(e) A reply brief to the brief in opposition shall be filed within 15 days of service of the brief in opposition.

(f) The Commission shall issue a decision on reconsideration within 30 days of the filing of the reply brief or of the expiration of the time to file a reply brief, whichever is later. The Commission shall issue a brief statement of the reason(s) for its decision.

(g) If the Commission grants the motion, it may reverse or modify the decision, in whole or in part, from which reconsideration is sought or may remand to the Chair for further consideration.

(h) The filing of a motion for reconsideration will not stay the effect of any decision or order and will not affect the finality of any decision or order for purposes of judicial review, unless so ordered by the Commission.
