
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart E - General and Uniform Grant Administration Provisions and Requirements
###### ยง 23.47 Reports and availability of information to Indians.

(a) Any tribal government or off-reservation Indian organization receiving a grant under this part shall make general programmatic information and reports concerning that grant available to the Indian people it serves or represents. Access to this information may be requested in writing and shall be made available within 10 days of receipt of the request. Except as required by title IV of Pub. L. 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, grantees shall hold confidential all information obtained from persons receiving services from the program, and shall not release such information without the individual's written consent. Information may be disclosed in a manner which does not identify or lead to the identification of particular individuals.

(b) Grantees shall submit Standard Form 269 or 269A on a quarterly and an annual basis to report their status of funds by the dates specified in the grant award document.

(c) Grantees shall furnish and submit the following written quarterly and annual program reports by the dates specified in the award document:

(1) Quarterly and annual statistical and narrative program performance reports which shall include, but need not be limited to, the following;

(i) A summary of actual accomplishments and significant activities as related to program objectives established for the grant period;

(ii) The grantee's evaluation of program performance using the internal monitoring system submitted in their application;

(iii) Reports on all significant ICWA direct service grant activities including but not limited to the following information:

(A) Significant title II activities;

(B) Data reflecting numbers of individuals referred for out-of-home placements, number of individuals benefiting from title II services and types of services provided, and

(C) Information and referral activities.

(iv) Child abuse and neglect statistical reports and related information as required by 25 U.S.C. 2434, Pub. L. 99-570, the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986;

(v) A summary of problems encountered or reasons for not meeting established objectives;

(vi) Any deliverable or product required in the grant; and

(vii) Additional pertinent information when appropriate.

(2) The BIA may negotiate for the provision of other grant-related reports not previously identified.

(d) Events may occur between scheduled performance reporting dates which have significant impact on the grant-supported activity. In such cases, the grantee must inform the awarding agency as soon as problems, delays, adverse conditions, or serious incidents giving rise to liability become known and which will materially impair its ability to meet the objectives of the grant.
