
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Appeal Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 584 - APPEALS BEFORE A PRESIDING OFFICIAL
##### ยง 584.3 How do I appeal a notice of violation, proposed civil fine assessment, order of temporary closure, the Chair's decision to void or modify a management contract, the Commission's proposal to remove a certificate of self-regulation, the Chair's decision to approve or object to a tribal gaming regulatory authority's adoption of alternate standards from those required by the Commission's minimum internal control standards and/or technical standards, and a notice of late fees and late fee assessments?

(a) Within 30 days after the Chair serves his or her action or decision, or the Commission serves its intent to remove a certificate of self-regulation, the appellant must file a notice of appeal with the Commission. The notice of appeal must reference the action or decision from which the appeal is taken.

(b) Within 10 days after filing the notice of appeal, the appellant shall file with the Commission:

(1) A list of the names of proposed witnesses who will present oral testimony at the hearing, the general nature of their expected testimony, and whether a closed hearing is requested and the reason(s) therefor; and

(2) A brief that states succinctly the relief sought and the ground(s) in support thereof, which may include supporting documentation and evidence in the form of affidavits.

(c) A party that has filed a notice of appeal may waive the right to an oral hearing before a presiding official and instead elect to have the matter determined by the Commission solely on the basis of written submissions. Appeals based on written submissions are governed by part 585 of this subchapter. If there is more than one party that has filed a notice of appeal, and any party that has filed a notice of appeal elects a hearing before a presiding official, the entire matter will proceed before a presiding official.

(d) The Chair may file a response brief and a list of the names of proposed witnesses who will present oral testimony at the hearing, the general nature of their expected testimony, and whether a closed hearing is requested and the reason(s) therefor, within 10 days after service of the appellate brief.
