
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter III - National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter H - Appeal Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 584 - APPEALS BEFORE A PRESIDING OFFICIAL
##### § 584.8 What is the hearing process?

(a) Once designated by the Commission, the presiding official shall schedule the matter for hearing. The appellant may appear at the hearing personally, through counsel, or through an authorized representative consistent with the requirements of § 580.3 of this subchapter. The appellant, the Chair, and any intervenor shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present an oral argument. At the discretion of the presiding official, a hearing under this section may include an opportunity to submit oral and documentary evidence and cross-examine witnesses.

(b) When holding a hearing under this part, the presiding official shall:

(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;

(2) Issue subpoenas authorized by the Commission;

(3) Rule on offers of proof and receive relevant evidence;

(4) Authorize exchanges of information (including depositions and interrogatories in accordance with 25 CFR part 571, subpart C of this chapter) among the parties when to do so would expedite the proceeding;

(5) Establish and administer the course of the hearing;

(6) When appropriate, hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties;

(7) At any conference held pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, require the attendance of at least one representative from each party who has authority to negotiate the resolution of issues in controversy;

(8) Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters;

(9) Recommend decisions in accordance with § 584.12; and

(10) Take other actions consistent with this part that are authorized by the Commission.

(c) The presiding official may order the record to be kept open for a reasonable period of time following the hearing (normally 10 days), during which time the parties may make additional submissions to the record, except that if the subject of the appeal is an order of temporary closure under § 573.4 of this chapter, the record will be kept open for a maximum of 10 days. Thereafter, the record shall be closed and the hearing shall be deemed concluded. Within 30 days after the record closes, the presiding official shall issue a recommended decision in accordance with § 584.12, except that if the subject of the appeal is an order of temporary closure under § 573.4 of this chapter, the presiding official shall issue a recommended decision within 20 days after the record closes.
