
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart C - Criminal Procedure
###### ยง 11.300 Complaints.

(a) A complaint is a written statement of the essential facts charging that a named individual(s) has committed a particular offense. All criminal prosecutions shall be initiated by a complaint filed with the court by a law enforcement officer and sworn to by a person having personal knowledge of the offense.

(b) Complaints shall contain:

(1) The signature of the complaining witness, or witnesses, sworn before a magistrate, a court clerk, a prosecutor, or any law enforcement officer.

(2) A written statement by the complaining witness or witnesses having personal knowledge of the violation, describing in ordinary language the nature of the offense committed including the time and place as nearly as may be ascertained.

(3) The name or description of the person alleged to have committed the offense.

(4) A description of the offense charged and the section of the code allegedly violated.

(c) Complaints must be submitted without unnecessary delay by a law enforcement officer to the prosecutor and, if he or she approves, to a judge to determine whether an arrest warrant or summons should be issued.

(d) When an accused has been arrested without a warrant, a complaint shall be filed forthwith with the court for review as to whether probable cause exists to hold the accused, and in no instance shall a complaint be filed later than at the time of arraignment.
