
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Human Services
#### PART 23 - INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT
##### Subpart E - General and Uniform Grant Administration Provisions and Requirements
###### ยง 23.53 Cancellation.

(a) The grants officer may cancel any grant, in whole or in part, at any time before the date of completion whenever it is determined that the grantee has:

(1) Materially failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the grant;

(2) Violated the rights as specified in ยง 23.49 or endangered the health, safety, or welfare of any person; or

(3) Been grossly negligent in, or has mismanaged the handling or use of funds provided under the grant.

(b) When it appears that cancellation of the grant will become necessary, the grants officer shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of this possibility. This written notice shall advise the grantee of the reason for the possible cancellation and the corrective action necessary to avoid cancellation. The grants officer shall also offer, and shall provide, if requested by the grantee, any technical assistance which may be required to effect the corrective action. The grantee shall have 60 days in which to effect this corrective action before the grants officer provides notice of intent to cancel the grant as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Upon deciding to cancel for cause, the grants officer shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of that decision, the reason for the cancellation, and the effective date. The Regional Director or his/her designated official shall also provide a hearing for the grantee before cancellation. However, the grants officer may immediately cancel the grant, upon notice to the grantee, if the grants officer determines that continuance of the grant poses an immediate threat to safety. In this event, the Regional Director or his/her designated official shall provide a hearing for the grantee within 10 days of the cancellation.

(d) The hearing referred to in paragraph (c) of this section shall be conducted as follows:

(1) The grantee affected shall be notified, in writing, at least 10 days before the hearing. The notice should give the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing.

(2) A written record of the hearing shall be made. The record shall include written statements submitted at the hearing or within five days following the hearing.
