
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart A - General Policies and Instructions
##### ยง 700.1 Purpose.

The purpose of this part is to implement provisions of the Act of December 22, 1974 (Pub. L. 93-531, 88 Stat. 1712 as amended by Pub. L. 96-305, 94 Stat. 929), hereinafter referred to as the Act, in accordance with the following objectives-

(a) To insure that persons displaced as a result of the Act are treated fairly, consistently, and equitably so that these persons will not suffer the disproportionate adverse, social, economic, cultural and other impacts of relocation.

(b) To set forth the regulations and procedures by which the Commission shall operate; and implement the provisions of the Act.

(c) To establish standards consistent with those established in the implementation of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1894, 42 U.S.C. 4601 et. seq., Pub. L. 91-646), hereinafter referred to as the Uniform Act.

(d) To insure that owners of habitations and other improvements to be acquired pursuant to the Act are treated fairly and consistently, to encourage and expedite acquisition by agreements with such owners, to minimize litigation, relieve congestion in the courts and to promote public confidence in the Commission's relocation program.

(e) To facilitate development of a relocation plan according to the Act and carry out the directed relocation as promptly and fairly as possible, with a minimum of hardship and discomfort to the relocation, in accordance with the Act.
