
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - General Relocation Requirements
##### ยง 700.143 Payments for divorced or separated relocatees.
###### General.

The following considerations apply to certified eligible heads of household who are legally separated or divorced and intend to establish separate eligibility.

(a) Determination of benefits. Eligibility for relocation benefits is determined as of the time that the Relocation Contract is signed.

(1) If the divorce or separation took place before benefits were first applied for, the spouse who vacated the habitation will not be eligible for benefits and all relocation benefits will accrue to the spouse remaining in occupancy as head of the household remaining to be relocated.

(2) If both husband and wife are in possession of the habitation at the time that benefits are first applied for, and are divorced or separated prior to signing of a Relocation Contract, both husband and wife may qualify separately for benefits if each meets the requirements of eligibility under these regulations.

(3) If both husband and wife are in possession of the habitation at the time a Relocation Contract is signed but are divorced or separated prior to occupancy of the replacement dwelling, only one benefit will be paid to the household. Such benefits (including the assistance payment, moving expenses and replacement dwelling benefit) and the purchase price of the habitation and improvements may be prorated between husband and wife in such manner as they may agree in writing so long as such proration is consistent with the terms of the Relocation Contract. Such proration may also be made by a court of competent jurisdiction. In the absence of an agreement between the parties or a court order, any necessary prorations shall be made by the Commission.

(b) For purposes of this section, a head of household shall be considered as married even though living apart from his or her spouse unless legally separated under a decree or separate maintenance.
