
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart D - Moving and Related Expenses, Temporary Emergency Moves
##### ยง 700.175 Temporary emergency moves.
###### Conditions under which move to temporary housing accommodations may be approved.

(b)The move of a family or individual into temporary housing accommodations may be approved by the Commission only if the following conditions are met.

(1) The move will be undertaken because:

(i) It is necessary because of an emergency as determined by the Commission; or

(ii) The individual or family is subject to conditions hazardous to his or his family's health or safety.

(2) The temporary housing is decent, safe, and sanitary.

(3) The Commission shall have determined that within twelve (12) months of the date of the temporary move, replacement housing meeting Commission-approved standards will be available for occupancy by the persons temporarily rehoused.

(4) Prior to the move, the Commission shall provide in writing assurance to each head of household that:

(i) Replacement housing will be available at the earliest possible time but in any event no later than twelve (12) months from the date of the move to temporary housing.

(ii) Replacement housing will be made available on a priority basis, to the individual or family who has been temporarily rehoused.

(iii) The move to temporary rehousing will not, in any way, affect a claimant's eligibility for a replacement housing payment nor deprive him of the same choice or replacement housing units that would have been made available had the temporary move not been made.

(iv) The Commission will pay all costs in connection with the move to temporary housing, including any increased housing costs.
