
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Replacement Housing Payments
##### ยง 700.183 Determination of replacement housing benefit.
###### Amount of benefit.

(a)The replacement housing benefit for a certified eligible head-of-household is an amount not to exceed fifty-five thousand dollars ($55,000) for a household of three or less and not to exceed sixty-six thousand dollars ($66,000) for a household of four or more. Subject to such other requirements of these regulations as may apply, the replacement housing benefit shall be calculated as follows;

(1) The amount of the fair market value of the habitation and improvements purchased from an eligible head-of-household pursuant to subpart B of this part shall be applied first toward the cost of a replacement dwelling.

(2) An additional amount shall be added to the value of the habitation and improvements to equal the cost of a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling.

(3) The total value of the replacement dwelling shall not exceed the amount of the replacement housing benefit specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) In the event the cost of providing a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling is less than the fair market value of the habitation and improvements purchased from an eligible head-of-household pursuant to subpart B of this part, the difference shall be paid to that head-of-household.

(b) The Commission shall, on or before the first Friday in April of each fiscal year, after consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, annually increase, decrease or leave unadjusted the above limitations on replacement housing benefits to reflect changes in housing or development and construction costs, other than costs of land, during the preceding year. In determining whether to increase or decrease the replacement housing benefit limitations set forth above, the Commission shall consider the following:

(1) The most recent percentage rate of increase or decrease in single family housing construction costs reported by HUD. (General Prototype Housing Costs For One to Four Family Dwelling Units).

(2) The most recent Boecht Building Cost Modifier.

(3) The experience of relocatee families in obtaining replacement housing within the current benefits.

(4) The cost of available replacement housing which meets Commission standards as set forth in these regulations.

(5) Such other available information which the Commission deems appropriate and which is relevant to a determination of whether replacement housing benefits should be increased or decreased to reflect change in housing or development and construction costs during the preceding year.

(c) If the owner retains ownership of his dwelling, moves it from the acquired site, and reoccupies it on a replacement site, the purchase price of the replacement dwelling shall be considered to be the sum of-

(1) The cost of the replacement site, if any; plus

(2) The moving and restoration expenses; plus

(3) The costs, if any, incurred to make the unit a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling; but not to exceed the above limitation on total replacement home benefits.
