
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Inspection of Records
##### ยง 700.241 Request for records.
###### Form of request.

(b)(1) Requests invoking the Freedom of Information Act shall be in writing.

(2)(i) A request must reasonably describe the records requested. A request reasonably describes the records requested if it will enable an employee of the Commission familiar with the subject area of the request to locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort. If such information is available, the request should identify the subject matter of the record, the date when it was made, the place where it was made, and the person or office that made it, the present custodian of the record, and any other information which will assist in location of the requested records. If the request involves a matter known by the requester to be in litigation, the request should also state the case name and court hearing the case.

(ii) If the description of a record sought is insufficient to allow identification and location of the record, the response denying the request on this ground shall so state and, to the extent possible, indicate what additional descriptive information, if any, would assist in location of the record.

(3) A request shall state the maximum amount of fees which the requester is willing to pay. Requesters are notified that under ยง 700.251, the failure to state willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated by the Commission will delay running of the time limit and delay processing of the request, if the responsible official anticipates that the fees chargeable may exceed $25.00.

(4)(i) To insure expeditious handling, requests shall be prominently marked, both on the envelope and on the face of the request, with the legend "FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST." The failure of a request to bear such a legend will not disqualify a request from processing under the procedures in this subpart if the request otherwise meets the requirments of this section. A request not bearing the legend "FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST" will not, however, be deemed to have been received for purposes of the running of the time limit set out in ยง 700.245 until it has been identified by bureau personnel as a Freedom of Information request and marked by them with this legend.

(ii) Commission personnel identifying a communication from the public not bearing the legend "FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST" as a request otherwise meeting the requirements of this section shall immediately (A) mark the communication with the legend "FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST." (B) date the request to reflect the date on which it was identified, and (C) take steps to assure proper processing of the request under the procedures in this subpart.
