
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart J - Inspection of Records
##### § 700.245 Time limits on processing of initial requests.
###### Treatment of delay as denial.

(e)(1) If no determination has been reached at the end of the ten (10) day period for deciding an initial request, or the last extension thereof, the requester may deem his request denied and may exercise a right of appeal in accordance with the provisions of § 700.247.

(2) When no determination can be reached within the applicable time limit, the responsible official shall nevertheless continue to process the request. On expiration of the time limit, the responsible official shall inform the requester of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be expected to be dispatched, and of his right to treat the delay as a denial for purposes of appeal to the Commission in accordance with § 700.247. The requester may be asked to consider delaying use of his right to appeal until the date on which the determination is expected to be dispatched. If the requester so agrees, he is deemed not to have treated the failure to respond within the applicable time limit as a denial for purposes of the running of the twenty (20) working-day appeal period set out in § 700.247. If a determination of the request is not issued by the new agreed upon date, or if the request is denied in whole or part, the requester will have available his full right of appeal under § 700.247, including the entire twenty (20) working-day period for filing of the appeal.
