
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart K - Privacy Act
##### ยง 700.277 Requests for access to records: Submission.
###### Form of request.

(b)(1) A request for access to records subject to the Privacy Act shall be in writing.

(2) To insure expeditious handling, the request shall be prominently marked, both on the envelope and on the face of the request, with the legend "PRIVACY ACT REQUEST FOR ACCESS."

(3) The request shall specify whether the requester seeks all of the records contained in the system which relate to him or only some portion thereof. If the requester seeks only a portion of the records which relate to him, the request shall reasonably describe the specific records sought.

(4) If the requester seeks to have copies of the requested records made, the request shall state the maximum amount of copying fees which the requester is willing to pay. A request which does not state the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay will be treated as a request to inspect the requested records. Requesters are further notified that under ยง 700.279(d) the failure to state willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated by the Commission will delay processing of a request.

(5) The request shall supply such identifying information, if any, as is called for in the system notice describing the system.

(6) Requests failing to meet the requirements of this paragraph shall be returned to the requester with a written notice advising the request of the deficiency in the request.
