
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart L - Determination of Eligibility, Hearing and Administrative Review (Appeals)
##### ยง 700.311 Hearing scheduling and documents.
###### Provided,

(c) Written notice of the Applicant's objections, if any, to the time, date, or place fixed for the hearing must be filed with the Presiding Officer at least five days before the date set for the hearing. Such notice of objections shall state the reasons therefor and suggested alternatives. Discretion as to any changes in the date, time, or place of the hearing lies entirely with the Presiding Officer,that the 30 (thirty) day notice period as provided in paragraph (b) of this section shall be observed unless waived in writing by the applicant or his representative.

(d) All hearings shall be held within thirty days after Commission receipt of the applicant's request therefor unless this limit is extended by the Presiding Officer.

(e) All hearings shall be conducted at the Commission office in Flagstaff, Arizona, unless otherwise designated by the Presiding Officer.

(f) All time periods in this regulation include Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. If any time period would end on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, it will be extended to the next consecutive day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.

(g) A copy of each document filed in a proceeding under this section must be filed with the Commission and may be served by the filing party by mail on any other party or parties in the case. In all cases where a party is represented by an attorney or representative, such attorney or representative will be recognized as fully controlling the case on behalf of his client, and service of any document relating to the proceeding shall be made upon such attorney or representative, which service shall suffice as if made upon the Applicant. Where a party is represented by more than one attorney or representative, service upon one of the attorneys or representatives shall be sufficient.

(h) Hearings will be recorded verbatim and transcripts thereof shall be made when requested by any parties; costs of transcripts shall be borne by the requesting parties unless waived according to ยง 700.313(a)(5).

(i) Applicants may be represented by a licensed attorney or by an advocate licensed to practice in any Hopi or Navajo Tribal Court.
