
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart N - Discretionary Funds
##### ยง 700.457 Assistance to match or pay 30% of grants, contracts or other expenditures.

(a) The purpose of applications for financial assistance under this section shall be to aid individuals subject to relocation under the Act and to assist the host communities, towns, cities, or other entities in adjusting to and meeting the needs of the relocatees. For this purpose, the discretionary fund may be used to match or pay not to exceed 30% (thirty percent) of any grant, contract, or other expenditure of the Federal Government, State or local government, tribal government or chapter, or private organization for the benefit of the Navajo or Hopi Tribe, if the Commission determines that such grant, contract, or expenditure would significantly assist the Commission in carrying out its responsibility or assist either tribe in meeting the burdens imposed by this Act.

(b) An "other expenditure" under this subsection is defined as cooperative agreements, direct provision of services, or in-kind contributions. The Commission may match or pay not to exceed 30% (thirty percent) of another expenditure through a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.

(c) Eligible applicants under this section for a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement are defined as States, local government, the Navajo and Hopi Tribes, tribal chapters or villages and profit and nonprofit organizations.

(d) Total Federal financial assistance under this section may reach 100% (one hundred percent) if the applicant receives 70% (seventy percent) Federal funding from Federal agencies other than the Commission.

(e) When another Federal agency is a primary source of financial assistance for an applicant, the Commission may, pursuant to an interagency agreement, transfer funds to the primary Federal agency providing financial assistance to the applicant.

(f) The Commission may, pursuant to an interagency agreement, transfer not to exceed 10% (ten percent) of the funds available under this subpart to another Federal agency directly assisting relocatees if such agency's activities would accomplish the purpose of paragraph (a) of this section. Financial assistance transferred to accomplish an eligible activity under paragraph (a) of this section may not exceed the funding limitation of paragraph (a) of this section.

(g) An applicant may apply for financial assistance under this section in accordance with the funding limitations described in paragraph (a) for the purpose of undertaking a technical feasibility study of a construction project or any major project with a total funding of over $200,000 (two hundred thousand dollars) or any dollar amount which the Commission may prescribe at some future time.
