
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart N - Discretionary Funds
##### § 700.459 Assistance for demonstration projects and for provision of related facilities and services.

(a) The purpose of applications for financial assistance under this section shall be to aid individuals subject to relocation under the Act. For this purpose, the discretionary fund may be used by the Commission to engage or participate either directly through Federal activities, or by cooperative agreement, grant, or contract in demonstration efforts to employ innovative energy or other technologies in providing housing and related facilities and services in the relocation and resettlement of individuals under this Act.

(b) Applicants eligible under this section to receive grants, cooperative agreements or contracts are: states, local governments, the Navajo and Hopi Tribes, tribal chapters, profit and nonprofit organizations, and individuals.

(c) Applicants for assistance under this section may receive up to 100% (one hundred percent) project or program funding from the Commission, however, the Commission may specify whether applications for certain types of programs or projects under this section require matching funding from the applicant.

(d) Activities described in § 700.457(a) and paragraph (a) of this section may be provided by the Commission through in-house activities which receive financial assistance under this section.

(e) The Commission may, pursuant to an interagency agreement, transfer not to exceed 10% (ten percent) of the funds available under this subpart to another Federal agency directly assisting relocatees if such agency's activities would accomplish the purpose of §§ 700.457(a) and 700.459(a).

(f) An applicant may apply for financial assistance under this section for the purpose of undertaking a technical feasibility study of a construction project, or any major project with a total planned funding of over $200,000, (two hundred thousand dollars) or any dollar amount which the Commission may prescribe at some future time.
