
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart N - Discretionary Funds
##### § 700.463 Requirements for applications.

(a) Applicants shall submit preapplications for funding assistance. The preapplication shall be due by the closing date published by the Commission, and shall consist of:

(1) Standard Form 424;

(2) A brief narrative not to exceed one page describing how the program or project will meet the priorities established by the Commission pursuant to § 700.457 or § 700.459.

(b) The Commission shall respond to each preapplication, and shall request each person submitting an acceptable preapplication to submit an application.

(c) Applications for financial assistance for a project or program may be submitted by the due date established by the Commission for a particular funding cycle. Applications received after the due date will be considered for the next funding cycle, although the Commission, at its discretion, may select such a project for funding under the current cycle. An original and 5 (five) copies of each application must be submitted to the Commission. Applications shall be submitted on such forms as the Commission may prescribe in conformity with OMB circulars A102 or A110.

(d) Applications under § 700.457 for matching financial assistance not to exceed 30% of another expenditure, shall include:

(1) A detail sheet showing the sources of matching funds, including both cash and in-kind contributions, and documentation that the applicant has fulfilled all of the requirements of any Federal agency, state or local government or chapter, or private organization from which the financial assistance is also requested; and

(2) A narrative statement which includes an explanation of how the application would aid relocatees and assist the host communities, towns, cities, or other entities in adjusting to and meeting the needs of relocatees.

(e) Applications for financial assistance under § 700.459 must justify the proposed project or program as a demonstration effort in order to be eligible for 100% funding.

(f) Applications shall contain a statement of how the applicant plans to comply with the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450e) and the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596) as amended (25 U.S.C. 452-457).
