
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart O - Employee Responsibility and Conduct
##### ยง 700.507 Responsibilities.
###### Office of the Commission and Office of Executive Direction.

(a)(1) The Chairman of the Commission shall prepare and submit to the Office of Personnel Management for approval, standards of employee conduct which implement requirements of law, Executive Order 11222 and provisions of 5 CFR part 905; and prescribe additional standards of ethical and other conduct and reporting requirements that are appropriate to the agency. After OPM approval, the Chairman shall submit the agency's regulations to thefor publication. These requirements also apply to any amendments to agency regulations.

(2) The Commissioners shall appoint a Designated Agency Ethics Official and Deputy Ethics Official in accordance with 5 CFR 738.202(b). Responsibilities of these officials are described below in ยง 735.15.

(3) The Executive Director shall ensure that the regulations published under this part are disseminated to all Commission personnel and that staff are familiar with and understand the standards of conduct and statutes governing conflicts of interest and post Federal employment restrictions.

(4) The Executive Director shall ensure that disciplinary or remedial action is taken in the case of all agency personnel who violate these standards or related laws and regulations, and against supervisors who fail to carry out their responsibilities in taking disciplinary or remedial action in such cases.
