
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart O - Employee Responsibility and Conduct
##### ยง 700.511 Statements of employment and financial interests.
###### Employees required to file statements.

(a)(1) Members of the Commission shall submit Financial Disclosure Reports (SF-278) to the Deputy Ethics Counselor of the Department of Interior, according to instructions received from that office. Issues of real or apparent conflict of interest which involve employees of the Senior Executive Service shall be resolved by the Ethics Officer of the Department of the Interior.

(2) The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall submit SF-278 to the Office of Government Ethics for review.

(3) The employee appointed as Deputy Ethics Official and incumbents of the positions listed below shall file NHIRC form 738.1F with the Designated Agency Ethics Official:

(i) Executive Director.

(ii) General Counsel.

(iii) Assistant Director for Management Operations.

(iv) Assistant Director for Relocation Operations.

(v) Chief, Technical Services Division.

(vi) Chief, Realty Division.

(vii) Chief, Advisory Services Division.

(viii) Chief, Office of Research, Planning and Evaluation.

(ix) Procurement/Fiscal Officer.

(x) Realty Specialists.

(xi) Construction Inspectors.

(4) The Designated Agency Ethics Official may require Statements of Employment and Financial Interest from employees in other specified positions, if analysis of duties and responsibilities shows the positions meet the criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) Special Government Employees shall file NHIRC form 738.2F with the Designated Agency Ethics Official prior to beginning employment or service with the Commission. The Designated Agency Ethics Official may waive this requirement if the duties of the position held by the special Government employee are of a nature or at such a level of responsibility that the submission of the statement by the incumbent is not necessary to protect the integrity of the Commission or the Government.
