
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart O - Employee Responsibility and Conduct
##### ยง 700.519 Gifts, entertainment and favors.

(a) Acceptance of gratuities, including gifts, entertainment and favors, (no matter how innocently tendered or received) from those who have or seek business dealings with the Commission, is prohibited as it may be a source of embarrassment to the recipient, and may impair public confidence in the integrity of the conduct of the Government's business. It is emphasized that prohibited conflicts and apparent conficts of interest can sometimes arise even from relationships and transactions that the persons concerned perceive as inconsequential.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, Commission personnel and their spouses, minor children and members of their households shall not solicit nor accept, either directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity, favor, entertainment loan or any other thing of monetary value from any person who:

(1) Has, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or financial relations with the Commission,

(2) Conducts operations or activities that are regulated by the Commission or significantly affected by Commission decisions, or

(3) Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or non-performance of the employee's official duty.

(c) Employees are specifically prohibited from accepting gifts or favors from vendors, contractors, builders, realtors, tribal officials or other individuals with whom Commission employees do business. This prohibition extends to the acceptance of meals and refreshments offered by individuals conducting or seeking business with the Commission whether during duty or non-duty hours.

(d) The following circumstances are excepted from the prohibitions listed above:

(1) An employee may accept unsolicited advertising or promotional material with the name of the company imprinted, such as pencils, calendars and similar items of nominal intrinsic value.

(2) An employee may accept transportation and meals provided by a contractor in connection with official business when arrangements for Government or commercial transportation or meals are clearly impracticable and the supervisor has granted prior approval.

(3) An employee may accept an invitation extended by a relocatee to attend a housewarming, potluck, accept a meal and refreshments while traveling on the reservation, or similar social activity when circumstances would make it rude for the employee to refuse.

(4) Other circumstances may arise in which it would be to the Commission's advantage for an employee to participate in activities ordinarily prohibited. In such cases, the employee shall consult with his or her supervisor about the course of action to be followed. If prior consultation is not possible, the employee shall exercise prudent judgement and promptly inform the supervisor of the activity.
