
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart O - Employee Responsibility and Conduct
##### ยง 700.557 Political activity.

(a) Regulations on the political activity of Federal employees can be found in 5 U.S.C. 73. In general, the law and the rules prohibit using official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting its results, and taking an active part in partisan political management or partisan political campaigns.

(b) Special Government employees of the Commission are subject to the political activity restrictions contained in 5 U.S.C. 73 and 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607 and 608 while on an active duty status only.

(c) Pursuant to provisions of the regulations cited, employees may take part in certain local elections. However, Commission employees are restricted from taking an active role in political elections of the Navajo and Hopi tribal governments, even though such elections are not partisan in the usual meaning of the word. With respect to tribal elections, employees may not:

(1) Run for tribal elective office.

(2) Organize, direct, nor actively participate in a tribal electoral campaign.

(3) Solicit or attempt to coerce fellow employees to contribute anything of value to an individual or group engaged in tribal political activity.

(4) Circulate petitions, posters, or other political materials during working hours or on Commission premises.

(5) Engage in any other type of tribal political activity which produces a conflict of interest between the employee's job responsibilities and the political activity.
