
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart O - Employee Responsibility and Conduct
##### ยง 700.561 Sexual harassment.

(a) Sexual harassment is a form of employee misconduct which undermines the integrity of the employment relationship. All employees must be allowed to work in an environment free from unsolicited and unwelcome sexual overtures. Sexual harassment is defined by the Office of Personnel Management as "deliberate or repeated unsolicited verbal comments, gestures, or physical contact of a sexual nature which are unwelcome." Sexual harassment does not refer to occasional compliments. It refers to behavior which is not welcome, which is personally offensive and debilitates morale, interfering with the work effectiveness of its victims and their co-workers.

(b) Sexual harassment is a prohibited personnel practice when it results in discrimination for or against an employee on the basis of conduct not related to performance.

(c) Within the Federal Government, a supervisor who uses implicit or explicit coercive sexual behavior to control, influence, or affect the career, salary or job of an employee is engaging in sexual harassment. Similarly, an employee of an agency who behaves in this manner in the process of conducting agency business is engaging in sexual harassment. Finally, any employee who participates in deliberate or repeated unsolicited verbal comments, gestures, or physical contact of a sexual nature which are unwelcome and interfere with work productivity is also engaging in sexual harassment.

(d) It is the policy of the Relocation Commission that sexual harassment is unacceptable conduct in the workplace and will not be condoned. An employee who believes that he or she is subject to sexual harassment may contact one or more of the following people within the Commission for assistance:

(1) The immediate supervisor or second level supervisor.

(2) The EEO Counselor.

(3) The agency EEO Officer.

(4) The EEO Counselor at the Agency Liaison Division of the General Services Administration.
