
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart O - Employee Responsibility and Conduct
##### ยง 700.563 Statutory restrictions from 18 U.S.C. 207, which are applicable to former Government employees.
###### Restrictions applicable only to "senior employees."

(b)(1) Members of the Senior Executive Service are considered senior employees.

(2) Two-year ban on assisting in representation by personal presence. A former senior employee may not assist in the representation of another person by personal presence at an appearance before the Government on any particular matter in which the former employee personally and substantially participated while with the Government.

(3) One-year on attempt to influence former agency. A former senior employee may not represent another person or himself in attempting to influence his own former agency on a matter pending before, or of substantial interest to, such agency. Certain communications are exempted from this provision. These include communications by former senior employees who are employed by State or local governments or by certain educational or medical institutions, other exempt communications are those that are purely social or informational, communications on matters that are personal, including any expression of personal views where the former employee has no pecuniary interest, and response to a former agency's requests for information.
