
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart Q - New Lands Grazing
##### ยง 700.709 Grazing privileges.

(a) A list of permittees eligible to receive grazing permits is kept at the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation in Flagstaff, Arizona. This list is composed of individuals eligible for New Lands grazing permits who:

(1) Have a current HPL grazing permit, or have had an HPL permit issued since 1980, or are current HPL residents and can show documentation of a past grazing permit issued in their name for grazing on an area now on the HPL, and

(2) Who have not received relocation benefits under Pub. L. 93-531, and who relocate from the HPL on to a New Lands range unit. Individuals on this list will receive a commitment that a permit will be issued to them.

(b) If such persons cannot relocate immediately because their chosen relocation site is not ready for occupancy, the Office will issue a commitment to them that a grazing permit will be granted upon their relocation.

(c) If such persons are notified by the Office that their relocation site is ready for occupancy and they fail or refuse to make timely arrangements to relocate when requested by the Office to do so, the commitment may be withdrawn.

(d) Persons on this list must file an application for a New Lands Grazing Permit. The Commissioner will determine when the application period will close and will publish notice of that date. After the close of the period for application, the Commissioner, in his sole discretion, may issue permits to individuals if it is determined that to do so will facilitate relocation.

(e) Initial determinations on eligibility for grazing permits will be made by the Range Supervisor.
