
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart Q - New Lands Grazing
##### ยง 700.715 Assignment, modification, and cancellation of grazing permits.

(a) Grazing permits may be assigned or transferred with the written consent of the contracting parties. The Commissioner will issue a new permit provided the transferee meets qualifications under ยง 700.711(b).

(b) Temporary permits issued under ยง 700.711(d) are directly tied to the term permit and may be transferred with the term permit if the transferee signs the range unit management plan which provides the management for continuation of the temporary grazing permit. Temporary permits will not be transferred and shall be null and void if the term permit transferee does not sign the management plan agreeing to practice conservation management.

(c) Grazing permits may be assigned for transfer through a notarized document to an heir who meets the qualifications for a grazing permit under ยง 700.711.

(d) Grazing permits must be transferred in whole to a single transferee-the transferor relinquishing all grazing privileges at the time of transfer.

(e) The Commissioner may revoke or withdraw all or any part of a grazing permit by cancellation or modification on a 30 day written notice for violation of the permit or of the management plan, non-payment of grazing fees, violation of these regulations, or because of the termination of the trust status of the permitted land.
