
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart Q - New Lands Grazing
##### ยง 700.722 Grazing associations.

(a) The Commissioner may recognize, cooperate with, and assist range unit livestock associations in the management of livestock and range resources.

(b) These associations will provide the means for the members:

(1) To jointly manage their permitted livestock and the range resources,

(2) To meet jointly with the ONHIR range staff to discuss and formulate range management plans,

(3) To express their wishes through designated officers or committees,

(4) To share costs for handling livestock, construction of range improvements, fence and livestock facilities maintenance, and other land or livestock improvement projects agreed on, and

(5) To formulate association special rules needed to assure cooperation and resource management.

(c) The requirements for receiving recognition by the Commissioner are:

(1) The members of the association must be grazing permittees and constitute a majority of the grazing permittees on the range unit involved.

(2) The officers of the association must be elected by a majority of the association members or of a quorum as specified by the association's constitution and bylaws.

(3) The officers other than secretary and treasurer must be grazing permittees on the range unit involved.

(4) The association's activities must be governed by a constitution and bylaws acceptable to the Commissioner and signed by him.

(5) The association's constitution and bylaws must recognize conservation management goals and the need to follow a range unit management plan.

(d) The Commissioner may withdraw his recognition of the association whenever:

(1) The majority of the grazing permittees request that the association be dissolved.

(2) The association becomes inactive and does not meet in annual or special meetings during a consecutive two-year period.

(e) A recognized association may hold a grazing permit to benefit its members according to the rules of the association constitution and bylaws. All of the association's livestock will be run under an association brand properly registered with the Navajo Tribe and the ONHIR.

(f) Associations may acquire permits from consenting permittees on the range unit in accordance with ยง 700.711 and may assign or transfer these permits in accordance with ยง 700.715.
