
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart Q - New Lands Grazing
##### ยง 700.727 Impoundment and disposal of unauthorized livestock.

Unauthorized livestock within any range unit of the New Lands which are not removed therefrom within the periods prescribed by the regulation will be impounded and disposed of by the Commissioner as provided herein.

(a) When the Commissioner determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring, and has definite knowledge of the kind of unauthorized livestock and knows the name and address of the owners, the owner shall be given written notice and a 10 day period shall be allowed for the permittee to solve the unauthorized use without penalty. If after this 10 day period the unauthorized use is not resolved, such livestock may be impounded at any time after five days after written Notice of Intent to Impound Unauthorized Livestock is mailed by certified mail or personally delivered to such owners or their agent.

(b) When the Commissioner determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring, but does not have complete knowledge of the number and class of livestock, or if the name and address of the owner thereof are unknown, such livestock may be impounded at anytime after 15 days after the date a General Notice of Intent to Impound Unauthorized Livestock is first published in a local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts.

(c) Unauthorized livestock on the New Lands which are owned by persons given notice under paragraph (a) of this section and any unauthorized livestock in areas for which notice has been posted and published under paragraph (b) of this section, will be impounded without further notice anytime within the 12-month period immediately following the effective date of the notice.

(d) Following the impoundment of unauthorized livestock, a notice of sale of impounded livestock or unauthorized livestock will be published in a local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts. The notice will describe the livestock and specify the date, time, and place of sale. The date set shall be at least five days after the publication and posting of such notice.

(e) The owners or their agent may redeem the livestock anytime before the time set for the sale by submitting proof of ownership and paying for all expenses incurred in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock and any trespass fees and/or damages caused by the animals.

(f) Livestock erroneously impounded shall be returned to the rightful owner, and all expenses accruing thereto shall be waived.

(g) If the livestock are not redeemed before the time fixed for their sale, they shall be sold at public sale to the highest bidder. When livestock are sold pursuant to this regulation, the Commissioner shall furnish the buyer a bill of sale or other written instrument evidencing the sale.

(h) The proceeds of any sale of impounded livestock shall be applied as follows:

(1) To the payment of all expenses incurred by the United States in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock.

(2) Trespass penalties assessed pursuant to ยง 700.725 shall be paid to a separate account to be administered by the Commissioner for use as a range improvement fund for the New Lands.

(3) Any remaining amount shall be paid over to the owner of said livestock upon his submitting proof of ownership.
