
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart R - Protection of Archaeological Resources
##### ยง 700.811 Application for permits and information collection.

(a) Any person may apply to the appropriate Federal Land Manager for a permit to excavate and/or remove archaeological resources from the New Lands and to carry out activities associated with such excavation and/or removal.

(b) Each application for a permit shall include:

(1) The nature and extent of the work proposed, including how and why it is proposed to be conducted, proposed time of performance, location maps, and proposed outlet for public written dissemination of the results.

(2) The name and address of the individual(s) proposed to be responsible for conducting the work, institutional affiliation, if any, and evidence of education, training and experience in accord with the minimal qualifications listed in ยง 700.815(a).

(3) The name and address of the individual(s), if different from the individual(s) named in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, proposed to be responsible for carrying out the terms and conditions of the permit.

(4) Evidence of the applicant's ability to initiate, conduct and complete the proposed work, including evidence of logistical support and laboratory facilities.

(5) Where the application is for the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources on the New Lands, the name of the university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution in which the applicant proposes to store copies of records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work, and all collections in the event the Indian owners do not wish to take custody or otherwise dispose of the archaeological resources. Applicants shall submit written certification, signed by an authorized official of the institution, of willingness to assume curatorial responsibility for the collections, if applicable, and/or the records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work.

(c) The Federal Land Manager may require additional information, pertinent to land management responsibilities, to be included in the application for permit and shall so inform the applicant.

(d) Paperwork Reduction Act. The purpose of the information collection under ยง 700.811 is to meet statutory and administrative requirements in the public interest. The information will be used to assist Federal land managers in determining that applicants for permits are qualified, that the work proposed would further archaeological knowledge, that archaeological resources and associated records and data will be properly preserved, and that the permitted activity would not conflict with the management of the New Lands involved. Response to the information requirement is necessary in order for an applicant to obtain a benefit.
