
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart R - Protection of Archaeological Resources
##### ยง 700.833 Civil penalty amounts.
###### Determination of penalty amount, mitigation, and remission.

(b)The Federal Land Manager may assess a penalty amount less than the maximum amount of penalty and may offer to mitigate or remit the penalty.

(1) Determination of penalty amount and/or a proposal to mitigate or remit the penalty may be based upon any of the following factors.

(i) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to return to the Federal Land Manager and ultimately to the Navajo Nation archaeological resources removed from the New Lands.

(ii) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to assist the Federal Land Manager in activity to preserve, restore, or otherwise contribute to the protection and study of archaeological resources on the New Lands.

(iii) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to provide information which will assist in the detection, prevention, or prosecution of violations of the Act or this part;

(iv) Demonstration of hardship or inability to pay, provided that this factor shall only be considered when the person being assessed a civil penalty has not been found to have previously violated the regulations in this part;

(v) Determination that the person being assessed a civil penalty did not willfully commit the violation.

(vi) Determination that the proposed penalty would constitute excessive punishment under the circumstances.

(vii) Determination of other mitigating circumstances appropriate to consideration in reaching a fair and expeditious assessment.

(2) The Federal Land Manager shall consult with and consider the interests of the Navajo Nation prior to proposing to mitigate or remit the penalty.
