
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter IV - The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
### PART 700 - COMMISSION OPERATIONS AND RELOCATION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart R - Protection of Archaeological Resources
##### ยง 700.843 Permitting procedures for Navajo Nation Lands.

(a) Pursuant to the Act and this subpart, the written consent of the Navajo Nation is required. Written consent shall consist of a Navajo Nation permit issued in accordance with the Navajo Nation Code or a resolution of the Navajo Nation Council or delegated committee of that Council.

(b) When Indian tribal lands are involved in an application for a permit or a request for extension or modification of a permit, the consent of the Indian tribal government must be obtained. For Indian allotted lands outside reservation boundaries, consent from only the individual landowner is needed. When multiple-owner allotted lands are involved, consent by more than 50 percent of the ownership interest is sufficient. For Indian allotted lands within reservation boundaries, consent must be obtained from the Navajo Nation and the individual landowner(s).

(c) The applicant should consult with the Office concerning procedures for obtaining consent from the appropriate Indian tribal authorities and submit the permit application to the Office. The Office shall ensure that consultation with the Navajo Nation or individual Indian landowner regarding terms and conditions of the permit occurs prior to detailed evaluation of the application. Permits shall include terms and conditions requested by the Navajo Nation or Indian landowner pursuant to ยง 700.817 of this part.

(d) The issuance of a permit under this part does not remove the requirement for any other permit by Indian tribal law.
