
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 900.3 Policy statements.
###### Congressional policy.

(a)(1) Congress has recognized the obligation of the United States to respond to the strong expression of the Indian people for self-determination by assuring maximum Indian participation in the direction, planning, conduct and administration of educational as well as other Federal programs and services to Indian communities so as to render such programs and services more responsive to the needs and desires of those communities.

(2) Congress has declared its commitment to the maintenance of the Federal Government's unique and continuing relationship with, and responsibility to, individual Indian tribes and to the Indian people as a whole through the establishment of a meaningful Indian self-determination policy which will permit an orderly transition from the Federal domination of programs for, and services to, Indians to effective and meaningful participation by the Indian people in the planning, conduct, and administration of those programs and services. In accordance with this policy, the United States is committed to supporting and assisting Indian tribes in the development of strong and stable tribal governments, capable of administering quality programs and developing the economies of their respective communities.

(3) Congress has declared that a major national goal of the United States is to provide the quantity and quality of educational services and opportunities which will permit Indian children to compete and excel in the life areas of their choice, and to achieve the measure of self-determination essential to their social and economic well-being.

(4) Congress has declared that the programs, functions, services, or activities that are contracted and funded under this Act shall include administrative functions of the Department of the Interior and the Department of Health and Human Services (whichever is applicable) that support the delivery of services to Indians, including those administrative activities supportive of, but not included as part of, the service delivery programs described in this paragraph that are otherwise contractible. The administrative functions referred to in the preceding sentence shall be contractible without regard to the organizational level within the Department that carries out such functions. Contracting of the administrative functions described herein shall not be construed to limit or reduce in any way the funding for any program, function, service, or activity serving any other tribe under the Act or any other law. The Secretary is not required to reduce funding for programs, projects, or activities serving a tribe to make funds available to another Indian tribe or tribal organization under this Act.

(5) Congress has further declared that each provision of the Act and each provision of contracts entered into thereunder shall be liberally construed for the benefit of the tribes or tribal organizations to transfer the funding and the related functions, services, activities, and programs (or portions thereof), that are otherwise contractible under the Act, including all related administrative functions, from the Federal government to the contractor.

(6) Congress has declared that one of the primary goals of the 1994 amendments to the Act was to minimize the reporting requirements applicable to tribal contractors and to eliminate excessive and burdensome reporting requirements. Reporting requirements over and above the annual audit report are to be negotiated with disagreements subject to the declination procedures of section 102 of the Act.

(7) Congress has declared that there not be any threshold issues which would avoid the declination, contract review, approval, and appeal process.

(8) Congress has declared that all self-determination contract proposals must be supported by the resolution of an Indian tribe(s).

(9) Congress has declared that to the extent that programs, functions, services, and activities carried out by tribes and tribal organizations pursuant to contracts entered into under this Act reduce the administrative or other responsibilities of the Secretary with respect to the operation of Indian programs and result in savings that have not otherwise been included in the amount of contract funds determined under section 106(a) of the Act, the Secretary shall make such savings available for the provision of additional services to program beneficiaries, either directly or through contractors, in a manner equitable to both direct and contracted programs.
