
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 900.3 Policy statements.
###### Secretarial policy.

(b)(1) It is the policy of the Secretary to facilitate the efforts of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to plan, conduct and administer programs, functions, services and activities, or portions thereof, which the Departments are authorized to administer for the benefit of Indians because of their status as Indians. The Secretary shall make best efforts to remove any obstacles which might hinder Indian tribes and tribal organizations including obstacles that hinder tribal autonomy and flexibility in the administration of such programs.

(2) It is the policy of the Secretary to encourage Indian tribes and tribal organizations to become increasingly knowledgeable about the Departments' programs administered for the benefit of Indians by providing information on such programs, functions and activities and the opportunities Indian tribes have regarding them.

(3) It is the policy of the Secretary to provide a uniform and consistent set of rules for contracts under the Act. The rules contained herein are designed to facilitate and encourage Indian tribes to participate in the planning, conduct, and administration of those Federal programs serving Indian people. The Secretary shall afford Indian tribes and tribal organizations the flexibility, information, and discretion necessary to design contractible programs to meet the needs of their communities consistent with their diverse demographic, geographic, economic, cultural, health, social, religious and institutional needs.

(4) The Secretary recognizes that contracting under the Act is an exercise by Indian tribes of the government-to-government relationship between the United States and the Indian tribes. When an Indian tribe contracts, there is a transfer of the responsibility with the associated funding. The tribal contractor is accountable for managing the day-to-day operations of the contracted Federal programs, functions, services, and activities. The contracting tribe thereby accepts the responsibility and accountability to the beneficiaries under the contract with respect to use of the funds and the satisfactory performance of the programs, functions, services and activities funded under the contract. The Secretary will continue to discharge the trust responsibilities to protect and conserve the trust resources of Indian tribes and the trust resources of individual Indians.

(5) The Secretary recognizes that tribal decisions to contract or not to contract are equal expressions of self-determination.

(6) The Secretary shall maintain consultation with tribal governments and tribal organizations in the Secretary's budget process relating to programs, functions, services and activities subject to the Act. In addition, on an annual basis, the Secretary shall consult with, and solicit the participation of, Indian tribes and tribal organizations in the development of the budget for the Indian Health Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (including participation of Indian tribes and tribal organizations in formulating annual budget requests that the Secretary submits to the President for submission to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code).

(7) The Secretary is committed to implementing and fully supporting the policy of Indian self-determination by recognizing and supporting the many positive and successful efforts and directions of tribal governments and extending the applicability of this policy to all operational components within the Department. By fully extending Indian self-determination contracting to all operational components within the Department having programs or portions of programs for the benefit of Indians under section 102(a)(1) (A) through (D) and for the benefit of Indians because of their status as Indians under section 102(a)(1)(E), it is the Secretary's intent to support and assist Indian tribes in the development of strong and stable tribal governments capable of administering quality programs that meet the tribally determined needs and directions of their respective communities. It is also the policy of the Secretary to have all other operational components within the Department work cooperatively with tribal governments on a government-to-government basis so as to expedite the transition away from Federal domination of Indian programs and make the ideals of Indian self-government and self-determination a reality.

(8) It is the policy of the Secretary that the contractibility of programs under this Act should be encouraged. In this regard, Federal laws and regulations should be interpreted in a manner that will facilitate the inclusion of those programs or portions of those programs that are for the benefit of Indians under section 102(a)(1) (A) through (D) of the Act, and that are for the benefit of Indians because of their status of Indians under section 102(a)(1)(E) of the Act.

(9) It is the Secretary's policy that no later than upon receipt of a contract proposal under the Act (or written notice of an Indian tribe or tribal organization's intention to contract), the Secretary shall commence planning such administrative actions, including but not limited to transfers or reductions in force, transfers of property, and transfers of contractible functions, as may be necessary to ensure a timely transfer of responsibilities and funding to Indian tribes and tribal organizations.

(10) It is the policy of the Secretary to make available to Indian tribes and tribal organizations all administrative functions that may lawfully be contracted under the Act, employing methodologies consistent with the methodology employed with respect to such functions under titles III and IV of the Act.

(11) The Secretary's commitment to Indian self-determination requires that these regulations be liberally construed for the benefit of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to effectuate the strong Federal policy of self-determination and, further, that any ambiguities herein be construed in favor of the Indian tribe or tribal organization so as to facilitate and enable the transfer of services, programs, functions, and activities, or portions thereof, authorized by the Act.
