
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart F - Standards for Tribal or Tribal Organization Management Systems
##### Procurement Management System Standards
###### ยง 900.48 If the Indian tribe or tribal organization does not propose different standards, what basic standards shall the Indian tribe or tribal organization follow?

(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall ensure that its vendors and/or subcontractors perform in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications of their contracts or purchase orders.

(b) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees who award and administer contracts.

(1) No employee, officer, elected official, or agent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a procurement supported by Federal funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved.

(2) An employee, officer, elected official, or agent of an Indian tribe or tribal organization, or of a subcontractor of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, is not allowed to solicit or accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, or parties to sub-agreements, with the following exemptions. The Indian tribe or tribal organization may exempt a financial interest that is not substantial or a gift that is an unsolicited item of nominal value.

(3) These standards shall also provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for violations of the standards.

(c) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall review proposed procurements to avoid buying unnecessary or duplicative items and ensure the reasonableness of the price. The Indian tribe or tribal organization should consider consolidating or breaking out procurement to obtain more economical purchases. Where appropriate, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall compare leasing and purchasing alternatives to determine which is more economical.

(d) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall conduct all major procurement transactions by providing full and open competition, to the extent necessary to assure efficient expenditure of contract funds and to the extent feasible in the local area.

(1) Indian tribes or tribal organizations shall develop their own definition for "major procurement transactions."

(2) As provided in sections 7 (b) and (c) of the Act, Indian preference and tribal preferences shall be applied in any procurement award.

(e) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall make procurement awards only to responsible entities who have the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed procurement. In making this judgment, the Indian tribe or tribal organization will consider such matters as the contractor's integrity, its compliance with public policy, its record of past performance, and its financial and technical resources.

(f) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall maintain records on the significant history of all major procurement transactions. These records may include, but are not limited to, the rationale for the method of procurement, the selection of contract type, the contract selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.

(g) The Indian tribe or tribal organization is solely responsible, using good administrative practice and sound business judgment, for processing and settling all contractual and administrative issues arising out of a procurement. These issues include, but are not limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims.

(1) The settlement of any protest, dispute, or claim shall not relieve the Indian tribe or tribal organization of any obligations under a self-determination contract.

(2) Violations of law shall be referred to the tribal or Federal authority having proper jurisdiction.
