
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart I - Property Donation Procedures
##### Excess or Surplus Government Property of Other Agencies
###### ยง 900.105 Who takes title to excess or surplus Federal property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?

(a) Title to any donated excess or surplus Federal personal property shall vest in the Indian tribe or tribal organization upon taking possession.

(b) Legal title to donated excess or surplus Federal real property shall vest in the Indian tribe or tribal organization upon acceptance by the Indian tribe or tribal organization of a proper deed of conveyance.

(c) If the donation of excess or surplus Federal real property includes land owned by the United States but not held in trust for an Indian tribe, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall specify whether it wants to acquire fee title to the land or whether it wants the land to be held in trust for the benefit of an Indian tribe.

(1) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests fee title, the Secretary shall take the necessary action under Federal law and regulations to transfer fee title to the Indian tribe or tribal organization.

(2) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests beneficial ownership with fee title to be held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe:

(i) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit with its request a resolution of support from the governing body of the Indian tribe in which the beneficial ownership is to be registered.

(ii) If the donation request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization is submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that Secretary shall take all necessary steps to acquire the land and transfer it to the Secretary of the Interior and shall also forward the Indian tribe or tribal organization's request and the Indian tribe's resolution.

(iii) The Secretary of the Interior shall expeditiously process all requests in accord with applicable Federal law and regulations.

(iv) The Secretary shall not require submission of any information other than that required by Federal law and regulation.
