
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart J - Construction
##### ยง 900.122 What does an Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants to secure a construction contract?

(a) The Act establishes a special process for review and negotiation of proposals for construction contracts which is different than that for other self-determination contract proposals. The Indian tribe or tribal organization should notify the Secretary of its intent to contract. After notification, the Indian tribe or tribal organization should prepare its contract proposal in accordance with the sections of this subpart. While developing its construction contract proposal, the Indian tribe or tribal organization can request technical assistance from the Secretary. Not later than 30 days after receiving a request from an Indian tribe or tribal organization, the Secretary shall provide to the Indian tribe or tribal organization all information available about the construction project, including construction drawings, maps, engineering reports, design reports, plans of requirements, cost estimates, environmental assessments, or environmental impact reports, and archaeological reports. The responsibility of the Secretary to furnish this information shall be a continuing one.

(b) At the request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization and before finalizing its construction contract proposal, the Secretary shall provide for a precontract negotiation phase during the development of a contract proposal. Within 30 days the Secretary shall acknowledge receipt of the proposal and, if requested by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, shall confer with the Indian tribe or tribal organization to develop a negotiation schedule. The negotiation phase shall include, at a minimum:

(1) The provision of technical assistance under section 103 of the Act and paragraph (a) of this section;

(2) A joint scoping session between the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization to review all plans, specifications, engineering reports, cost estimates, and other information available to the parties, for the purpose of identifying all areas of agreement and disagreement;

(3) An opportunity for the Secretary to revise plans, designs, or cost estimates of the Secretary in response to concerns raised, or information provided by, the Indian tribe or tribal organization;

(4) A negotiation session during which the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall seek to develop a mutually agreeable contract proposal; and

(5) Upon the request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, the use of alternative dispute resolution to resolve remaining areas of disagreement under the dispute resolution provisions under subchapter IV of chapter 5 of the United States Code.
