
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart J - Construction
##### § 900.132 Once a contract and/or grant is awarded, how will the Indian tribe or tribal organization receive payments?

(a) A schedule for advance payments shall be developed based on progress, need, and other considerations in accordance with applicable law. The payment schedule shall be negotiated by the parties and included in the contract. The payment schedule may be adjusted as negotiated by the parties during the course of the project based on progress and need.

(b) Payments shall be made to the Indian tribe or tribal organization according to the payment schedule contained in the contract. If the contract does not provide for the length of each allocation period, the Secretary shall make payments to the Indian tribe or tribal organization at least quarterly. Each allocation shall be adequate to provide funds for the contract activities anticipated to be conducted during the allocation period, except that:

(1) The first allocation may be greater than subsequent allocations and include mobilization costs, and contingency funds described in § 900.128(e)(8); and

(2) Any allocation may include funds for payment for materials that will be used during subsequent allocation periods.

(c) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may propose a schedule of payment amounts measured by time or measured by phase of the project (e.g., planning, design, construction).

(d) The amount of each payment allocation shall be stated in the Indian tribe or tribal organization's contract proposal. Upon award of the contract, the Secretary shall transfer the amount of the first allocation to the Indian tribe or tribal organization within 21 days after the date of contract award. The second allocation shall be made not later than 7 days before the end of the first allocation period.

(e) Not later than 7 days before the end of each subsequent allocation period after the second allocation, the Secretary shall transfer to the Indian tribe or tribal organization the amount for the next allocation period, unless the Indian tribe or tribal organization is delinquent in submission of allocation period progress reports and financial reports or the Secretary takes action to suspend or terminate the contract in accordance with § 900.131(b)(11), § 900.131(b)(12), or § 900.131(b)(13).
