
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart L - Appeals
##### Appeals Other Than Emergency Reassumption and Suspension, Withholding or Delay in Payment
###### ยง 900.158 How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization appeal the initial decision, if it does not request an informal conference or if it does not agree with the recommended decision resulting from the informal conference?

(a) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization decides to appeal, it shall file a notice of appeal with the IBIA within 30 days of receiving either the initial decision or the recommended decision.

(b) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may either hand-deliver the notice of appeal to the IBIA, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization mails the Notice of Appeal, it will be considered filed on the date the Indian tribe or tribal organization mailed it by certified mail. The Indian tribe or tribal organization should mail the notice of appeal to: Board of Indian Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203.

(c) The Notice of Appeal shall:

(1) Briefly state why the Indian tribe or tribal organization thinks the initial decision is wrong;

(2) Briefly identify the issues involved in the appeal; and

(3) State whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization wants a hearing on the record, or whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization wants to waive its right to a hearing.

(d) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall serve a copy of the notice of appeal upon the official whose decision it is appealing. The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall certify to the IBIA that it has done so.

(e) The authorized representative of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the authorized representative of the Secretary of the Interior will be considered a party to all appeals filed with the IBIA under the Act.
