
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter V - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services
### PART 900 - CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT
#### Subpart L - Appeals
##### Appeals Other Than Emergency Reassumption and Suspension, Withholding or Delay in Payment
###### § 900.160 What happens after an Indian tribe or tribal organization files an appeal?

(a) Within 5 days of receiving the Indian tribe or tribal organization's notice of appeal, the IBIA will decide whether the appeal falls under § 900.150(a) through § 900.150(g). If so, the Indian tribe or tribal organization is entitled to a hearing.

(1) If the IBIA determines that the appeal of the Indian tribe or tribal organization falls under § 900.150(h), § 900.150(i), or § 900.150(j), and the Indian tribe or tribal organization has requested a hearing, the IBIA will grant the request for a hearing unless the IBIA determines that there are no genuine issues of material fact to be resolved.

(2) If the IBIA cannot make that decision based on the information included in the notice of appeal, the IBIA may ask for additional statements from the Indian tribe or tribal organization, or from the appropriate Federal agency. If the IBIA asks for more statements, it will make its decision within 5 days of receiving those statements.

(b) If the IBIA decides that the Indian tribe or tribal organization is not entitled to a hearing or if the Indian tribe or tribal organization has waived its right to a hearing on the record, the IBIA will ask for the administrative record under 43 CFR 4.335. The IBIA shall tell the parties that the appeal will be considered under the regulations at 43 CFR 4, subpart D, except the case shall be docketed immediately, without waiting for the 20-day period described in 43 CFR 4.336.
