
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1000.3 Purpose and scope.
###### Information Collection.,i.e.

(b)The information provided by the Tribes will be used by the Department for a variety of purposes. The first purpose will be to ensure that qualified applicants are admitted into the applicant pool consistent with the requirements of the Act. In addition, Tribes seeking grant assistance to meet the planning requirements for admission into the applicant pool, will provide information so that grants can be awarded to Tribes meeting basic eligibility (Tribal resolution indicating that the Tribe wants to plan for Self-Governance and has no material audit exceptions for the last three years of audits). There is no confidential information being solicited and confidentiality is not extended under the law. Other documentation is required to meet the reporting requirements as called for in section 405 of the Act. The information being provided by the Tribes is required to obtain a benefit, however, no person is required to respond to an information collection request unless the form or regulation requesting the information has a currently valid OMB control (clearance) number. Comments were solicited from the Tribes and the general public with respect to this collection. No adverse comments were received. The information collection has been cleared by OMB. The number is OMB control #1076-0143. The approval expires on April 30, 2003.
