
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1000.4 Policy statement.
###### Secretarial self-governance policies.

(c)(1) It is the policy of the Secretary to fully support and implement the foregoing policies to the full extent of the Secretary's authority.

(2) It is the policy of the Secretary to recognize and respect the unique government-to-government relationship between Tribes, as sovereign governments, and the United States.

(3) It is the policy of the Secretary to have all bureaus of the Department work cooperatively and pro-actively with Tribes and Tribal Consortia on a government-to-government basis within the framework of the Act and any other applicable provision of law, so as to make the ideals of self-determination and self-governance a reality.

(4) It is the policy of the Secretary to have all bureaus of the Department actively share information with Tribes and Tribal Consortia to encourage Tribes and Tribal Consortia to become knowledgeable about the Department's programs and the opportunities to include them in an annual funding agreement.

(5) It is the policy of the Secretary that all bureaus of the Department will negotiate in good faith, interpret each applicable Federal law and regulation in a manner that will facilitate the inclusion of programs in each annual funding agreement authorized, and enter into such annual funding agreements under Title IV, whenever possible.

(6) It is the policy of the Secretary to afford Tribes and Tribal Consortia the maximum flexibility and discretion necessary to meet the needs of their communities consistent with their diverse demographic, geographic, economic, cultural, health, social, religious, and institutional needs. These policies are designed to facilitate and encourage Tribes and Tribal Consortia to participate in the planning, conduct, and administration of those Federal programs, included, or eligible for inclusion in an annual funding agreement.

(7) It is the policy of the Secretary, to the extent of the Secretary's authority, to maintain active communication with Tribal governments regarding budgetary matters applicable to programs subject to the Act, and that are included in an individual self-governance annual funding agreement.

(8) It is the policy of the Secretary to implement policies, procedures, and practices at the Department to ensure that the letter, spirit, and goals of the Tribal Self-Governance Act are fully and successfully implemented.

(9) Executive Order 13084 on Consultation and Coordination with Indian Tribal Governments and any subsequent Executive Orders regarding consultation will apply to the implementation of these regulations.
