
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Subpart E - Annual Funding Agreements for Bureau of Indian Affairs Programs
##### Determining AFA Amounts
###### ยง 1000.95 How is BIA's residual determined?

(a) Generally, residual information will be determined through a process that is consistent with the overall process used by the BIA. Residual information will consist of residual functions performed by the BIA, brief justification why the function is not compactible, and the estimated funding level for each residual function. Each regional office and the central office will compile a single document for distribution each year that contains all the residual information of that respective office. The development of the residual information will be based on the following principles. The BIA will:

(1) Develop uniform residual information to be used to negotiate residuals;

(2) Ensure functional consistency throughout BIA in the determination of residuals;

(3) Make the determination of residuals based upon the functions actually being performed by BIA at the respective office;

(4) Annually consult with Tribes on a region-by-region basis as requested by Tribes/Consortia; and

(5) Notify Tribal leaders each year by March 1 of the availability of residual information.

(b) BIA shall use the residual information determined under subparagraph (a) as the basis for negotiating with individual Tribes.

(c) In accordance with the appeals procedures in subpart R of this part, if BIA and a participating Tribe/Consortium disagree over the content of residual functions or amounts, Tribe/Consortium can appeal as shown in the following table.

(d) Information on residual functions may be amended if programs are added or deleted, if statutory or final judicial determinations mandate or if the Deputy Commissioner makes a determination that would alter the residual information or funding amounts. The decision may be appealed to the Assistant Secretary in accordance with subpart R of this part. The Assistant Secretary shall make a written determination within 30 days.
