
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Subpart E - Annual Funding Agreements for Bureau of Indian Affairs Programs
##### Establishing Self-Governance Base Budgets
###### ยง 1000.105 What are self-governance base budgets?

(a) A Tribe/Consortium self-governance base budget is the amount of recurring funding identified in the President's annual budget request to Congress. This amount must be adjusted to reflect subsequent Congressional action. It includes amounts that are eligible to be base transferred or have been base transferred from BIA budget accounts to self-governance budget accounts. As allowed by Congress, self-governance base budgets are derived from:

(1) A Tribe's/Consortium's Pub. L. 93-638 contract amounts;

(2) Negotiated agency, regional, and central office amounts;

(3) Other recurring funding;

(4) Special projects, if applicable;

(5) Programmatic shortfall;

(6) Tribal priority allocation increases and decreases;

(7) Pay costs and retirement cost adjustments; and

(8) Any other inflationary cost adjustments.

(b) Self-governance base budgets must not include any non-recurring program funds, construction and wildland firefighting accounts, Congressional earmarks, or other funds specifically excluded by Congress. These funds are negotiated annually and may be included in the AFA but must not be included in the self-governance base budget.

(c) Self-governance base budgets may not include other recurring type programs that are currently in Tribal priority allocations (TPA) such as general assistance, housing improvement program (HIP), road maintenance and contract support. Should these later four programs ever become base transferred to Tribes, then they may be included in a self-governance Tribe's base budget.
