
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Subpart G - Negotiation Process for Annual Funding Agreements
##### Negotiation of Initial Annual Funding Agreements
###### ยง 1000.172 What steps does the bureau take after a letter of interest is submitted by a Tribe/Consortium?

(a) Within 15 calendar days of receipt of a Tribe's/Consortium's letter of interest, the bureau will notify the Tribe/Consortium about who will be designated as the bureau's representative to be responsible for responding to the Tribal requests for information. The bureau representative shall act in good faith in fulfilling the following responsibilities:

(1) Providing all budget and program information identified in paragraph (b) of this section, from each organizational level of the bureau(s); and

(2) Notifying any other bureau requiring notification and participation under this part.

(b) Within 30 calendar days of receipt of the Tribe's/Consortium's letter of interest:

(1) To the extent that such reasonably related information is available, the bureau representative is to provide the information listed in paragraph (c) of this section, if available and consistent with the bureau's budgetary process;

(2) A written explanation of why the information is not available or not being provided to the Tribe's/Consortium's contact and the date by which other available information will be provided; or

(3) If applicable, a written explanation of why the program is unavailable for negotiation.

(c) Information to be made available to the Tribe's/Consortium's contact, subject to the conditions of paragraph (b) of this section, includes:

(1) Information regarding program, budget, staffing, and locations of the offices administering the program and related administrative support program identified by the Tribe/Consortium,

(2) Information contained in the previous year, present year, and next year's budget proposed by the President at the national program level and the regional/local level.

(3) When appropriate, the bureau will be available to meet the Tribal representatives to explain the budget information provided.

(4) Information used to support budget allocations for the programs identified (e.g., full time equivalents and other relevant factors).

(5) Information used to operate and/or evaluate a program, such as statutory and regulatory requirements and program standards.

(6) If applicable, information regarding how a program is administered by more than one bureau, including a point of contact for information for the other bureau(s); and

(7) Other information requested by the Tribe/Consortium in its letter of interest.

(d) If a bureau fails to provide reasonably related information requested by a Tribe/Consortium, the Tribe/Consortium may appeal the failure in accordance with subpart R of this part. These requests shall be considered for a fee waiver under the Freedom of Information Act.
