
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Subpart O - Trust Evaluation Review
##### Annual Trust Evaluations
###### ยง 1000.355 How are trust evaluations conducted?

(a) Each year the Secretary's designated representative(s) will conduct trust evaluations for each self-governance AFA. The Secretary's designated representative(s) will coordinate with the designated Tribe's/Consortium's representative(s) throughout the review process, including the written report required by ยง 1000.365.

(b) This section describes the general framework for trust reviews. However, each Tribe/Consortium may develop, with the appropriate bureau, an individualized trust evaluation process to allow for the Tribe's/Consortium's unique history and circumstances and the terms and conditions of its AFA. An individualized trust evaluation process must, at a minimum, contain the measures in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) To facilitate the review process so as to mitigate costs and maximize efficiency, each Tribe/Consortium must provide access to all records, plans, and other pertinent documents relevant to the program(s) under review not otherwise available to the Department.

(d) The Secretary's designated representative(s) will:

(1) Review trust transactions;

(2) Conduct on-site inspections of trust resources, as appropriate;

(3) Review compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements;

(4) Review compliance with the trust provisions of the AFA;

(5) Ensure that the same level of trust services is provided to individual Indians as would have been provided by the Secretary;

(6) Document deficiencies in the performance of trust functions discovered during the review process; and

(7) Ensure the fulfillment of the Secretary's trust responsibility to Tribes and individual Indians by documenting the existence of:

(i) Systems of internal controls;

(ii) Trust standards; and

(iii) Safeguards against conflicts of interest in the performance of trust functions.

(e) At the request of a Tribe/Consortium, at the time the AFA is negotiated, the standards will be negotiated, except where standards are otherwise provided for by law.
