
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 1000 - Model Compact of Self-Governance Between the Tribe and the Department of the Interior

This agreement, denoted a compact of Self-Governance (hereinafter referred to as the "compact"), is entered into by the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the "Secretary"), for and on behalf of the United States of America under the authority granted by Title IV of the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act, Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, and by the Tribe, under the authority of the Constitution and By-Laws of the Tribe (hereinafter referred to as the "Tribe").

This compact shall be liberally construed to achieve its purposes:

(a) This compact is to carry out Self-Governance as authorized by Title IV of Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, that built upon the Self Governance Demonstration Project, and transfer control to Tribal governments, upon Tribal request and through negotiation with the United States government, over funding and decision-making of certain Federal programs as an effective way to implement the Federal policy of government-to-government relations with Indian Tribes.

(b) This compact is to enable the United States to maintain and improve its unique and continuing relationship with and responsibility to the Tribe through Tribal self-governance, so that the Tribe may take its rightful place in the family of governments; remove Federal obstacles to effective self-governance; reorganize Tribal government programs and services; achieve efficiencies in service delivery; and provide a documented example for the development of future Federal Indian policy. This policy of Tribal self-governance shall permit an orderly transition from Federal domination of Indian programs and services to allow Indian Tribes meaningful authority to plan, conduct, and administer those programs and services to meet the needs of their people. In implementing Self-Governance, the Bureau of Indian Affairs is expected to provide the same level of service to other Tribal governments and to demonstrate new policies and methods to improve service delivery and address Tribal needs. In fulfilling its responsibilities under the compact, the Secretary hereby pledges that the Department will conduct all relations with the Tribe on a government-to-government basis.

This compact shall be effective when signed by the Secretary or an authorized representative and the authorized representative of the Tribe. The term of this compact shall commence [negotiated effective date] and must remain in effect as provided by Federal law or agreement of the parties.

In accordance with Section 403(g) of Title IV of Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall provide to the Tribe the total amount specified in each annual funding agreement.

To implement Section 405 of Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, on each January 1 throughout the period of the compact, the Secretary shall make a written report to the Congress that shall include the views of the Tribe concerning the matters encompassed by Section 405(b) and (d).

The Tribe shall abide by all Federal regulations as published in theunless waived in accordance with Section 403(i)(2) of Pub. L. 93-638, as amended.
