
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1000 - ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 1000 - Model Compact of Self-Governance Between the Tribe and the Department of the Interior
##### et seq.,

The Tribe shall provide administrative due process right under the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968, 25 U.S.C. 1301,to protect all rights and interests that Indians, or groups of Indians, may have with respect to services, activities, programs, and functions that are provided under the compact.

The Tribe will perform the programs as provided in the specific AFA negotiated under the Act. The Tribe pledges to practice utmost good faith in upholding its responsibility to provide such programs, under the Act.

To the extent that the AFAs have provisions for trust services to individual Indians that were formerly provided by the Secretary, the Tribe will maintain at least the same level of service as was previously provided by the Secretary. The Tribe pledges to practice utmost good faith in upholding their responsibility to provide such service.

The United States reaffirms the trust responsibility of the United States to the ______ Tribe(s) to protect and conserve the trust resources of the Tribe(s) and the trust resources of individual Indians associated with this compact and any annual funding agreement negotiated under the Tribal Self-Governance Act.

Under Section 403(d) of Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, annual funding agreements negotiated between the Secretary and an Indian Tribe shall include provisions to monitor the performance of trust functions by the Tribe through the annual trust evaluation.

Nothing in this compact may be construed to terminate, waive, modify, or reduce the trust responsibility of the United States to the Tribe(s) or individual Indians. The Secretary shall act in good faith in upholding such trust responsibility.

No Member of Congress, or resident commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of any annual funding agreement or contract thereunder executed under this compact, or to any benefit that may arise from such compact. This paragraph may not be construed to apply to any contract with a third party entered into under an annual funding agreement under this compact if such contract is made with a corporation for the general benefit of the corporation.

The parties warrant that no person or selling agency has been employed or retained to solicit or secure any contract executed under this compact upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee, excepting bona fide employees or bona fide established commercial or selling agencies maintained by the contractor for the purpose of securing business.

Nothing in this compact or any AFA shall be construed as-

(1) affecting, modifying, diminishing, or otherwise impairing the sovereign immunity from suit enjoyed by the Tribe; or

(2) authorizing or requiring the termination of any existing trust responsibility of the United States with respect to the Indian people.

In witness whereof, the parties have executed, delivered and formed this compact, effective the ____ day of ______, 20__.
