
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1001 - SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
#### ยง 1001.7 Availability, amount, and number of planning and negotiation grants.

(a) What is the purpose of this section? This section describes how to apply for planning and negotiation grants authorized by section 402(d) of the Act to help meet tribal costs incurred:

(1) In meeting the planning phase requirement of Pub. L. 103-413, including planning to negotiate non-BIA programs, services, functions and activities; and

(2) In conducting negotiations.

(b) What types of grants are available? Three categories of grants may be available:

(1) Negotiation grants for tribes/consortia selected from the applicant pool as described in ยง 1001.5 of these regulations;

(2) Planning grants for tribes/consortia requiring advance funding to meet the planning phase requirement of Pub. L. 103-413; and

(3) Financial assistance for tribes/consortia to plan for negotiating for non-BIA programs, services, functions and activities, as described in ยง 1001.10.

(c) Will grants always be made available to meet the planning phase requirement as described in section 402(d) of Pub. L. 103-413? No. Grants to cover some or all of the planning costs that a tribe/consortium may incur may be made available depending upon the availability of funds appropriated by Congress. We will publish notice of availability of grants in theas described in this section.

(d) May a tribe use its own resources to meet its planning and negotiation expenses in preparation for entering into self-governance? Yes. A tribe/consortium may use its own resources to meet these costs. Receiving a grant is not necessary to meet the planning phase requirement of the Act or to negotiate a compact and annual funding agreement.

(e) What happens if there are insufficient funds to meet the anticipated tribal requests for planning and negotiation grants in any given year? If appropriated funds are available but insufficient to meet the total requests from tribes/consortia, we will give first priority to those that have been selected from the applicant pool to negotiate an annual funding agreement. We will give second priority to tribes/consortia that require advance funds to meet the planning requirement for entry into the self-governance program. We will give third priority to tribes/consortia that require negotiation/planning funds to negotiate for DOI non-BIA programs.

(f) How many grants will the Department make each year and what funding will be available? The number and size of grants awarded each year will depend on Congressional appropriations and tribal interest. Each year, we will publish a notice in thewhich provides relevant details about the application process, including: The funds available, timeframes, and requirements for negotiation and advance planning specified in this part.
