
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1001 - SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
#### § 1001.9 Selection criteria for tribes/consortia seeking advance planning grant funding.

(a) Who is eligible to apply for a planning grant that will be awarded before a tribe/consortium is admitted into the applicant pool? Any tribe/consortium that is not a self-governance tribe and needs advance funding in order to complete the planning phase requirement may apply. Tribes/consortia that have received a planning grant within 3 years preceding the date of the latestannouncement described in § 1001.7 are not eligible.

(b) What must a tribe/consortium seeking a planning grant submit in order to meet the planning phase requirements? A tribe/consortium must submit the following material:

(1) A tribal resolution or other final action of the tribal governing body indicating a desire to plan for tribal self-governance;

(2) Audits from the last 3 years which document that the tribe meets the requirement of being free from any material audit exception;

(3) A proposal that describes the tribe's/consortium's plans to conduct:

(i) Legal and budgetary research, and

(ii) Internal tribal government and organization planning;

(4) A timeline indicating when planning will start and end; and

(5) Evidence that the tribe/consortium can perform the tasks associated with its proposal (i.e., submit resumes and position descriptions of key staff or consultants to be used).

(c) How will tribes/consortia know when and how to apply for planning grants? Each year, we will publish in thea notice of the availability of planning grants for additional tribes as described in § 1001.7. This notice will identify the specific details for applying.

(d) What criteria will be used to award planning grants to those tribes/consortia requiring advance funding to meet the planning phase requirement of Public Law 103-413? Advance planning grants are discretionary and based on need. The following criteria will be used to determine whether to award a planning grant to a tribe/consortium before the tribe is being selected into the applicant pool:

(1) A complete application as described in §§ 1001.9(b) and 1001.9(c);

(2) A demonstration of financial need. We will rank applications according to the percentage of tribal resources to total resources as indicated in the latest A-128 audit. We will give priority to applications that demonstrate financial need by having a lower level of tribal resources as a percent of total resources; and

(3) Other factors that demonstrate the readiness of the tribe/consortium to enter into a self-governance agreement, including previous efforts of the tribe/consortium to participate in self-governance.

(e) Can tribes/consortia that receive advance planning grants also apply for a negotiation grant? Yes. Tribes/consortia that receive advance planning grants may submit a completed application to be included in the applicant pool. Once approved for inclusion in the applicant pool, the tribe/consortium may apply for a negotiation grant according to the process identified in § 1001.7 above.

(f) When and how will a tribe/consortium know whether it has been selected to receive an advance planning grant? Within 30 days of the deadline for submitting applications we will notify the tribe/consortium by letter whether it has been selected to receive an advance planning grant.
