
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VI - Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### PART 1001 - SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
#### ยง 1001.10 Selection criteria for other planning and negotiating financial assistance.

(a) What is the purpose of this section? This section describes how to apply for other financial assistance for planning and negotiating of a DOI non-BIA program, service, function or activity that may be available, as well as the selection process.

(b) Are there other funds that may be available to self-governance tribes/consortia for planning and negotiating with DOI non-BIA bureaus? Yes. Tribes/consortia may contact the Director, Office of Self-Governance to determine if funds are available for the purpose of planning and negotiating with DOI non-BIA bureaus under this section. A tribe/consortium may also request information from a DOI non-BIA bureau on any funds which may be available from that bureau.

(c) Who is eligible to apply for financial assistance to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program? Any existing self-governance tribe/consortium is eligible.

(d) Under what circumstances may planning and negotiation financial assistance be made available to tribes/consortia? At the discretion of the Director, grants may be awarded when requested by the tribe and coordinated with the DOI non-BIA agency involved.

(e) How does the tribe/consortium apply for a grant to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program? When such funds are available, we will publish a notice of their availability and a deadline for submitting applications for such grants in theas indicated in ยง 1001.7.

(f) What must be included in the application? The application must include the following:

(1) The tribal resolution or other final action of the tribal governing body indicating that the tribe/consortium intends to negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program;

(2) A copy of the proposal or summary that was submitted to the DOI non-BIA bureau;

(3) A time line indicating when planning will begin and end;

(4) The planning resources from all other sources that are approved and/or anticipated for the planning activity; and

(5) The amount requested and a justification of why it is needed by the tribe/consortium.

(g) What criteria will we use to award grants to those tribes/consortia requesting financial assistance to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program? The award of such grants is discretionary. After consulting with the requesting tribe/consortium and the appropriate DOI non-BIA bureau, the Director will determine whether to award a grant to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program. The determination will be based upon the complexity of the project, the availability of resources from all other sources, and the relative need of the tribe/consortium to receive such funds for the successful completion of the planning and negotiating activity, as determined by the percentage of tribal resources to total resources as indicated in the latest A-128 audit. All decisions to award or not to award grants as described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section are final for the Department.
