
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart C - Criminal Procedure
###### ยง 11.311 Subpoenas.

(a) Upon request of any party, the court shall issue subpoenas to compel the testimony of witnesses, or the production of books, records, documents or any other physical evidence relevant to the determination of the case and not an undue burden on the person possessing the evidence. The clerk of the court may act on behalf of the court and issue subpoenas which have been signed either by the clerk of the court or by a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses and which are to be served within Indian country over which the Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction.

(b) A subpoena shall bear the signature of the chief magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses, and it shall state the name of the court, the name of the person or description of the physical evidence to be subpoenaed, the title of the proceeding, and the time and place where the witness is to appear or the evidence is to be produced.

(c) A subpoena may be served at any place but any subpoena to be served outside of the Indian country over which the Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction shall be issued personally by a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses.

(d) A subpoena may be served by any law enforcement officer or other person appointed by the court for such purpose. Service of a subpoena shall be made by delivering a copy of it to the person named or by leaving a copy at his or her place of residence or business with any person 18 years of age or older who also resides or works there.

(e) Proof of service of the subpoena shall be filed with the clerk of the court by noting on the back of the subpoena the date, time and place that it was served and noting the name of the person to whom it was delivered. Proof of service shall be signed by the person who actually served the subpoena.

(f) In the absence of a justification satisfactory to the court, a person who fails to obey a subpoena may be deemed to be in contempt of court and a bench warrant may be issued for his or her arrest.
