
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VII - Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior
### PART 1200 - AMERICAN INDIAN TRUST FUND MANAGEMENT REFORM ACT
#### Subpart B - Withdrawing Tribal Funds From Trust
##### ยง 1200.15 What is the approval process for management plans?

The Secretary will approve or disapprove each management plan, based in part upon our recommendation.

(a) We will determine the completeness of the application, provide for adequate professional review of the application and the management plan, and provide technical assistance as necessary to make an application complete.

(b) We will coordinate with regional directors in confirming authority of tribal governments to make requests.

(c) We will approve or disapprove a request within 90 calendar days of receiving a completed application. This 90-day period does not include time that we spend awaiting a response from the tribe for additional information that we have requested. All determinations will be in writing, and all responses will be by certified mail.

(d) If we find that a plan does not meet the criteria in ยง 1200.16, we will notify the tribe of shortcomings of the request, and allow the tribe to respond before recommending formal disapproval.

(e) Before final approval, we will reach agreement with the tribe on how many days after final approval we will transfer the funds. We will transfer the funds as soon after final approval as the tribe or manager is ready to receive them, unless we need additional time to sell existing instruments.
