
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter VII - Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior
### PART 1200 - AMERICAN INDIAN TRUST FUND MANAGEMENT REFORM ACT
#### Subpart B - Withdrawing Tribal Funds From Trust
##### ยง 1200.16 What criteria will be used in evaluating the management plan?

Each plan must be approved by the appropriate tribal governing body, and must be accompanied by a resolution approving the plan. The plan must be reasonable in light of the trust responsibility and the principles of Indian self-determination, and other appropriate factors, including, but not limited to, the factors listed below:

(a) We will evaluate the individuals or entities that will manage the funds to be withdrawn, or that will advise the tribe on investing the funds to be withdrawn in order to determine if they have the capability and experience to manage the funds. Among the elements we will evaluate are: the number of years in business, the performance record for funds management, and the ability to compensate the tribe if the entity is found liable for failing to comply with the tribe's management plan (i.e., its assets, bonding, and insurance).

(b) We will review the tribe's experience in managing investments. We will compare this experience to the complexity of the proposed management plan to determine whether the tribe has the experience to manage its proposed plan or whether it should begin with a less complex approach.

(c) We will evaluate the tribe's internal audit and control systems for overseeing or monitoring its investment activity.

(d) We will evaluate the adequacy of protection against substantial loss of principal. Our determination will include a thorough evaluation of the tribe's investment plan including:

(1) The goals and objectives;

(2) The proposed uses of the fund in order to meet business objectives;

(3) The size and diversity of the investment portfolio (for example, the class of stocks and the mixture of types of investments);

(4) The financial condition of the tribe;

(5) The inherent riskiness of the proposed investments; and

(6) The tribe's projected need and proposed timeframes to draw down the funds being invested or the income from them.

(e) We will determine the likelihood that the plan will be followed. We will base this determination on the contents of the agreement between the tribe and the fund manager and other appropriate factors.
