
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Law and Order
#### PART 11 - COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE
##### Subpart C - Criminal Procedure
###### ยง 11.314 Jury trials.

(a) A defendant has a right, upon demand, to a jury trial in any criminal case:

(1) That is punishable by a maximum sentence of one year incarceration; or

(2) In which the prosecutor informs the court before the case comes to trial that a jail sentence will be sought.

(b) If the prosecutor informs the court that no sentence of incarceration will be sought, the court may not impose a sentence of incarceration for the offense.

(c) A jury must consist of not less than six residents of the vicinity in which trial is held, selected from a list of eligible jurors prepared each year by the court.

(1) An eligible juror must:

(i) Be at least 18 years of age;

(ii) Not have been convicted of a felony; and

(iii) Be otherwise qualified according to standards established by the Court of Indian Offenses under its general rulemaking authority.

(2) Any party may challenge without cause a maximum of three members of the jury panel chosen under this section.

(d) The magistrate shall instruct the jury with regard to the applicable law and the jury shall decide all questions of fact on the basis of the law.

(e) The jury shall deliberate in secret and return a verdict of guilty or not guilty. Six out of the eight jurors must concur to render a verdict.

(f) Each juror who serves on a jury is entitled to a fee not less than the hourly minimum wage scale established by 29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1), and any of its subsequent revisions, plus mileage not to exceed the maximum rate per mile established by the Federal Government of jurors and witnesses. Each juror shall receive pay for a full day (eight hours) for any portion of a day served, plus travel allowance.
