
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 30 - STANDARDS, ASSESSMENTS, AND ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Accountability, Waiver of Requirements, Technical Assistance, and Approval of Proposals for Alternative Requirements
###### ยง 30.113 How does a tribal governing body or school board waive the Secretary's requirements?

(a) A tribal governing body or school board may waive the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system, in part or in whole.

(b) The tribal governing body or school board must notify the Secretary and the Secretary of Education in writing of the decision to waive the Secretary's requirements in part or in whole.

(c) Within sixty (60) days of the decision to waive the Secretary's requirements in part or in whole, the tribal governing body or school board must submit to the Secretary for review and, in coordination with the Secretary of Education, approval, a proposal for alternative requirements that are consistent with section 1111 of the Act, taking into account the unique circumstances and needs of the school or schools and the students served. The Secretary encourages a tribal governing body or school board to request and receive technical assistance well in advance of submission of a plan to the Secretary for review. The tribal governing body or school board must continue to follow the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system until a proposal for alternative requirements has been approved and until alternative requirements become effective.

(d) A tribal governing body or school board may request in writing an extension of the sixty (60) day deadline for the provision of technical assistance.

(e) A tribal governing body or school board must use this process anytime a tribal governing body or school board proposes alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system, or proposes changes to approved alternative requirements.

(f) The Secretary will work with the Secretary of Education to develop and make available templates for proposals for alternative requirements that tribal governing bodies and school boards may use to assist in the development of such proposals for alternative requirements.
