
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 30 - STANDARDS, ASSESSMENTS, AND ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Accountability, Waiver of Requirements, Technical Assistance, and Approval of Proposals for Alternative Requirements
###### ยง 30.119 How does the Secretary review and approve alternative requirements?

(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Education will jointly approve plans for alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system or determine that the proposed alternative requirements do not meet the requirements of section 1111 of the Act.

(1) The Secretary will consult with the Secretary of Education through the review of a proposal for alternative requirements.

(2) Upon receipt of a proposal for alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system, in part or in whole, the Secretary will begin coordination with the Secretary of Education on review and approval of the proposal.

(3) The Secretary will provide a status update regarding the processing of the proposal within 120 days of receipt of the proposal and every thirty (30) days thereafter to discuss the stage of the review process.

(b) If the Secretary and the Secretary of Education approve a proposal for alternative requirements, the Secretary will:

(1) Promptly notify the tribal governing body or school board; and

(2) Indicate the date for which the alternative proposal will be effective.

(c) If a proposal for alternative requirements is not approved, the tribal governing body or school board will be notified that:

(1) The proposal has not been approved; and

(2) The reasons why the alternative proposal was not approved.

(d) If a proposal for alternative requirements is not approved, the Secretary will provide technical assistance to the tribal governing body or school board to help to overcome the reasons why the alternative proposal was not approved.

(e) If a proposal for alternative requirements is not approved, or is not moving forward, then Tribes may individually request formal consultation with the Secretary and Secretary of Education.
