
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart B - Educational Management
###### ยง 36.10 Standard I - Philosophy and goals.

(a) Each school shall develop a written mission statement and philosophy of education that addresses the accumulation of knowledge and development of skills, interests, appreciations, ideals, and attitudes within the school's total educational program. A statement of expected outcomes shall outline what the school is attempting to do to meet the needs and interests of its students and community in accordance with the school's mission statement and philosophy.

(b) The statement of philosophy and goals shall be developed with the involvement of students, parents, lay citizens, school staff, and tribe(s) and shall be formally adopted by the local school board.

(c) The philosophy and goals shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary by each school.

(d) A copy of the philosophy and goals shall be submitted to the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.

(e) Informational provisions shall be developed in the form of a manual, handbook, brochure, or other written document(s) of the minimum academic standards of the school's programs and the basic rules and procedures of the school. The staff, students, and parents shall receive the written document or documents and have same explained to all who request explanation. The topics covered in the document(s) shall include but not be limited to the following:

(1) Statement of philosophy and goals;

(2) Description of how policies are developed and administered;

(3) A brief explanation of curricular offerings;

(4) A copy of student rights handbook;

(5) Basic practices related to:

(i) Grading system;

(ii) Graduation requirements, if applicable;

(iii) Attendance policies;

(iv) Special programs at the school; and

(v) Student activities available for students.
