
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart B - Educational Management
###### ยง 36.11 Standard II - Administrative requirements.
####### Staffing.

(a)Each school shall, at a minimum, meet the following requirements:

(1) The overall school ratio of regular program students to regular program teachers in self-contained classrooms shall not exceed the following except under the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section. Average daily membership (ADM) shall be used in meeting the following ratios.

(2) Multi-grade classrooms that cross grade-level boundaries (e.g., K-1, 3-4, etc.) shall use the maximum of the lower grade. In grades K-8, grades shall be consolidated to meet the teacher ratios listed above.

(3) The daily teaching load per teacher in departmentalized classes shall not exceed 150 students (ADM) except in activity type classes such as music and physical education.

(4) Schools exceeding these specific staffing ratios for over 30 consecutive days during one school year shall submit a justification for a request for a waiver to the Director, through the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate, which may be approved for a period not to exceed one school year and for the following reasons:

(i) Additional classroom space is not available for establishing another class; or

(ii) The school, Agency, Area and Office of Indian Education Programs Applicant Supply File has been exhausted and the required teacher position cannot be filled. However, efforts to fill the vacancy shall be continued.

(5) Each school shall provide, in the absence of a regular teacher, a certified substitute teacher who meets the State substitute teacher qualifications. In the event that such a substitute is not available, coverage will be provided by a school employee designated by the school supervisor. A class cannot have as a teacher an employee without teaching credentials for more than 20 school days during any one school year.
