
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart B - Educational Management
###### ยง 36.12 Standard III - Program needs assessment.

The policy and procedures of each school and its curricula shall be developed and revised based on an assessment of educational needs. This needs assessment shall be conducted at least every seven (7) years at the same frequency as required in ยง 36.50, School Program Evaluation. This assessment shall include at least the following:

(a) A clear statement of student educational goals and objectives. A student educational goal is defined as a statement of the knowledge, skills, attitudes, or concepts students are expected to exhibit upon completion of a grade level. Student educational objectives are defined as statements of more specific knowledge, skills, attitudes, or concepts students must exhibit in order to achieve the goal.

(b) The collection of appropriate data from which valid determinations, judgments, and decisions can be made with respect to the status of the educational program, e.g.,

(1) Perceptions of the parents, tribes, educators, and the students with regard to the relevance and importance of the goals.

(2) The extent to which educational goals and objectives have been achieved.

(3) The data developed as a result of the evaluation outlined in ยง 36.50 School Program Evaluation.

(c) A statement of educational needs which identifies the difference between the current status of students and the desired goals for the students.

(d) A plan of action to remediate assessed needs.
