
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart C - Minimum Program of Instruction
###### ยง 36.20 Standard V - Minimum academic programs/school calendar.

(a) If an emergency arises from an uncontrollable circumstance during the school day which results in the dismissal of students by the school administration, the day may be counted as a school day provided that three-fourths of the instructional hours are met.

(b) The educational program shall include multi-culture and multi-ethnic dimensions designed to enable students to function effectively in a pluralistic society.

(1) The school's language arts program shall assess the English and native language abilities of its students and provide instruction that teaches and/or maintains both the English and the primary native language of the school population. Programs shall meet local tribal approval.

(2) The school program shall include aspects of the native culture in all curriculum areas. Content shall meet local tribal approval.

(3) The school program shall assess the learning styles of its students and provide instruction based upon that assessment. The method for assessing learning styles shall be determined at the local level.

(4) The school program shall provide for at least one field trip per child per year to broaden social and academic experiences.

(c) All intraschool programs (e.g., library, instructional labs, physical education, music, etc.) which are directly related to or affect student instruction shall provide services from the beginning of the school term through the final class period at the close of the school term.
