
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart C - Minimum Program of Instruction
###### ยง 36.24 Standard IX - Secondary instructional program.
####### Vocational education.

(9)Curriculum shall be designed and directly related to actual occupational trends (national, regional, and local) and to introduce and familiarize students with various occupations in technology, industry and business, as well as required special skills and the training requisites. Programs shall be directed toward assisting students in making career choices and developing consumer skills and may include the following:

(i) Vocational exploration,

(ii) Vocational skill development, and

(iii) School/on-the-job cooperative education programs.

(c) The following shall be integrated into the curriculum:

(1) Consumer economics (including personal finances),

(2) Metric education,

(3) Safety education, and

(4) Health education. (In addition, the program shall meet the requirements contained in 24 Stat. 69.)

(d) The high school program shall provide program coordination with feeder schools, career direction, and preparation for the student entering independent living through employment, post-secondary education, and/or marriage.

(e) Yearly class schedules shall take into account the graduation requirements of each student.

(f) Student enrollment in any laboratory or vocational class shall be consistent with applicable health and safety standards.

(g) Schools are encouraged to provide alternative programs that lead to high school completion for secondary students who do not function successfully in the regular academic setting.
