
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart D - Student Instructional Evaluation
###### ยง 36.30 Standard X - Grading requirements.

(a) Each school shall implement a uniform grading system which assesses a student's mastery of the prescribed objectives of the courses of study undertaken. The mastery of prescribed course objectives shall be the primary measure of academic attainment for reporting student grades on report cards.

(b) The information derived from student instructional evaluations shall be shared with the student and with the parents and shall be used to give teachers and students direction for subsequent learning activities.

(c) Parent/teacher and parent/teacher/student conferences focused on the student's instructional progress and development shall be held, where feasible and practical, to provide an additional means of communication between home and school. Residential schools may meet this standard by documenting the communication of student grades on report cards to parents.

(d) Each school shall issue a report card to parents of students who are under the age of eighteen (18) and to students eighteen (18) years of age and older on a regular basis, but not less than four (4) times yearly. The report card shall include, but not be limited to, the following sections:

(1) Recommendations and probable promotion status;

(2) Appropriate signatures and request for return of report cards; and

(3) Student attendance record.

(e) A summary of each year's final card shall become part of the student's permanent school record.
