
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart D - Student Instructional Evaluation
###### ยง 36.31 Standard XI - Student promotion requirements.

Each school shall establish and implement a promotion policy which shall be submitted to and approved by the local school board and Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate. The requirements shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(a) Each grade level or equivalent shall have a minimum criteria for student promotion based primarily on measurable mastery of the instructional objectives.

(b) Criterion-referenced tests that evaluate student skills shall be utilized for measuring the mastery of instructional objectives. The evaluation results shall form the basis for the promotion of each student.

(c) A student who has not participated, either directly or through approved alternative instructional methods or programs, in a minimum of 160 instructional days per academic term or 80 instructional days per semester without a written excused absence shall not be promoted. A school board or a school committee may review a promotion decision and, if warranted due to compelling and/or extenuating circumstances, rescind in writing such action on a case-by-case basis. Alternative instructional methods shall be submitted in writing for approval by the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.
