
# Title 25 - Indians
## Chapter I - Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Education
#### PART 36 - MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS
##### Subpart D - Student Instructional Evaluation
###### ยง 36.32 Standard XII - Graduation requirements for a high school diploma.

Graduation requirements contained under this section shall be applied beginning with the graduating class of the 1987-88 school year.

(a) Satisfactory completion of a minimum number of units shall be the measure for the issuance of a high school diploma.

(b) To graduate, a student shall earn 20 units in a four year high school program unless the state in which the school is located exceeds these requirements, in which case the state's requirements shall apply; fifteen (15) units shall be required as follows:

(1) Language arts-four (4) units.

(2) Mathematics-three (3) units.

(3) Social studies-three (3) units.

(i) One (1) unit in United States history;

(ii) One-half () unit in civics/government;

(iii) One-half () unit in tribal history/government;

(iv) One-half () unit in Indian studies; and

(v) One-half () unit in any other social studies;

(4) Science-two (2) units.

(i) One (1) unit in the general science area.

(ii) One (1) unit in laboratory science areas, i.e., chemistry, physics, biology, zoology, laboratory anatomy.

(5) Physical education-one (1) unit.

(6) Practical arts-one (1) unit. Credit in any vocational course may also be used to satisfy this required unit.

(7) Fine arts-one (1) unit. Music, art, dance, drama, theatre, and other fine arts courses may be used to satisfy this required unit. These are minimum requirements; local schools may establish academic or vocational requirements beyond those prescribed by these standards.

(c) A school with an average enrollment of fewer than 75 students may offer subjects in alternate years. If schools use this pattern, alternating pairs of subjects shall be listed and approved by the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.

(d) Credits earned through approved correspondence or extension study may be accepted if such credits are from schools approved or accredited by the state in which they are located or by a college or university which is regionally accredited for such purposes.

(e) Students who successfully complete the requirements of the High School Proficiency Examination in the State in which the school is located shall receive an endorsement so stating on their diplomas.
