
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 438 - RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING
#### Subpart D - Penalties and Enforcement
##### ยง 438.400 Penalties.

(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited by this part is subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each prohibited expenditure.

(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see Appendix B to this part) to be filed or amended if required by this part is subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each failure.

(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is begun does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action begins with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to begin an investigation of an allegation of such failure.

(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, SSA will consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of the person to continue in business, any prior violations by the person, the degree of culpability of the person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and any other matters that may be appropriate.

(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section are subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons are subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the Commissioner or his or her designee.

(f) Imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of the civil penalty.
