
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 438 - RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 438.110 Certification and disclosure.

(a) Each person must file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates SSA consideration of that person for:

(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or

(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.

(b) Each person must file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, if he or she receives:

(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or

(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000, unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Each person must file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by that person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:

(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or

(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,

(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.

(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:

(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;

(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;

(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,

(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement, must file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.

(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, must be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person must forward all disclosure forms to SSA.

(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section will be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers must rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation will be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and will not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.

(g) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C of this part.
