
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 438 - RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING
#### Subpart F - Agency Reports
##### ยง 438.600 Semi-annual compilation.

(a) The Commissioner of Social Security will collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B to this part) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the 6-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.

(b) The report, including the compilation, will be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.

(c) Information that involves intelligence matters will be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information will not be available for public inspection.

(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order will be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information will not be available for public inspection.

(e) The first semi-annual compilation was submitted on May 31, 1990, and contains a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.

(f) Major agencies designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) were required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives by May 31, 1991. OMB provided detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.

(g) SSA will keep the originals of all disclosure reports in our official files.
