
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 498 - CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS AND RECOMMENDED EXCLUSIONS
#### ยง 498.209 Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.

(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual, whose appearance and testimony are relevant and material to the presentation of a party's case at a hearing, may make a motion requesting the ALJ to issue a subpoena.

(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance of an individual may also require the individual (whether or not the individual is a party) to produce evidence at the hearing in accordance with ยง 498.207.

(c) A party seeking a subpoena will file a written motion not less than 30 days before the date fixed for the hearing, unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request will:

(1) Specify any evidence to be produced;

(2) Designate the witness(es); and

(3) Describe the address and location with sufficient particularity to permit such witness(es) to be found.

(d) Within 20 days after the written motion requesting issuance of a subpoena is served, any party may file an opposition or other response.

(e) If the motion requesting issuance of a subpoena is granted, the party seeking the subpoena will serve the subpoena by delivery to the individual named, or by certified mail addressed to such individual at his or her last dwelling place or principal place of business.

(f) The subpoena will specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any evidence the witness is to produce.

(g) The individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service.

(h) When a subpoena is served by a respondent on a particular individual or particular office of the Office of the Inspector General, the OIG may comply by designating any of its representatives to appear and testify.

(i) In the case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena duly served upon any person, the exclusive remedy is specified in section 205(e) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(e)).
