
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 498 - CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS AND RECOMMENDED EXCLUSIONS
#### ยง 498.208 Exchange of witness lists, witness statements and exhibits.

(a) At least 15 days before the hearing, the parties shall exchange:

(1) Witness lists;

(2) Copies of prior written statements of proposed witnesses; and

(3) Copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with ยง 498.216.

(b)(1) Failure to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may result in the exclusion of evidence or testimony upon the objection of the opposing party.

(2) When an objection is entered, the ALJ shall determine whether good cause justified the failure to timely exchange the information listed under paragraph (a) of this section. If good cause is not found, the ALJ shall exclude from the party's case-in-chief:

(i) The testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list; and

(ii) Any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) If the ALJ finds that good cause exists, the ALJ shall determine whether the admission of such evidence would cause substantial prejudice to the objecting party due to the failure to comply with paragraph (a) of this section. If the ALJ finds no substantial prejudice, the evidence may be admitted. If the ALJ finds substantial prejudice, the ALJ may exclude the evidence, or at his or her discretion, may postpone the hearing for such time as is necessary for the objecting party to prepare and respond to the evidence.

(c) Unless a party objects by the deadline set by the ALJ's prehearing order pursuant to ยง 498.206 (b)(3) and (c), documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
