
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 498 - CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES, ASSESSMENTS AND RECOMMENDED EXCLUSIONS
#### ยง 498.222 Final decision of the Commissioner.

(a) Except with respect to any penalty or assessment remanded to the ALJ, the DAB's recommended decision, including a recommended decision to decline review of the initial decision, shall become the final decision of the Commissioner 60 days after the date on which the DAB serves the parties to the appeal and the Commissioner with a copy of the recommended decision, unless the Commissioner reverses or modifies the DAB's recommended decision within that 60-day period. If the Commissioner reverses or modifies the DAB's recommended decision, the Commissioner's decision is final and binding on the parties. In either event, a copy of the final decision will be served on the parties. If service is by mail, the date of service will be deemed to be five days from the date of mailing.

(b) There shall be no right to personally appear before or submit additional evidence, pleadings or briefs to the Commissioner.

(c)(1) Any petition for judicial review must be filed within 60 days after the parties are served with a copy of the final decision. If service is by mail, the date of service will be deemed to be five days from the date of mailing.

(2) In compliance with 28 U.S.C. 2112(a), a copy of any petition for judicial review filed in any U.S. Court of Appeals challenging a final action of the Commissioner will be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the SSA General Counsel. The petition copy will be time-stamped by the clerk of the court when the original is filed with the court.

(3) If the SSA General Counsel receives two or more petitions within 10 days after the final decision is issued, the General Counsel will notify the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation of any petitions that were received within the 10-day period.
