
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter IV - Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor
### PART 501 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
#### ยง 501.3 Notice of Appeal.
##### Date of filing.

(f)A notice of appeal complying with this paragraph (c) is considered to have been filed only if received by the Clerk of the Appellate Boards within the period specified under paragraph (e) of this section, except as otherwise provided in this subsection:

(1) If the notice of appeal is sent via the U.S. Postal Service or commercial carrier and use of the date of delivery as the date of filing would result in a loss of appeal rights, the appeal will be considered to have been filed as of the date of the postmark or other carriers' date markings. The date appearing on the U.S. Postal Service postmark or other carriers' date markings (when available and legible) shall be prima facie evidence of the date of mailing. If there is no such postmark or date marking, or it is illegible, then other evidence including, but not limited to, certified mail receipts, certificate of service, and affidavits, may be used to establish the mailing date. If a notice of appeal is delivered or sent by means other than the U.S. Postal Service or commercial carrier, including e-filing, personal delivery, or fax, the notice is deemed to be filed when received by the Clerk of the Appellate Boards.

(2) For electronic filings made through the Board's case management system, a document is deemed filed as of the date and time the Board's electronic case management system records its receipt, even if transmitted after the close of business. To be considered timely, an e-filed document or pleading must be filed by 11:59:59 p.m. Eastern Time on the due date.

(3) In computing the date of filing, the 180-day time period for filing an appeal begins to run on the day following the date of the OWCP decision. The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, in which event the period runs to the close of the next business day.
