
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart C - Continuation of Pay
###### Controversion and Termination of COP
####### ยง 10.222 When may an employer terminate COP which has already begun?

(a) Where the employer has continued the pay of the employee, it may be stopped only when at least one of the following circumstances is present:

(1) Medical evidence which on its face supports disability due to a work-related injury is not received within 10 calendar days after the claim is submitted (unless the employer's own investigation shows disability to exist). Where the medical evidence is later provided, however, COP shall be reinstated retroactive to the date of termination;

(2) The medical evidence from the treating physician shows that the employee is not disabled from his or her regular position;

(3) Medical evidence from the treating physician shows that the employee is not totally disabled, and the employee refuses a written offer of a suitable alternative position which is approved by the attending physician. If OWCP later determines that the position was not suitable, OWCP will direct the employer to grant the employee COP retroactive to the termination date.

(4) The employee returns to work with no loss of pay;

(5) The employee's period of employment expires or employment is otherwise terminated (as established prior to the date of injury);

(6) OWCP directs the employer to stop COP; and/or

(7) COP has been paid for 45 calendar days.

(b) An employer may not interrupt or stop COP to which the employee is otherwise entitled because of a disciplinary action, unless a preliminary notice was issued to the employee before the date of injury and the action becomes final or otherwise takes effect during the COP period.

(c) An employer cannot otherwise stop COP unless it does so for one of the reasons found in this section or ยง 10.220. Where an employer stops COP, it must file a controversion with OWCP, setting forth the basis on which it terminated COP, no later than the effective date of the termination.
