
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 603 - FEDERAL-STATE UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION (UC) PROGRAM; CONFIDENTIALITY AND DISCLOSURE OF STATE UC INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Confidentiality and Disclosure Requirements
##### ยง 603.5 What are the exceptions to the confidentiality requirement?
###### Public official.

(e)Disclosure of confidential UC information to a public official for use in the performance of his or her official duties is permissible.

(1) "Performance of official duties" means administration or enforcement of law or the execution of the official responsibilities of a Federal, State, or local elected official. Administration of law includes research related to the law administered by the public official. Execution of official responsibilities does not include solicitation of contributions or expenditures to or on behalf of a candidate for public or political office or a political party.

(2) For purposes of ยง 603.2(d)(2) through (5), "performance of official duties" includes, in addition to the activities set out in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, use of the confidential UC information for the following limited purposes:

(i) State and local performance accountability under WIOA sec. 116, including eligible training provider performance accountability under WIOA secs. 116(d) and 122;

(ii) The requirements of discretionary Federal grants awarded under WIOA; or

(iii) As otherwise required for education or workforce training program performance accountability and reporting under Federal or State law.
