
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 614 - UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR EX-SERVICEMEMBERS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 614.1 Purpose and application.
###### Effectuating purpose and rules of construction.

(d)(1) In order to effectuate the provisions of this section, each State agency shall forward to the United States Department of Labor (hereafter Department), not later than 10 days after issuance, a copy of each judicial or administrative decision ruling on an individual's entitlement to payment of UCX or to credit for a waiting period. On request of the Department, a State agency shall forward to the Department a copy of any determination or redetermination ruling on an individual's entitlement to UCX or waiting period credit.

(2)(i) If the Department believes that a determination, redetermination, or decision is inconsistent with the Department's interpretation of the Act or this part, the Department may at any time notify the State agency of the Department's view. Thereafter, the State agency shall issue a redetermination or appeal if possible, and shall not follow such determination, redetermination, or decision as a precedent; and, in any subsequent proceedings which involve such determination, redetermination, or decision, or wherein such determination, redetermination, or decision is cited as precedent or otherwise relied upon, the State agency shall inform the claims deputy or hearing officer or court of the Department's view and shall make all reasonable efforts, including appeal or other proceedings in an appropriate forum, to obtain modification, limitation, or overruling of the determination, redetermination, or decision.

(ii) If the Department believes that a State agency has failed to use, or use in a timely manner, the crossmatch mechanism at the claims control center designated by the Department, the Department may at any time notify the State of the Department's view. Thereafter, the State agency shall take action to ensure that operable procedures for the effective utilization of the claims control center are in place and adhered to. In any case of any determination, redetermination, or decision that is not legally warranted under the Act or this part had the State used, or used in a timely manner, the crossmatch mechanism at the claims control center designated by the Department, State agency shall take the steps outlined in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) If the Department believes that a determination, redetermination, or decision is patently and flagrantly violative of the Act or this part, the Department may at any time notify the State agency of the Department's view. If the determination, redetermination, or decision in question denies UCX to a claimant, the steps outlined in paragraph (2) above shall be followed by the State agency. If the determination, redetermination, or decision in question awards UCX to a claimant, the benefits are "due" within the meaning of section 303(a)(1) of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 503(a)(1), and therefore must be paid promptly to the claimant. However, the State agency shall take the steps outlined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and payments to the claimant may be temporarily delayed if redetermination or appeal action is taken not more than one business day following the day on which the first payment otherwise would be issued to the claimant; and the redetermination action is taken or appeal is filed to obtain a reversal of the award of UCX and a ruling consistent with the Department's view; and the redetermination action or appeal seeks an expedited redetermination or appeal within not more than two weeks after the redetermination action is taken or the appeal is filed. If redetermination action is not taken or appeal is not filed within the above time limit, or a redetermination or decision is not obtained within the two-week limit, or any redetermination or decision or order is issued which affirms the determination, redetermination, or decision awarding UCX or allows it to stand in whole or in part, the benefits awarded must be paid promptly to the claimant.

(4)(i) If any determination, redetermination, or decision, referred to in paragraph (d)(2) or paragraph (d)(3) of this section, is treated as a precedent for any future UCX claim or claim under the UCFE Program (part 609 of this chapter), the Secretary will decide whether the Agreement with the State entered into under the Act shall be terminated.

(ii) In the case of any determination, redetermination, or decision that is not legally warranted under the Act or this part, including any determination, redetermination, or decision referred to in paragraph (d)(2) or in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Secretary will decide whether the State shall be required to restore the funds of the United States for any sums paid under such a determination, redetermination, or decision, and whether, in absence of such restoration, the Agreement with the State shall be terminated and whether other action shall be taken to recover such sums for the United States.

(5) A State agency may request reconsideration of a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) or paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and shall be given an opportunity to present views and arguments if desired.

(6) Concurrence of the Department in a determination, redetermination, or decision shall not be presumed from the absence of a notice issued pursuant to this section.
