
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 614 - UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR EX-SERVICEMEMBERS
#### Subpart C - Responsibilities of Federal Military Agencies and State Agencies
##### ยง 614.22 Correcting Federal findings.
###### Request for correction.

(a)(1) If an individual believes that a finding specified in ยง 614.21 is incorrect or that information as to any finding has been omitted from a military document, the individual may request the issuing Federal military agency to correct the military document. A request for correction may be made through the State agency, which shall forward such request and any supporting information submitted by the individual to the Federal military agency.

(2) The Federal military agency shall promptly forward to the individual or State agency making the request the corrected military document. Information contained in a corrected military document issued pursuant to such a request shall constitute the findings of the Federal military agency under ยง 614.21.

(3) If a determination or redetermination based on a finding as to which correction is sought has been issued by a State agency before a request for correction under this paragraph is made, the individual who requested such correction shall file a request for redetermination or appeal from such determination or redetermination with the State agency, and shall inform the State agency of the request for correction.

(4) An individual who files a request for correction of findings under this paragraph shall promptly notify the State agency of the action of the Federal military agency on such request.
