
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 615 - EXTENDED BENEFITS IN THE FEDERAL-STATE UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM
#### ยง 615.8 Provisions of State law applicable to claims.
##### Classification and determination of job prospects.

(d)(1) As to each individual who files an initial claim for Extended Benefits (or sharable regular compensation), the State agency shall classify the individual's prospects for obtaining work in his/her customary occupation within a reasonably short period, as "good" or "not good," and shall promptly (not later than the end of the week in which the initial claim is filed) notify the individual in writing of such classification and of the requirements applicable to the individual under the provisions of the applicable State law corresponding to section 202(a)(3) of EUCA and this part. Such requirements shall be applicable beginning with the week following the week in which the individual is furnished such written notice.

(2) If an individual is thus classified as having good prospects, but those prospects are not realized by the close of the period the State law specifies as a reasonably short period, the individual's prospects will be automatically reclassified as "not good" or classified as "good" or "not good" depending on the individual's job prospects as of that date.

(3) Whenever, as part of a determination of an individual's eligibility for benefits, an issue arises concerning the individual's failure to apply for or accept an offer of work (sections 202(a)(3)(A)(i) and (F) of EUCA and paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section), or to actively engage in seeking work (sections 202(a)(3)(A)(ii) and (E) of EUCA and paragraph (g) of this section), a written appealable determination shall be made which includes a finding as to the individual's job prospects at the time the issue arose. The reasons for allowing or denying benefits in the written notice of determination shall explain how the individual's job prospects relate to the decision to allow or deny benefits.

(4) If an individual's job prospects are determined in accordance with the preceding paragraph (3) to be "good," the suitability of work will be determined under the standard State law provisions applicable to claimants for regular compensation which is not sharable; and if determined to be "not good," the suitability of work will be determined under the definition of suitable work in the State law provisions corresponding to sections 202(a)(3) (C) and (D) of EUCA and this part. Any determination or classification of an individual's job prospects is mutually exclusive, and only one suitable work definition shall be applied to a claimant as to any failure to accept or apply for work or seek work with respect to any week.
