
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 615 - EXTENDED BENEFITS IN THE FEDERAL-STATE UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM
#### ยง 615.7 Extended Benefits; maximum amount.
##### Changes in accounts.

(c)(1) If an individual is entitled to more or less Extended Benefits as a result of a redetermination or an appeal which awarded more or less regular compensation or Extended Benefits, an appropriate change shall be made in the individual's Extended Benefit Account pursuant to an amended determination of the individual's entitlement to Extended Benefits.

(2) If an individual who has received Extended Benefits for a week of unemployment is determined to be entitled to more regular compensation with respect to such week as the result of a redetermination or an appeal, the Extended Benefits paid shall be treated as if they were regular compensation up to the greater amount to which the individual has been determined to be entitled, and the State agency shall make appropriate adjustments between the regular and extended accounts. If the individual is entitled to more Extended Benefits as a result of being entitled to more regular compensation, an amended determination shall be made of the individual's entitlement to Extended Benefits. If the greater amount of regular compensation results in an increased duration of regular compensation, the individual's status as an exhaustee shall be redetermined as of the new date of exhaustion of regular compensation.

(3) If an individual who has received Extended Benefits for a week of unemployment is determined to be entitled to less regular compensation as the result of a redetermination or an appeal, and as a consequence is entitled to less Extended Benefits, any Extended Benefits paid in excess of the amount to which the individual is determined to be entitled after the redetermination or decision on appeal shall be considered an overpayment which the individual shall have to repay on the same basis and in the same manner that excess payments of regular compensation are required to be repaid under the applicable State law. If such decision reduces the duration of regular compensation payable to the individual, the claim for Extended Benefits shall be backdated to the earliest date, subsequent to the date when the redetermined regular compensation was exhausted and within the individual's eligibility period, that the individual was eligible to file a claim for Extended Benefits. Any such changes shall be made pursuant to an amended determination of the individual's entitlement to Extended Benefits.
