
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart C - Employment and Case Management Services
##### ยง 618.350 Individual employment plans for trade-affected workers.

(a) A State must:

(1) Make available an IEP; and

(2) Document an IEP for any trade-affected worker seeking training under subpart F of this part or a job search allowance under subpart D of this part, before the worker receives those benefits and services.

(b) An IEP must use the results of the initial and, if available, comprehensive and specialized assessments to assist in documenting a strategy to provide the trade-affected worker with the services needed to obtain employment, including the items listed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) An IEP must document:

(1) The trade-affected worker's employment goal, including the targeted occupation and industry;

(2) The training program proposed, if any;

(3) Any services that will be needed by the worker to obtain suitable employment, including career services, supportive services provided through partner programs, and post-training case management services;

(4) If applicable, any supplemental assistance (subsistence or transportation payments) required for participation in training and the basis for their calculation; and

(5) The worker's responsibilities under the plan.

(d) If an IEP has been previously developed with a trade-affected worker by a partner program, it must be reviewed once the worker becomes TAA Program-eligible to ensure it has the components required by paragraph (c) of this section. If the IEP does not contain the components, the IEP must be supplemented by the State in conjunction with the worker to ensure it is fully compliant with the TAA Program requirements in this part.

(e) The State must monitor the progress of the trade-affected worker in meeting the worker's responsibilities as listed in the IEP, including attendance and achievement in approved training programs.

(f)(1) The State must modify the IEP as necessary to facilitate a successful performance outcome for the trade-affected worker.

(2) The modification must be done with the worker's input.

(3) At a minimum, the IEP must be modified when there is a change in the training program, receipt of supplemental assistance, or both.

(g) The State must make the trade-affected worker aware of the advantages of receiving an IEP. However, a worker may refuse to complete an IEP. Since portions of the IEP are necessary to determine eligibility for job search allowances under subpart D of this part and training under subpart F of this part, a worker's refusal to provide necessary information, either as part of the IEP or outside of the IEP process, may result in a denial of a those benefits and services. This is detailed further in subparts D and F of this part.
