
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart D - Job Search and Relocation Allowances
##### ยง 618.455 Determining the amount of a relocation allowance.
###### Movement of household goods.,https://www.gsa.gov.

(3)(i) The State may reimburse the worker for 90 percent of the allowable costs of moving the workers and family's household goods and personal effects in accordance with the FTR (41 CFR chapter 302). This includes 90 percent of the costs of moving by the most economical commercial carrier the State can reasonably expect the worker to use, moving by rental truck or trailer (for rental, mileage, and fuel), or moving a house trailer or mobile home. It also includes 90 percent of the costs of temporary storage of household goods for up to 60 days. In approving the move of a house trailer or mobile home, the State must follow the specific requirements of the FTR, found at

(ii) For a commercial carrier move of household goods or house trailer or mobile home, the worker must obtain an estimate of the moving cost and provide this to the liable State. The estimate may include the cost of insuring such goods and effects for their actual value or $40,000 as delineated in the FTR, whichever is less, against loss or damage in transit.

(iii) If more economical, the State may make direct arrangements for moving and insuring a worker's household goods and personal effects with a carrier and insurer selected by the worker and may make payment of 90 percent of moving and insurance costs directly to the carrier and insurer. No such arrangement releases a carrier from liability otherwise provided by law or contract for loss or damage to the worker's goods and effects. Any contract for moving and insuring an AAW's household goods must provide that the United States must not be or become liable to either party for personal injury or property loss damage under any circumstances.

(iv) The maximum net weight of the household goods relocated from the worker's old home to the relocation area may not exceed that set by the FTR.
