
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart E - Reemployment Trade Adjustment Assistance
##### ยง 618.515 Continuing eligibility and timing of payments.
###### Continuing eligibility for RTAA.

(a)(1) Changing jobs during reemployment does not disqualify an otherwise eligible AAW from receiving subsequent RTAA payments for the remainder of the 104-week (2-year) eligibility period if the new reemployment meets the requirements of ยง 618.505.

(2) An AAW already receiving RTAA payments who has a period of unemployment will not be eligible to receive RTAA for that period. Upon reemployment, the AAW must notify the State. If the new reemployment meets the requirements of ยง 618.505 and the worker meets all other eligibility requirements in this part, the AAW will be eligible to receive RTAA in accordance with the requirements of this section for the remaining portion of the 104-week (2-year) eligibility period.

(3) If during a year during the 2-year eligibility period an AAW's cumulative wages exceed, or are projected to exceed, $50,000, the AAW will no longer be eligible to receive additional RTAA payments within that year. The AAW will be eligible for RTAA benefits in the next year and RTAA payments will resume until wages exceed, or are projected to exceed, $50,000, or until the $10,000 benefit limit is reached.

(4) If the worker is employed part-time (at least 20 hours per week) and receiving RTAA while in TAA approved training, the State must verify participation in training on a monthly basis. Verification of participation in TAA approved training will be conducted in accordance with State policies. States may use training benchmarks, described at ยง 618.660, as a method of verification of participation.
