
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 219 - EVIDENCE REQUIRED FOR PAYMENT
##### Subpart C - Evidence of Relationship
###### ยง 219.32 Evidence of a common-law marriage.
####### Preferred evidence.

(a)Evidence of a common-law marriage must give the reasons why the informant believes that a marriage exists. If the information described in this paragraph is not furnished on a form provided by the Board, it must be submitted in the form of a sworn statement. Preferred evidence of a common-law marriage is one of the following:

(1) If both the husband and wife are alive, each shall sign a statement and get signed statements from one blood relative of each. The statement of another individual may be submitted for each statement the husband or wife is unable to get from a relative. Each signed statement should show-

(i) That the husband and wife believed they were married;

(ii) The basis for this belief; and

(iii) That the husband and wife have presented themselves to the public as husband and wife.

(2) If either the husband or wife is dead, the surviving spouse shall furnish a signed statement and signed statements from two blood relatives of the dead spouse. The surviving spouse's statement should show that he or she and the dead spouse believed themselves to be married, the basis for this belief, and that they presented themselves to the public as husband and wife. The statements from relatives of the dead spouse should support the surviving spouse's statement.

(3) If both husband and wife are dead, the applicant shall get a signed statement from one blood relative of each dead spouse. Each statement should show that the husband and wife believed themselves to be married, the basis for this belief, and that they presented themselves to the public as husband and wife.

(4) Statements by relatives and other individuals described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section are not required when-

(i) The husband and wife entered into a ceremonial marriage which was void because of a legal impediment to the marriage;

(ii) After the impediment was removed, the husband and wife continued to live together as man and wife until the employee filed an application or one of them died; and

(iii) A valid common-law marriage was established, under the law of the State in which they lived, by their continuing to live together as man and wife.
