
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart F - Training Services
##### ยง 618.610 Criteria for approval of training.
###### Criterion 5.

(e)The trade-affected worker is qualified to undertake and complete such training. States must ensure the following:

(1) The worker's knowledge, skills, abilities, educational background, work experience, and financial resources are adequate to undertake and complete the specific training program being considered.

(2) Any initial assessment, comprehensive and specialized assessment, and IEP developed under subpart C of this part must be consulted to support the trade-affected worker's ability to undertake and complete the training program.

(3) Where the worker's remaining available weeks of UI and TRA payments will not equal or exceed the duration of the training program, that the worker will have sufficient financial resources to support completion of the training program within the time limits noted in ยง 618.615(d). In making this determination, the State must consider:

(i) The worker's remaining weeks of UI and TRA payments in relation to the duration of the proposed training program;

(ii) Other sources of income support available to the worker, including severance, earnings of other family members, and other family resources;

(iii) Other fixed financial obligations and expenses of the worker and family;

(iv) The availability of Federal student financial assistance or any State-funded student financial assistance or any private funding designated for student financial assistance including, but not limited to, nongovernmental scholarships, awards, or grants; and

(v) Whether or not the worker is employed while attending training.

(4) The State must document whether or not the trade-affected worker has sufficient financial resources to complete the training program that exceeds the duration of UI and TRA payments.

(5) If a worker has insufficient financial resources to complete the worker's proposed training program that exceeds the duration of UI and TRA payments, then the State must not approve that training program and must instead consider other training opportunities available to the worker.
