
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart F - Training Services
##### ยง 618.610 Criteria for approval of training.
###### Criterion 3.

(c)There is a reasonable expectation of employment following completion of such training. Given the labor market conditions expected to exist at the time of the completion of the training program, a reasonable expectation, fairly and objectively considered, exists that the trade-affected worker is likely to find employment, using the skills and education acquired while in training, upon completion of approved training. The labor market conditions considered must be limited to those in the worker's commuting area, or in the area where the worker intends to relocate.

(1) "A reasonable expectation of employment" does not require that employment opportunities for the worker be available, or offered, immediately upon the completion of the approved training program. When initially approving such training, there must be a projection, based on labor market information, of employment opportunities expected to exist at the time of completion of the training program.

(2) The State must measure expected job market conditions using pertinent labor market data, including but not limited to job order activity, short-term projections data, job vacancy surveys, business visitation programs, and local and regional strategic plans. This labor market information should be documented in the trade-affected worker's case file. The State should also work with the LWDBs and their one-stop partners, especially business team members, to understand current labor market conditions and opportunities for work-based learning.

(3) When a worker desires to relocate within the United States, but outside the worker's present commuting area, upon completion of training, the State must document the labor market information, described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, for the area of the planned relocation.

(4) A reasonable expectation of employment may exist in a limited demand occupation for a single, trained worker in the worker's commuting area or in an area to which the worker desires to relocate. A limited demand for such an occupation does not preclude the approval of training in an occupation where the State has determined that there is a reasonable expectation that the worker can secure employment in that occupation. States must verify with businesses in the commuting area or in the area of intended relocation that demand exists for an individual with such training. These efforts must be documented in the trade-affected workers case file. Before approving training in occupations with limited demand, the State must consider the number of individuals currently enrolled in training that are likely to meet that demand before enrolling additional workers in training for that occupation.

(5) A State may approve a training program in an occupation if it finds that there is a reasonable expectation that the training will lead to self-employment in the occupation for which the worker requests training and that such self-employment will provide the worker with wages or earnings at or near the worker's wages in adversely affected employment.

(6) Training programs that consist solely of OJT or contain an OJT component are not approvable if they are not expected to lead to suitable employment, with the employer providing the OJT, in compliance with section 236(c)(1)(B)(i) of the Act.
