
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart F - Training Services
##### ยง 618.620 Selection of training program.
###### Training types.

(b)Eligible trade-affected workers must be provided training using either one, or a combination of, the following methods:

(1) Work-based training, such as apprenticeships, OJT, or customized training, may be approved for AAWs. Customized training with the worker's current employer may only be approved for AAIWs if the training is for a position other than the AAIW's threatened position. See ยง 618.655(c)(2). AAIWs must not be approved for OJTs. See ยง 618.655(c)(1). The State must inform the worker of the potential negative effects of work-based training on TRA and the HCTC, if available; or

(2) Institutional training, including training at public area career and technical education schools, as well as community colleges, may be approved alone or in combination with work-based training. This also includes distance learning, including online training, where a worker may complete all or part of an educational or vocational program in a geographical location apart from the institution hosting the training program, and where the final certificate or degree conferred is equivalent in standard of achievement and content to the same program completed on campus or at another institutional training location.

(i) A provider of the distance learning must be based in the United States for training provided to be approved. In addition, the worker must be physically within the United States when participating in distance learning to remain eligible for benefits under the Act.

(ii) Distance learning is subject to all training approval criteria described in this subpart.

(iii) The State must establish and monitor the milestones of a distance-learning program based on the worker's IEP, as described in subpart C of this part, if available.

(iv) A worker who does not meet the requirements or milestones of a distance-learning program may be determined to have ceased participation in training, as described in ยง 618.780(b)(3)(ii).

(3) Higher education includes any training or coursework at an accredited institution, as described in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1002), including training or coursework for the purpose of obtaining a degree or certification, or for completing a degree or certification that the worker had begun previously at an accredited institution of higher education. Higher education may be approved alone or in combination with work-based training. The distance learning requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section also apply to this paragraph (b)(3).
