
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart F - Training Services
##### ยง 618.665 Amending approved training.
###### Criterion 1: A reasonable expectation of employment following completion of such training continues to exist.

(1)Given the labor market conditions expected to exist at the time of the completion of the training program, a reasonable expectation, fairly and objectively considered, exists that the trade-affected worker is likely to find employment, using the skills and education acquired while in training, upon completion of approved training. The labor market conditions considered must be limited to those in the worker's commuting area, or in the area where the worker intends to relocate.

(i) "A reasonable expectation of employment" does not require that employment opportunities for the worker be available, or offered, immediately upon the completion of the approved training.

(ii) The State must review the expected job market conditions using pertinent labor market data in the worker's case file to ensure it continues to apply to the amended training program and the worker's occupational goal as identified on the worker's IEP, if available, and in the worker's case file.

(iii) When a worker desires to relocate within the United States but outside the worker's present commuting area upon completion of training, the State must ensure the labor market information (described in ยง 618.610(c)(2)) supports the determination that a reasonable expectation of employment continues to exist within the area of the planned relocation. The labor market information must be in the area of planned relocation.

(iv) A reasonable expectation of employment may exist in a limited demand occupation for a single, trained worker in the worker's commuting area or in the area to which the worker desires to relocate. The State must determine that there continues to be a reasonable expectation that the worker can secure employment in the limited demand occupation.

(v) A State may approve an amended training program in an occupation if it finds that there is a reasonable expectation that the additional training will lead to self-employment in the occupation for which the worker requests training, and that such self-employment will provide the worker with wages or earnings at or near the worker's wages in adversely affected employment.

(vi) Amended training programs that consist of solely OJT or contain an OJT component are not approvable if they are not expected to lead to suitable employment, with the employer providing the OJT, in compliance with section 236(c)(1)(B)(i) of the Act.
