
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart G - Trade Readjustment Allowances
##### § 618.765 Qualifying requirements for, and timing and duration of, Completion Trade Readjustment Allowances.
###### Qualifying requirements for Completion TRA.

(a)An AAW is eligible to receive Completion TRA if such worker meets all qualifying requirements for receipt of Basic TRA in § 618.720 and Additional TRA in § 618.760, and if the eligibility criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are met for that week. The requirements in this paragraph (a) are applied at the time the State approves payment for a week of Completion TRA. The eligibility criteria are:

(1) Payment of Completion TRA is necessary for an AAW to complete the approved training described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The AAW is participating in approved training each week that leads to the completion of a degree or industry-recognized credential and the worker's training program will extend for a period longer than the periods during which Basic and Additional TRA are payable under §§ 618.755 (eligibility period for Basic TRA) and 618.760 (qualifying requirements for, timing and duration of, Additional TRA), and the requested weeks are necessary for the worker to complete training.

(3) The worker-

(i) Has substantially met the performance benchmarks in § 618.660 (training benchmarks) established as part of the approved training under subpart F of this part;

(ii) Is expected to continue to make progress toward the completion of the approved training; and

(iii) Will complete the approved training during the period of eligibility described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) If, during the period in which an AAW is eligible to receive Completion TRA, the worker ceases to meet any of the eligibility criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, no further Completion TRA is payable to such worker.
