
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart H - Administration by Applicable State Agencies
##### ยง 618.832 Overpayments; penalties for fraud.
###### Training, job search and relocation allowances, and RTAA.

(d)(1) If a trade-affected worker fails, with good cause, to complete training, a job search, or a relocation, any payment or portion of a payment made under this part to such person or individual properly and necessarily expended in attempting to complete such training, job search, or relocation is not an overpayment.

(2) If a trade-affected worker fails, without good cause, to complete training, a job search, or a relocation, then the portion of a payment for the noncompleted component of a benefit is an overpayment. Costs for the completed portions of the training program, job search, or relocation are not an overpayment.

(3) For purposes of this paragraph (d), good cause exists if the worker acted diligently yet was unable to complete training, a job search, or relocation because of exigent circumstances. The State must determine good cause on a worker-by-worker basis.

(4) An overpayment established under this paragraph (d) must be recovered or waived as provided in this section.

(5) For RTAA, an individual meets the "earns not more than $50,000 each year in wages from reemployment" requirement in section 246 of the Act for a given month if the monthly determination of annualized wages is accurate and complete at the time it is made. Payments derived from the annualized wage projection based on complete and accurate information at the time are valid payments that the individual was entitled to and are not overpayments.
