
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart H - Administration by Applicable State Agencies
##### ยง 618.860 General fiscal and administrative requirements and cost classification.
###### Uniform fiscal and administrative requirements.

(a)(1) Each State receiving funds allocated for the TAA Program from the Department as an agent of the United States, must administer the TAA Program in accordance with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200 and 2 CFR part 2900 and with the funding agreement.

(2) A State may expend funds awarded to it during a Federal fiscal year to carry out TAA Program activities under sections 235 through 238 of the Act during that Federal fiscal year and the succeeding 2 Federal fiscal years.

(3) Equipment, as described in 2 CFR 200.33 and computing devices, as described in 2 CFR 200.20, includes equipment acquired with TAA funds under both current and prior Agreements.

(4) The addition method, described at 2 CFR 200.307, must be used for all program income earned under TAA grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to such grant, the gross amount earned must be added to such grant. However, when these costs have not been charged to such grant, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under such grant.
