
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Subpart H - Administration by Applicable State Agencies
##### § 618.852 Recordkeeping and disclosure of information requirements.
###### Recordkeeping.

(a)(1) Each State must make and maintain such records pertaining to the administration of the Act as the Department requires and must make all such records available for inspection, examination, and audit by such Federal officials as the Department may designate or as may be required by law.

(2)(i) States must maintain records that contain any information that the Department determines to be appropriate in support of any reports that the Department may require, including those reports specified in §§ 618.860(f) (general fiscal and administrative requirements and cost classification) and 618.864(e) (TAA Program performance).

(ii) States must maintain records as required by 2 CFR 200.333 for 3 years, or as indicated at 2 CFR 200.333(a) through (f).

(3) States must comply with the records requirements established in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337.

(4) States must document that they provided or offered the employment and case management services described in subpart C of this part to all trade-affected workers, either in a paper-based or electronic case management system. States must make these systems available for review upon request by the Department. Additionally, the case management file of each participant must demonstrate that the State notified each worker of the training enrollment deadlines set forth in proposed § 618.725(a).
