
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 219 - EVIDENCE REQUIRED FOR PAYMENT
##### Subpart D - Other Evidence Requirements
###### ยง 219.51 Evidence to prove "living with".

The following evidence may be required:

(a) If the employee is alive, both the employee and his or her spouse must sign a statement that they are living together in the same household when the spouse applies for a spouse's annuity as a deemed spouse.

(b) If the employee is dead, the widow or widower must sign a statement showing whether he or she was living together in the same household with the employee when the employee died.

(c) If the employee and spouse, widow or widower were temporarily living apart, a signed statement is required explaining where each was living, how long the separation lasted, and the reason for separation. If more evidence is required to remove any reasonable doubt about the temporary nature of the separation, the Board may ask for sworn statements of other persons having personal knowledge of the facts or for other convincing evidence.

(d) If the employee and spouse, widow, or widower were not living in the same household, the Board may ask for evidence that the employee was contributing to or under court order to contribute to the support of his or her spouse, widow, or widower. Evidence of contributions or a certified copy of the order for support may be requested. The court order for support must be in effect on the day the spouse applies for a spouse's annuity or, if the employee is dead, the day of the employee's death. This type of evidence does not apply for purposes of establishing a deemed valid marriage. (See part 222 of this chapter.) A deemed spouse, widow, or widower must furnish evidence as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
