
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 618 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
#### Appendix C to Part 618 - Standard for Fraud and Overpayment Detection
##### Explanation:

It is not feasible to prescribe the extent to which the above activities are required; however, they should always be carried on to such an extent that they will show whether or not error or willful misrepresentation is increasing or decreasing, and will reveal problem areas. The extent and nature of the above activities should be varied according to the seriousness of the problem in the State. The responsible individual or unit should:

1. Check paid claims for overpayment and investigate for willful misrepresentation or, alternatively, advise and assist the operating units in the performance of such functions, or both;

2. Perform consultative services with respect to methods and procedures for the prevention and detection of fraud; and

3. Perform other services which are closely related to the above.

Although a State agency is expected to make a full-time assignment of responsibility to a unit or individual to carry on the functions described above, a small State agency might make these functions a part-time responsibility of one individual. In connection with the detection of overpayments, such a unit or individual might, for example:

(a) Investigate information on suspected benefit fraud received from any agency personnel, and from sources outside the agency, including anonymous complaints;

(b) Investigate information secured from comparisons of benefit payments with employment records to detect cases of concurrent working (whether in covered or noncovered work) and claiming of benefits (including benefit payments in which the agency acted as agent for another State).

The benefit fraud referred to herein may involve employers, agency employees, and witnesses, as well as claimants.

Comparisons of benefit payments with employment records are comonly made either by post-audit or by industry surveys. The so-called "post-audit" is a matching of central office wage-record files against benefit payments for the same period. "Industry surveys" or "mass audits" are done in some States by going directly to employers for pay-roll information to be checked against concurrent benefit lists. A plan of investigation based on a sample post-audit will be considered as partial fulfillment of the investigation program; it would need to be supplemented by other methods capable of detecting overpayments to persons who have moved into noncovered occupations or are claiming interstate benefits.
