
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 625 - DISASTER UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 625.2 Definitions.
##### Week of unemployment

(w)means-

(1) For an unemployed worker, any week during which the individual is totally, part-totally, or partially unemployed. A week of total unemployment is a week during which the individual performs no work and earns no wages, or has less than full-time work and earns wages not exceeding the minimum earnings allowance prescribed in the applicable State law. A week of part-total unemployment is a week of otherwise total unemployment during which the individual has odd jobs or subsidiary work and earns wages not exceeding the maximum earnings allowance prescribed in the applicable State law. A week of partial unemployment is a week during which the individual works less than regular, full-time hours for the individual's regular employer, as a direct result of the major disaster, and earns wages not exceeding the maximum earnings allowance prescribed by the applicable State law.

(2) For an unemployed self-employed individual, any week during which the individual is totally, part-totally, or partially unemployed. A week of total unemployment is a week during which the individual performs no services in self-employment or in an employer-employee relationship, or performs services less than full-time and earns wages not exceeding the minimum earnings allowance prescribed in the applicable State law. A week of part-total unemployment is a week of otherwise total unemployment during which the individual has odd jobs or subsidiary work and earns wages not exceeding the maximum earnings allowance prescribed in the applicable State law. A week of partial unemployment is a week during which the individual performs less than the customary full-time services in self-employment, as a direct result of the major disaster, and earns wages not exceeding the maximum earnings allowance prescribed by the applicable State law, or during which the only activities or services performed are for the sole purpose of enabling the individual to resume self-employment.

(3) If the week of unemployment for which an individual claims DUA is a week with respect to which the individual is reemployed in a suitable position or has commenced services in self-employment, that week shall be treated as a week of partial unemployment if the week qualifies as a week of partial unemployment as defined in this paragraph.
