
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 625 - DISASTER UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 625.10 Appeal and review.
##### Further review by the Assistant Secretary.

(d)(1) The Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training on his or her own motion may review any decision by a Regional Administrator issued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Notice of a motion for review by the Assistant Secretary shall be given to the applicant, the State agency of the applicable State, the appropriate Regional Administrator, and the Administrator, Office of Workforce Security.

(3) When the Regional Administrator and the State agency are notified of the Assistant Secretary's motion for review, they shall forward all records in the case to the Assistant Secretary.

(4) Review by the Assistant Secretary shall be solely on the record in the case, any other written contentions or evidence requested by the Assistant Secretary, and any further evidence or arguments offered by the individual, the State agency, the Regional Administrator, or the Administrator, Office of Workforce Security, which are mailed to the Assistant Secretary within 15 days after mailing the notice of motion for review.

(5) Upon review of a case under this paragraph, the Assistant Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the Regional Administrator, and may remand the case for further proceedings and decision in accordance with the Assistant Secretary's decision.

(6) The decision of the Assistant Secretary shall be made promptly, and notice thereof shall be sent to the applicant, the State agency, the Regional Administrator, and the Administrator, Office of Workforce Security.

(7) The decision of the Assistant Secretary shall be final and conclusive, and binding on all interested parties, and shall be a precedent applicable throughout the States.
