
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 625 - DISASTER UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 625.10 Appeal and review.
##### Review by Regional Administrator.

(c)(1) The appropriate Regional Administrator, Employment and Training Administration, upon request for review by an applicant or the State agency shall, or upon the Regional Administrator's own motion may, review a decision on appeal issued pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(2) Any request for review by an applicant or a State agency shall be filed, and any review on the Regional Administrator's own motion shall be undertaken, within 15 days after notice of the decision on appeal was delivered or mailed to the individual.

(3)(i) A request for review by an individual may be filed with the appropriate State agency, which shall forward the request to the appropriate Regional Administrator, Employment and Training Administration, or may be filed directly with the appropriate Regional Administrator.

(ii) A request for review by a State agency shall be filed with the appropriate Regional Administrator, and a copy shall be served on the individual by delivery to the individual personally or by mail to the individual's last known address.

(iii) When a Regional Administrator undertakes a review of a decision on the Regional Administrator's own motion, notice thereof shall be served promptly on the individual and the State agency.

(iv) Whenever review by a Regional Administrator is undertaken pursuant to an appeal or on the Regional Administrator's own motion, the State agency shall promptly forward to the Regional Administrator the entire record of the case.

(v) Where service on the individual is required by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, adequate proof of service shall be furnished for the record before the Regional Administrator, and be a condition of the Regional Administrator undertaking review pursuant to this paragraph.

(4) The decision of the Regional Administrator on review shall be rendered promptly, and not later than the earlier of-

(i) 45 days after the appeal is received or is undertaken by the Regional Administrator, or

(ii) 90 days from the date the individual's appeal from the determination or redetermination was received by the State agency.

(5) Notice of the Regional Administrator's decision shall be mailed promptly to the last known address of the individual, to the State agency of the applicable State, and to the Administrator, Office of Workforce Security. The decision of the Regional Administrator shall be the final decision under the Act and this part, unless there is further review by the Assistant Secretary as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
