
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 625 - DISASTER UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
#### ยง 625.10 Appeal and review.
##### States of the United States.

(a)(1) Any determination or redetermination made pursuant to ยง 625.9, by the State agency of a State (other than the State agency of the Territory of Guam, American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands) may be appealed by the applicant in accordance with the applicable State law to the first-stage administrative appellate authority in the same manner and to the same extent as a determination or redetermination of a right to regular compensation may be appealed under the applicable State law, except that the period for appealing shall be 60 days from the date the determination or redetermination is issued or mailed instead of the appeal period provided for in the applicable State law. Any decision on a DUA first-stage appeal must be made and issued within 30 days after receipt of the appeal by the State.

(2) Notice of the decision on appeal, and the reasons therefor, shall be given to the individual by delivering the notice to such individual personally or by mailing it to the individual's last known address, whichever is most expeditious. The decision shall contain information as to the individual's right to review of the decision by the appropriate Regional Administrator, Employment and Training Administration, if requested within 15 days after the decision was mailed or delivered in person to the individual. The notice will include the manner of requesting such review, and the complete address of the Regional Administrator. Notice of the decision on appeal shall be given also to the State agency (with the same notice of right to review) and to the appropriate Regional Administrator.
