
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 625 - DISASTER UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
#### Appendix B to Part 625 - Standard for Claim Determinations - Separation Information
##### Appeal rights.

1.The claimant must be given information with respect to his appeal rights.

(1) The following information shall be included in the notice of determination:

(a) A statement that he may appeal or, if the State law requires or permits a protest or redetermination before an appeal, that he may protest or request a redetermination.

(b) The period within which an appeal, protest, or request for redetermination must be filed. The number of days provided by statute must be shown as well as either the beginning date or ending date of the period. (It is recommended that the ending date of the appeal period be shown, as this is the more understandable of the alternatives.)

(2) The following information must be included either in the notice of determination or in separate informational material referred to in the notice:

(a) The manner in which the appeal, protest, or request for redetermination must be filed, e.g., by signed letter, written statement, or on a prescribed form, and the place or places to which the appeal, protest, or request for redetermination may be mailed or hand-delivered.

(b) An explanation of any circumstances (such as nonworkdays, good cause, etc.) which will extend the period for the appeal, protest, or request for redetermination beyond the date stated or identified in the notice of determination.

(c) That any further information claimant may need or desire can be obtained together with assistance in filing his appeal, protest, or request for redetermination from the local office.

If the information is given in separate material, the notice of determination would adequately refer to such material if it said, for example, "For other information about your (appeal), (protest), (redetermination) rights, see pages __ to __ of the ________ (name of pamphlet or booklet) heretofore furnished to you."
