
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 640 - STANDARD FOR BENEFIT PAYMENT PROMPTNESS - UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
#### § 640.8 Enforcement of the standard.
##### Action by the Department of Labor.

(a)When a State agency fails, for an extended period, to meet the standard set forth in § 640.4 or the criteria specified in § 640.5, or fails to show satisfactory improvement after having submitted a benefit payment performance plan of action, the Department of Labor shall pursue any of the following remedial steps that it deems necessary before considering application of the provisions of § 640.2:

(1) Initiate informal discussion with State agency officials pursuant to § 601.5(b) of this chapter.

(2) Conduct an evaluation of the State's benefit payment processes and analyze the reasons for the State's failure to meet the standard.

(3) Recommend specific actions for the State to take to improve its benefit payment performance.

(4) Request the State to submit a plan for complying with the standard by a prescribed date.

(5) Initiate special reporting requirements for a specified period of time.

(6) Consult with the Governor of the State regarding the consequences of the State's noncompliance with the standard.

(7) Propose to the Governor of the State and on an agreed upon basis arrange for the use of expert Federal staff to furnish technical assistance to the State agency with respect to its payment operations.
