
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart C - Disability Under the Railroad Retirement Act for Work in an Employee's Regular Railroad Occupation
###### ยง 220.10 Disability for work in an employee's regular railroad occupation.

(a) In order to receive an occupational disability annuity an eligible employee must be found by the Board to be disabled for work in his or her regular railroad occupation because of a permanent physical or mental impairment. In this subpart the Board describes in general terms how it evaluates a claim for an occupational disability annuity. In accordance with section 2(a)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act this subpart was developed with the cooperation of employers and employees. This subpart is supplemented by an Occupational Disability Claims Manual (Manual)which was also developed with the cooperation of employers and employees.

(b) In accordance with section 2(a)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act, the Board shall select two physicians, one from recommendations made by representatives of employers and one from recommendations made by representatives of employees. These individuals shall comprise the Occupational Disability Advisory Committee (Committee). This Committee shall periodically review, as necessary, this subpart and the Manual and make recommendations to the Board with respect to amendments to this subpart or to the Manual. The Board shall confer with the Committee before it amends either this subpart or the Manual.
