
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 641 - PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE SENIOR COMMUNITY SERVICE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Coordination With the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
##### ยง 641.220 Does title I of WIOA require the SCSEP to use OAA funds for individuals who are not eligible for SCSEP services or for services that are not authorized under the OAA?
###### See

No, SCSEP requirements continue to apply. OAA title V resources may not be used to serve individuals who are not SCSEP-eligible. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act creates a seamless service delivery system for individuals seeking workforce development services by linking the One-Stop partners in the One-Stop delivery system. Although the overall effect is to provide universal access to career services, SCSEP resources may only be used to provide services that are authorized and provided under the SCSEP to eligible individuals. Note, however, that one allowable SCSEP cost is a SCSEP project's proportionate share of One-Stop costs.ยง 641.850(d). Title V funds can be used to pay wages to SCSEP participants receiving career and training services under title I of WIOA provided that the SCSEP participants have each received a community service assignment. All other individuals who are in need of the services provided under the SCSEP, but who do not meet the eligibility criteria to enroll in the SCSEP, should be referred to or enrolled in WIOA or other appropriate partner programs. WIOA sec. 121(b)(1). These arrangements should be negotiated in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), which is an agreement developed and executed between the Local Workforce Development Board, with the agreement of the chief local elected official, and the One-Stop partners relating to the operation of the One-Stop delivery system in the local area. The MOU is further described in the WIOA regulations at 20 CFR 678.500 through 678.510.
