
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart C - Disability Under the Railroad Retirement Act for Work in an Employee's Regular Railroad Occupation
###### ยง 220.13 Establishment of permanent disability for work in regular railroad occupation.

The Board will presume that a claimant who is not allowed to continue working for medical reasons by his employer has been found, under standards contained in this subpart, disabled unless the Board finds that no person could reasonably conclude on the basis of evidence presented that the claimant can no longer perform his or her regular railroad occupation for medical reasons. (See ยง 220.21 if the claimant is not currently disabled, but was previously occupationally disabled for a specified period of time in the past). The Board uses the following evaluation process in determining disability for work in the regular occupation:

(a) The Board evaluates the employee's medically documented physical and mental impairment(s) to determine if the employee is medically disabled. In order to be found medically disabled, the employee's impairments must be severe enough to prevent a person from doing any substantial gainful activity. The Board makes this determination based on the guidelines set out in ยง 220.100(b)(3). If the Board finds that an employee has an impairment which is medically disabling, it will find the employee disabled for work in his or her regular occupation without considering the duties of his or her regular occupation.

(b) If the Board finds that the claimant does not have an impairment described in paragraph (a) of this section, it will-

(1) Determine the employee's regular railroad occupation, as defined in ยง 220.11, based upon the employee's own description of his or her job;

(2) Evaluate whether the claimant is disabled as follows:

(i) The Board first determines whether the employee's regular railroad occupation is an occupation covered under appendix 3 of this part. Second, the Board will determine whether the employee's claimed impairment(s) is covered under appendix 3 of this part. If claimant's regular railroad occupation or impairment(s) is not covered under appendix 3 of this part, then the Board will determine if the employee is disabled under ICE as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(ii)(A) If the Board determines that, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, appendix 3 of this part applies, then the Board will confirm the existence of the employee's impairment(s) using-
