
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 652 - ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONING OF STATE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart A - Employment Service Operations
##### ยง 652.8 Administrative provisions.
###### Nondiscrimination and affirmative action requirements.

(j)States must:

(1) Assure that no individual be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, subjected to discrimination under, or denied employment in the administration or in connection with any services or activities authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act in violation of any applicable nondiscrimination law. All complaints alleging discrimination must be filed and processed according to the procedures in the applicable Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations.

(2) Assure that discriminatory job orders will not be accepted, except where the stated requirement is a bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ). See, generally, 42 U.S.C. 2000(e)-2(e), 29 CFR parts 1604, 1606, and 1625.

(3) Assure that employers' valid affirmative action requests will be accepted and a significant number of qualified applicants from the target group(s) will be included to enable the employer to meet its affirmative action obligations.

(4) Assure that employment testing programs will comply with 41 CFR part 60-3 and 29 CFR part 32 and 29 CFR 1627.3(b)(1)(iv).

(5) Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements and procedures, including complaint processing and compliance reviews, will be governed by the applicable Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations.
