
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 652 - ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONING OF STATE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart C - Wagner-Peyser Act Services in a One-Stop Delivery System Environment
##### ยง 652.209 What are the requirements under the Wagner-Peyser Act for providing reemployment services and other activities to referred unemployment insurance claimants?

(a) In accordance with sec. 3(c)(3) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, the SWA, as part of the one-stop delivery system, must provide reemployment services to UI claimants for whom such services are required as a condition for receipt of UI benefits. Services must be appropriate to the needs of UI claimants who are referred to reemployment services under any Federal or State UI law.

(b) The SWA also must provide other activities, including:

(1) Coordination of labor exchange services with the provision of UI eligibility services as required by sec. 5(b)(2) of the Wagner-Peyser Act;

(2) Administration of the work test, conducting eligibility assessments, and registering UI claimants for employment services in accordance with a State's unemployment compensation law, and provision of job finding and placement services as required by sec. 3(c)(3) and described in sec. 7(a)(3)(F) of the Wagner-Peyser Act; and

(3) Referring UI claimants to, and providing application assistance for, training and education resources and programs, including Federal Pell grants and other student assistance under title IV of the Higher Education Act, the Montgomery GI Bill, Post-9/11 GI Bill, and other Veterans Educational Assistance, training provided for youth, and adult and dislocated workers, as well as other employment training programs under WIOA, and for Vocational Rehabilitation Services under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
