
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 652 - ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONING OF STATE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart D - Workforce and Labor Market Information
##### ยง 652.300 What role does the Secretary of Labor have concerning the Workforce and Labor Market Information System?

(a) The Secretary of Labor must oversee the development, maintenance, and continuous improvement of the workforce and labor market information system defined in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and ยง 651.10 of this chapter. The Department also will identify parameters of continuous improvement. The Secretary will consult with the Workforce Information Advisory Council on these matters and consider the council's recommendations.

(b) With respect to data collection, analysis, and dissemination of workforce and labor market information as defined in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and ยง 651.10 of this chapter, the Secretary must:

(1) Assign responsibilities within the Department of Labor for elements of the workforce and labor market information system described in sec. 15(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act to ensure that the statistical and administrative data collected are consistent with appropriate Bureau of Labor Statistics standards and definitions, and that the information is accessible and understandable to users of such data;

(2) Actively seek the cooperation of heads of other Federal agencies to establish and maintain mechanisms for ensuring complementarity and non-duplication in the development and operation of statistical and administrative data collection activities;

(3) Solicit, receive, and evaluate the recommendations of the Workforce Information Advisory Council established by Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15(d);

(4) Eliminate gaps and duplication in statistical undertakings;

(5) Through the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Employment and Training Administration, and in collaboration with States, develop and maintain the elements of the workforce and labor market information system, including the development of consistent procedures and definitions for use by States in collecting and reporting the workforce and labor market information data described in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and defined in ยง 651.10 of this chapter;

(6) Establish procedures for the system to ensure that the data and information are timely, and paperwork and reporting for the system are reduced to a minimum; and

(7) Prepare a 2-year plan for the workforce and labor market information system, as described in the Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15(c), as amended by WIOA sec. 308(d).
