
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 653 - SERVICES OF THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart B - Services for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers (MSFWs)
##### ยง 653.107 Outreach and Agricultural Outreach Plan.
###### State Workforce Agency (SWA) outreach responsibilities.

(a)(1) Each SWA must provide an adequate number of outreach staff to conduct MSFW outreach in their service areas. SWA Administrators must ensure State Monitor Advocates (SMAs) and outreach staff coordinate their outreach efforts with WIOA title I sec. 167 grantees as well as with public and private community service agencies and MSFW groups.

(2) As part of their outreach, SWAs must ensure outreach staff:

(i) Communicate the full range of workforce development services to MSFWs.

(ii) Conduct thorough outreach efforts with extensive follow-up activities in supply States.

(3) For purposes of providing and assigning outreach staff to conduct outreach duties, and to facilitate the delivery of employment services tailored to the special needs of MSFWs, SWAs must seek qualified candidates who speak the language of a significant proportion of the State MSFW population; and

(i) Who are from MSFW backgrounds; or

(ii) Who have substantial work experience in farmworker activities.

(4) In the 20 States with the highest estimated year-round MSFW activity, as identified in guidance issued by the Secretary, there must be full-time, year-round outreach staff to conduct outreach duties. For the remainder of the States, there must be year-round part-time outreach staff, and during periods of the highest MSFW activity, there must be full-time outreach staff. All outreach staff must be multilingual, if warranted by the characteristics of the MSFW population in the State, and must spend a majority of their time in the field.

(5) The SWA must publicize the availability of employment services through such means as newspaper and electronic media publicity. Contacts with public and private community agencies, employers and/or employer organizations, and MSFW groups also must be utilized to facilitate the widest possible distribution of information concerning employment services.

(6) SWAs must ensure each outreach staff member is provided with an identification card or other materials identifying them as representatives of the State.
