
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 653 - SERVICES OF THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart B - Services for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers (MSFWs)
##### ยง 653.107 Outreach and Agricultural Outreach Plan.
###### State Agricultural Outreach Plan (AOP).

(d)(1) Each SWA must develop an AOP every 4 years as part of the Unified or Combined State Plans required under sec. 102 or 103 of WIOA.

(2) The AOP must:

(i) Provide an assessment of the unique needs of MSFWs in the area based on past and projected agricultural and MSFW activity in the State;

(ii) Provide an assessment of available resources for outreach;

(iii) Describe the SWA's proposed outreach activities including strategies on how to contact MSFWs who are not being reached by the normal intake activities conducted by the one-stop center;

(iv) Describe the activities planned for providing the full range of employment and training services to the agricultural community, including both MSFWs and agricultural employers, through the one-stop centers; and

(v) Provide an assurance that the SWA is complying with the requirements under ยง 653.111 if the State has significant MSFW one-stop centers.

(3) In developing the AOP, the SWA must solicit information and suggestions from WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) grantees, other appropriate MSFW groups, public agencies, agricultural employer organizations, and other interested organizations. In addition, at least 45 calendar days before submitting its final AOP to the Department, the SWA must provide the proposed AOP to NFJP grantees, public agencies, agricultural employer organizations, and other organizations expressing an interest and allow at least 30 calendar days for review and comment. The SWA must:

(i) Consider any comments received in formulating its final proposed AOP.

(ii) Inform all commenting parties in writing whether their comments have been incorporated and, if not, the reasons therefore.

(iii) Transmit the comments and recommendations received and its responses to the Department with the submission of the AOP. (If the comments are received after the submission of the AOP, they may be sent separately to the Department.)

(4) The AOP must be submitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and planning guidance issued by the Department.

(5) The Annual Summaries required at ยง 653.108(s) must update the Department on the SWA's progress toward meetings its goals set forth in the AOP.
