
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 653 - SERVICES OF THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart B - Services for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers (MSFWs)
##### ยง 653.109 Data collection and performance accountability measures.

SWAs must:

(a) Collect career service indicator data for the career services specified in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii).

(b) Collect data, in accordance with applicable ETA Reports and Guidance, on:

(1) The number of MSFWs contacted through outreach activities;

(2) The number of MSFWs and non-MSFWs registered for career services;

(3) The number of MSFWs referred to and placed in agricultural jobs;

(4) The number of MSFWs referred to and placed in non-agricultural jobs;

(5) The percentage of MSFW program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;

(6) The median earnings of MSFW program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;

(7) The percentage of MSFW program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;

(8) The number of MSFWs served who identified themselves as male, female, Hispanic or Latino, Black or African-American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, or White;

(9) Agricultural clearance orders (including field checks), MSFW complaints and apparent violations, and monitoring activities; and

(10) Any other data required by the Department.

(c) Provide necessary training to ES staff on techniques for accurately reporting data.

(d) Collect and submit data on MSFWs required by the Unified or Combined State Plan, as directed by the Department.

(e) Periodically verify data required to be collected under this section, take necessary steps to ensure its validity, and submit the data for verification to the Department, as directed by the Department.

(f) Submit additional reports to the Department as directed.

(g) Meet equity indicators that address ES controllable services and include, at a minimum, individuals referred to a job, receiving job development, and referred to supportive or career services.

(h) Meet minimum levels of service in significant MSFW States. That is, only significant MSFW SWAs will be required to meet minimum levels of service to MSFWs. Minimum level of service indicators must include, at a minimum, individuals placed in a job, individuals placed long-term (150 days or more) in a non-agricultural job, a review of significant MSFW ES offices, field checks conducted, outreach contacts per week, and processing of complaints. The determination of the minimum service levels required of significant MSFW States for each year must be based on the following:

(1) Past SWA performance in serving MSFWs, as reflected in on-site reviews and data collected under paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The need for services to MSFWs in the upcoming year, comparing prior and projected levels of MSFW activity.
