
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 653 - SERVICES OF THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart B - Services for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers (MSFWs)
##### § 653.108 State Workforce Agency and State Monitor Advocate responsibilities.

(a) State Administrators must ensure their SWAs monitor their own compliance with ES regulations in serving MSFWs on an ongoing basis. The State Administrator has overall responsibility for SWA self-monitoring.

(b) The State Administrator must appoint an SMA who must be a SWA official. The State Administrator must inform farmworker organizations and other organizations with expertise concerning MSFWs of the opening and encourage them to refer qualified applicants to apply. Among qualified candidates, the SWAs must seek persons:

(1) Who are from MSFW backgrounds; or

(2) Who speak the language of a significant proportion of the State MSFW population; or

(3) Who have substantial work experience in farmworker activities.

(c) The SMA must have direct, personal access, when necessary, to the State Administrator.

(d) The SMA must have ES staff necessary to fulfill effectively all of the duties set forth in this subpart. The number of ES staff positions must be determined by reference to the number of MSFWs in the State, as measured at the time of the peak MSFW population, and the need for monitoring activity in the State. The SMA must devote full time to Monitor Advocate functions. Any State that proposes less than full-time dedication must demonstrate to its Regional Administrator that the SMA function can be effectively performed with part-time staffing.

(e) All SMAs and their staff must attend, within the first 3 months of their tenure, a training session conducted by the Regional Monitor Advocate. They also must attend whatever additional training sessions are required by the Regional or National Monitor Advocate.

(f) The SMA must provide any relevant documentation requested from the SWA by the Regional Monitor Advocate or the National Monitor Advocate.

(g) The SMA must:

(1) Conduct an ongoing review of the delivery of services and protections afforded by the ES regulations to MSFWs by the SWA and ES offices (including efforts to provide ES staff in accordance with § 653.111, and the appropriateness of informal complaint and apparent violation resolutions as documented in the complaint logs). The SMA, without delay, must advise the SWA and local offices of problems, deficiencies, or improper practices in the delivery of services and protections afforded by these regulations and may request a corrective action plan to address these deficiencies. The SMA must advise the SWA on means to improve the delivery of services.

(2) Participate in on-site reviews on a regular basis, using the following procedures:

(i) Before beginning an onsite review, the SMA or review staff must study:

(A) Program performance data;

(B) Reports of previous reviews;

(C) Corrective action plans developed as a result of previous reviews;

(D) Complaint logs including logs documenting the informal resolution of complaints and apparent violations; and

(E) Complaints elevated from the office or concerning the office.

(ii) Ensure that the onsite review format, developed by ETA, is used as a guideline for onsite reviews.

(iii) Upon completion of an onsite monitoring review, the SMA must hold one or more wrap-up sessions with the ES office manager and staff to discuss any findings and offer initial recommendations and appropriate technical assistance.

(iv) After each review the SMA must conduct an in-depth analysis of the review data. The conclusions and recommendations of the SMA must be put in writing and must be sent to the State Administrator, to the official of the SWA with authority over the ES office, and other appropriate SWA officials.

(v) If the review results in any findings of noncompliance with the regulations under this chapter, the ES office manager must develop and propose a written corrective action plan. The plan must be approved or revised by SWA officials and the SMA. The plan must include actions required to correct or to take major steps to correct any compliance issues within 30 business days, and if the plan allows for more than 30 business days for full compliance, the length of, and the reasons for, the extended period must be specifically stated. SWAs are responsible for assuring and documenting that the ES office is in compliance within the time period designated in the plan.

(vi) SWAs must submit to the appropriate ETA regional office copies of the onsite review reports and corrective action plans for ES offices.

(vii) The SMA may recommend that the review described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section be delegated to a SWA official, if and when the State Administrator finds such delegation necessary. In such event, the SMA is responsible for and must approve the written report of the review.

(3) Ensure all significant MSFW one-stop centers not reviewed onsite by Federal staff are reviewed at least once per year by a SWA official, and that, if necessary, those ES offices in which significant problems are revealed by required reports, management information, the Complaint System, or other means are reviewed as soon as possible.

(4) Review and approve the SWA's Agricultural Outreach Plan (AOP).

(5) On a random basis, review outreach workers' daily logs and other reports including those showing or reflecting the workers' activities.

(6) Write and submit annual summaries to the State Administrator with a copy to the Regional Administrator as described in paragraph (s) of this section.

(h) The SMA must participate in Federal reviews conducted pursuant to part 658, subpart G, of this chapter.

(i) At the discretion of the State Administrator, the SMA may be assigned the responsibility as the Complaint System Representative. The SMA must participate in and monitor the performance of the Complaint System, as set forth at §§ 658.400 and 658.401 of this chapter. The SMA must review the ES office's informal resolution of complaints relating to MSFWs and must ensure that the ES office manager transmits copies of the Complaint System logs pursuant to part 658, subpart E, of this chapter to the SWA.

(j) The SMA must serve as an advocate to improve services for MSFWs.

(k) The SMA must establish an ongoing liaison with WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) grantees and other organizations serving farmworkers, employers, and employer organizations in the State.

(l) The SMA must meet (either in person or by alternative means), at minimum, quarterly, with representatives of the organizations pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section, to receive complaints, assist in referrals of alleged violations to enforcement agencies, receive input on improving coordination with ES offices or improving the coordination of services to MSFWs. To foster such collaboration, the SMAs must establish Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the NFJP grantees and may establish MOUs with other organizations serving farm workers as appropriate.

(m) The SMA must conduct frequent field visits to the working, living, and gathering areas of MSFWs, and must discuss employment services and other employment-related programs with MSFWs, crew leaders, and employers. Records must be kept of each such field visit.

(n) The SMA must participate in the appropriate regional public meeting(s) held by the Department of Labor Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee, other Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Wage and Hour Division task forces, and other committees as appropriate.

(o) The SMA must ensure that outreach efforts in all significant MSFW one-stop centers are reviewed at least yearly. This review will include accompanying at least one outreach staff from each significant MSFW one-stop center on field visits to MSFWs' working, living, and/or gathering areas. The SMA must review findings from these reviews with the ES office managers.

(p) The SMA must review on at least a quarterly basis all statistical and other MSFW-related data reported by ES offices in order:
