
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 654 - SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Housing for Farmworkers
##### Housing Standards
###### ยง 654.411 Toilets.

(a) Toilets must be constructed, located, and maintained so as to prevent any nuisance or public health hazard.

(b) Water closets or privy seats for each sex must be in the ratio of not less than one such unit for each 15 occupants, with a minimum of one unit for each sex in common use facilities.

(c) Urinals, constructed of nonabsorbent materials, may be substituted for men's toilet seats on the basis of one urinal or 24 inches of trough-type urinal for one toilet seat up to a maximum of one-third of the required toilet seats.

(d) Except in individual family units, separate toilet accommodations for men and women must be provided. If toilet facilities for men and women are in the same building, they must be separated by a solid wall from floor to roof or ceiling. Toilets must be distinctly marked "men" and "women" in English and in the native language of the persons expected to occupy the housing.

(e) Where common use toilet facilities are provided, an adequate and accessible supply of toilet tissue, with holders, must be furnished.

(f) Common use toilets and privies must be well lighted and ventilated and must be clean and sanitary.

(g) Toilet facilities must be located within 200 feet of each living unit.

(h) Privies may not be located closer than 50 feet from any living unit or any facility where food is prepared or served.

(i) Privy structures and pits must be fly-tight. Privy pits must have adequate capacity for the required seats.
