
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 654 - SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Housing for Farmworkers
##### Housing Standards
###### ยง 654.412 Bathing, laundry, and hand washing.

(a) Bathing and hand washing facilities, supplied with hot and cold water under pressure, must be provided for the use of all occupants. These facilities must be clean and sanitary and located within 200 feet of each living unit.

(b) There must be a minimum of 1 showerhead per 15 persons. Showerheads must be spaced at least 3 feet apart, with a minimum of 9 square feet of floor space per unit. Adequate, dry dressing space must be provided in common use facilities. Shower floors must be constructed of nonabsorbent nonskid materials and sloped to properly constructed floor drains. Except in individual family units, separate shower facilities must be provided each sex. When common use shower facilities for both sexes are in the same building they must be separated by a solid nonabsorbent wall extending from the floor to ceiling, or roof, and must be plainly designated "men" or "women" in English and in the native language of the persons expected to occupy the housing.

(c) Lavatories or equivalent units must be provided in a ratio of 1 per 15 persons.

(d) Laundry facilities, supplied with hot and cold water under pressure, must be provided for the use of all occupants. Laundry trays or tubs must be provided in the ratio of 1 per 25 persons. Mechanical washers may be provided in the ratio of 1 per 50 persons in lieu of laundry trays, although a minimum of 1 laundry tray per 100 persons must be provided in addition to the mechanical washers.
