
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 654 - SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
#### Subpart E - Housing for Farmworkers
##### Housing Standards
###### ยง 654.413 Cooking and eating facilities.

(a) When workers or their families are permitted or required to cook in their individual unit, a space must be provided and equipped for cooking and eating. Such space must be provided with:

(1) A cookstove or hot plate with a minimum of two burners;

(2) Adequate food storage shelves and a counter for food preparation;

(3) Provisions for mechanical refrigeration of food at a temperature of not more than 45 &#xB0;F;

(4) A table and chairs or equivalent seating and eating arrangements, all commensurate with the capacity of the unit; and

(5) Adequate lighting and ventilation.

(b) When workers or their families are permitted or required to cook and eat in a common facility, a room or building separate from the sleeping facilities must be provided for cooking and eating. Such room or building must be provided with:

(1) Stoves or hot plates, with a minimum equivalent of 2 burners, in a ratio of 1 stove or hot plate to 10 persons, or 1 stove or hot plate to 2 families;

(2) Adequate food storage shelves and a counter for food preparation;

(3) Mechanical refrigeration for food at a temperature of not more than 45 &#xB0;F;

(4) Tables and chairs or equivalent seating adequate for the intended use of the facility;

(5) Adequate sinks with hot and cold water under pressure;

(6) Adequate lighting and ventilation; and

(7) Floors must be of nonabsorbent, easily cleaned materials.

(c) When central mess facilities are provided, the kitchen and mess hall must be in proper proportion to the capacity of the housing and must be separate from the sleeping quarters. The physical facilities, equipment, and operation must be in accordance with provisions of applicable State codes.

(d) Wall surface adjacent to all food preparation and cooking areas must be of nonabsorbent, easily cleaned material. In addition, the wall surface adjacent to cooking areas must be of fire-resistant material.
