
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart G - Consultative Examinations
###### ยง 220.53 When the Board will purchase a consultative examination and how it will be used.
####### Situations requiring a consultative examination.

(b)A consultative examination may be purchased when the evidence as a whole, both medical and non-medical, is not sufficient to support a decision on the claim. In addition, other situations, such as one or more of the following, will normally require a consultative examination (these situations are not all-inclusive):

(1) The specific additional evidence needed for adjudication has been pinpointed and high probability exists for obtaining it through purchase.

(2) The additional evidence needed is not contained in the records of the claimant's treating sources.

(3) Evidence that may be needed from the claimant's treating or other medical sources cannot be obtained for reasons beyond his or her control, such as death or noncooperation of the medical source.

(4) Highly technical or specialized medical evidence which is needed is not available from the claimant's treating sources.

(5) A conflict, inconsistency, ambiguity or insufficiency in the evidence must be resolved.

(6) There is an indication of a change in the claimant's condition that is likely to affect his or her ability to function, but current severity is not documented.

(7) Information provided by any source appears not to be supported by objective evidence.
