
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart G - Consultative Examinations
###### ยง 220.56 Securing medical evidence at the hearings officer hearing level.

(a) Where there is a conflict in the medical evidence at the hearing level of review before a hearings officer, the hearings officer will try to resolve it by comparing the persuasiveness and value of the conflicting evidence. The hearings officer's reasoning will be explained in the decision rationale. Where such resolution is not possible, the hearings officer will secure additional medical evidence (e.g., clinical findings, laboratory test, diagnosis, prognosis, etc.) to resolve the conflict. Even in the absence of a conflict, the hearings officer will also secure additional medical evidence when the file does not contain findings, laboratory tests, a diagnosis, or a prognosis necessary for a decision.

(b) Before requesting a consultative examination, the hearings officer will ascertain whether the information is available as a result of a recent examination by any of the claimant's medical sources. If it is, the hearings officer will request the evidence from that medical practitioner. If contact with the medical source is not productive for any reason, or if there is no recent examination by a medical source, the hearings officer will obtain a consultative examination.
