
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart G - Consultative Examinations
###### ยง 220.61 Informing the examining physician or psychologist of examination scheduling, report content and signature requirements.
####### Report content.

(b)The reported results of the claimant's medical history, examination, pertinent requested laboratory findings, discussions and conclusions must conform to accepted professional standards and practices in the medical field for a complete and competent examination. The facts in a particular case and the information and findings already reported in the medical and other evidence of record will dictate the extent of detail needed in the consultative examination report for that case. Thus, the detail and format for reporting the results of a purchased examination will vary depending upon the type of examination or testing requested. The reporting of information will differ from one type of examination to another when the requested examination relates to the performance of tests such as ventilatory function tests, treadmill exercise tests, or audiological tests. The medical report must be complete enough to help the Board determine the nature, severity, duration of the impairment, and residual functional capacity. Pertinent points in the claimant's medical history, such as a description of chest pain, will reflect the claimant's statements of his or her symptoms, not simply the physician's or psychologist's statements or conclusions. The examining physician's or psychologist's report of the consultative examination will include the objective medical facts.
