
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart G - Consultative Examinations
###### ยง 220.62 Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.

(a) The Board will review the report of the consultative examination to determine whether the specific information requested has been furnished. The Board will consider these factors in reviewing the report:

(1) Whether the report provides evidence which serves as an adequate basis for decision-making in terms of the impairment it assesses.

(2) Whether the report is internally consistent. Whether all the diseases, impairments and complaints described in the history are adequately assessed and reported in the physical findings. Whether the conclusions correlate the findings from the claimant's medical history, physical examination and laboratory tests and explain all abnormalities.

(3) Whether the report is consistent with the other information available to the Board within the specialty of the examination requested. Whether the report fails to mention an important or relevant complaint within the speciality that is noted on other evidence in the file (e.g., blindness in one eye, amputations, flail limbs or claw hands, etc.).

(4) Whether the report is properly signed.

(b) If the report is inadequate or incomplete, the Board will contact the examining consultative physician or psychologist, give an explanation of the Board's evidentiary needs, and ask that the physician or psychologist furnish the missing information or prepare a revised report.

(c) Where the examination discloses new diagnostic information or test results which are significant to the claimant's treatment, the Board will consider referral of the consultative examination report to the claimant's treating physician or psychologist.

(d) The Board will take steps to ensure that consultative examinations are scheduled only with medical sources who have the equipment required to provide an adequate assessment and record of the level of severity of the claimant's alleged impairments.
