
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart H - Evaluation of Disability
###### ยง 220.101 Evaluation of mental impairments.
####### Use of the procedure to record pertinent findings and rate the degree of functional loss.

(b)(1) This procedure requires the Board to record the pertinent signs, symptoms, findings, functional limitations, and effects of treatment contained in the claimant's case record. This will assist the Board in determining if a mental impairment(s) exists. Whether or not a mental impairment(s) exists is decided in the same way the question of a physical impairment is decided, i.e., the evidence must be carefully reviewed and conclusions supported by it. The mental status examination and psychiatric history will ordinarily provide the needed information. (See ยง 220.27 for further information about what is needed to show an impairment.)

(2) If the Board determines that a mental impairment(s) exists, this procedure then requires the Board to indicate whether certain medical findings which have been found especially relevant to the ability to work are present or absent.

(3) The procedure then requires the Board to rate the degree of functional loss resulting from the impairment(s). Four areas of function considered by the Board as essential to work have been identified, and the degree of functional loss in those areas must be rated on a scale that ranges from no limitation to a level of severity which is incompatible with the ability to perform those work-related functions.
