
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart H - Evaluation of Disability
###### ยง 220.101 Evaluation of mental impairments.
####### Use of the procedure to evaluate mental impairments.

(c)Following the rating of the degree of functional loss resulting from the impairment(s), the Board then determines the severity of the mental impairment(s).

(1) If the four areas considered by the Board as essential to work have been rated to indicate a degree of limitation as "none" or "slight" in the first and second area, "never" or "seldom" in the third area, and "never" in the fourth area, the Board can generally conclude that the impairment(s) is not severe, unless the evidence otherwise indicates that there is significant limitation of the claimant's mental ability to do basic work activities (see ยง 220.102).

(2) If the claimant's mental impairment(s) is severe, the Board must then determine if it is medically disabling using the Board's prior conclusions based on this procedure (i.e., the presence of certain medical findings considered by the Board as especially relevant to a claimant's ability to work and the Board's rating of functional loss resulting from the mental impairment(s)).

(3) If the claimant has a severe impairment(s), but the impairment(s) is not medically disabling, the Board will then do a residual functional capacity assessment for those claimants (employees, widow(er)s, and children) whose applications are based on disability for any regular employment under the Railroad Retirement Act.

(4) At all adjudicative levels, the Board will, in each case, incorporate the pertinent findings and conclusions based on this procedure in its decision rationale. The Board's rationale must show the significant history, including examination, laboratory findings, and functional limitations that the Board considered in reaching conclusions about the severity of the mental impairment(s).
