
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart I - Medical Considerations
###### § 220.114 Evaluation of symptoms, including pain.
####### General.

(a)In determining whether the claimant is disabled, the Board considers all of the claimant's symptoms, including pain, and the extent to which the claimant's symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence. By objective medical evidence, the Board means medical signs and laboratory findings as defined in §§ 220.113(b) and (c) of this part. By other evidence, the Board means the kinds of evidence described in §§ 220.45 and 220.46 of this part. These include statements or reports from the claimant, the claimant's treating or examining physician or psychologist, and others about the claimant's medical history, diagnosis, prescribed treatment, daily activities, efforts to work, and any other evidence showing how the claimant's impairment(s) and any related symptoms affect the claimant's ability to work. The Board will consider all of the claimant's statements about his or her symptoms, such as pain, and any description by the claimant, the claimant's physician, or psychologist, or other persons about how the symptoms affect the claimant's activities of daily living and ability to work. However, statements alone about the claimant's pain or other symptoms will not establish that the claimant is disabled; there must be medical signs and laboratory findings which show that the claimant has a medical impairment(s) which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged and which, when considered with all of the other evidence (including statements about the intensity and persistence of the claimant's pain or other symptoms which may reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings), would lead to a conclusion that the claimant is disabled. In evaluating the intensity and persistence of the claimant's symptoms, including pain, the Board will consider all of the available evidence, including the claimant's medical history, the medical signs and laboratory findings and statements about how the claimant's symptoms affect the claimant. (Section 220.112(b) of this part explains how the Board considers opinions of the claimant's treating source and other medical opinions on the existence and severity of the claimant's symptoms, such as pain.) The Board will then determine the extent to which the claimant's alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings and other evidence to decide how the claimant's symptoms affect the claimant's ability to work.
