
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart J - Residual Functional Capacity
###### § 220.120 The claimant's residual functional capacity.
####### General.

(a)The claimant's impairment(s), and any related symptoms, such as pain, may cause physical and mental limitations that affect what the claimant can do in a work setting. The claimant's residual functional capacity is what the claimant can still do despite the claimant's limitations. If the claimant has more than one impairment, the Board will consider all of the claimant's impairment(s) of which the Board is aware. The Board will consider the claimant's ability to meet certain demands of jobs, such as physical demands, mental demands, sensory requirements, and other functions, as described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Residual functional capacity is an assessment based upon all of the relevant evidence. It may include descriptions (even the claimant's own) of limitations that go beyond the symptoms, such as pain, that are important in the diagnosis and treatment of the claimant's medical condition. Observations by the claimant's treating or examining physicians or psychologists, the claimant's family, neighbors, friends, or other persons, of the claimant's limitations, in addition to those observations usually made during formal medical examinations, may also be used. These descriptions and observations, when used, must be considered along with the claimant's medical records to enable us to decide to what extent the claimant's impairment(s) keeps the claimant from performing particular work activities. This assessment of the claimant's remaining capacity for work is not a decision on whether the claimant is disabled, but is used as the basis for determining the particular types of work the claimant may be able to do despite the claimant's impairment(s). Then, using the guidelines in §§ 220.125 and 220.134 of this part the claimant's vocational background is considered along with the claimant's residual functional capacity in arriving at a disability determination or decision. In deciding whether the claimant's disability continues or ends, the residual functional capacity assessment may also be used to determine whether any medical improvement the claimant has experienced is related to the claimant's ability to work as discussed in § 220.178 of this part.
