
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 655 - TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN WORKERS IN THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart G - Enforcement of the Limitations Imposed on Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports
##### ยง 655.600 Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division.

(a) The Administrator shall perform all the Secretary's investigative and enforcement functions under section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) and subparts F and G of this part.

(b) The Administrator, pursuant to a complaint, shall conduct such investigations as may be appropriate and, in connection therewith, enter and inspect such places and such records (and make transcriptions or copies thereof), question such persons and gather such information as deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine compliance regarding the matters which are the subject of the investigation.

(c) An employer being investigated shall make available to the Administrator such records, information, persons, and places as the Administrator deems appropriate to copy, transcribe, question, or inspect. No employer subject to the provisions of section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) and subparts F and G of this part shall interfere with any official of the Department of Labor performing an investigation, inspection or law enforcement function pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1288 or subpart F or G of this part. Any such interference shall be a violation of the attestation and subparts F and G of this part, and the Administrator may take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. (Federal criminal statutes prohibit certain interference with a Federal officer in the performance of official duties. 18 U.S.C. 111 and 18 U.S.C. 1114.)

(d)(1) An employer subject to subparts F and G of this part shall at all times cooperate in administrative and enforcement proceedings. No employer shall intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, retaliate, or in any manner discriminate against any person because such person has:

(i) Filed a complaint or appeal under or related to section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) or subpart F or G of this part;

(ii) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) or subpart F or G of this part;

(iii) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself or herself or others any right or protection afforded by section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) or subpart F or G of this part.

(iv) Consulted with an employee of a legal assistance program or an attorney on matters related to section 258 of the Act or to subpart F or G of this part or any other DOL regulation promulgated pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1288.

(2) In the event of such intimidation or restraint as are described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the conduct shall be a violation of the attestation and subparts F and G of this part, and the Administrator may take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate.

(e) The Administrator shall, to the extent possible under existing law, protect the confidentiality of any person who provides information to the Department in confidence in the course of an investigation or otherwise under subpart F or G of this part. However, confidentiality will not be afforded to the complainant or to information provided by the complainant.
