
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 655 - TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN WORKERS IN THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart G - Enforcement of the Limitations Imposed on Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports
##### § 655.625 Written notice, service and Federal Register publication of Administrator's determination.

(a) The Administrator's determination, issued pursuant to § 655.605 of this part, shall be served on the complainant, the employer, and other known interested parties by personal service or by certified mail at the parties' last known addresses. Where service by certified mail is not accepted by the party, the Administrator may exercise discretion to serve the determination by regular mail.

(b) Where the Administrator determines the prevailing practice regarding the use of alien crewmember(s) to perform longshore activity(ies) in a U.S. port (whether the Administrator's investigation involves an employer operating under an attestation, or under the automated vessel exception), the Administrator shall, simultaneously with issuance of the determination, publish in thea notice of the determination. The notice shall identify the activity(ies), the U.S. port, and the prevailing practice regarding the use of alien crewmembers. The notice shall also inform interested parties that they may request a hearing pursuant to § 655.630 of this part, within 15 days of the date of the determination.

(c) The Administrator shall file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, a copy of the complaint and the Administrator's determination.

(d) The Administrator's written determination required by § 655.605 of this part shall:

(1) Set forth the determination of the Administrator and the reason or reasons therefor, and in the case of a finding of violation(s) by an attesting employer, prescribe any remedies, including the amount of any civil money penalties assessed and the reason therefor, and/or any other remedies required for compliance with the employer's attestation.

(2) Inform the interested parties that they may request a hearing pursuant to § 655.625 of this part.

(3) Inform the interested parties that in the absence of a timely request for a hearing, received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge within 15 calendar days of the date of the determination, the determination of the Administrator shall become final and not appealable.

(4) Set forth the procedure for requesting a hearing, and give the address of the Chief Administrative Law Judge (with whom the request must be filed) and the representative(s) of the Solicitor of Labor (upon whom copies of the request must be served).

(5) Inform the parties that, pursuant to § 655.665, the Administrator shall notify ETA and the DHS of the occurrence of a violation by the attesting employer or of the non-attesting employer's ineligibility for the automated vessel exception.
