
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart K - Vocational Considerations
###### ยง 220.129 Education as a vocational factor.
####### How the Board evaluates the claimant's education.

(b)The importance of the claimant's educational background may depend upon how much time has passed between the completion of the claimant's formal education and the beginning of the claimant's physical or mental impairment(s) and what the claimant has done with his or her education in a work or other setting. Formal education completed many years before the claimant's impairment(s) began, or unused skills and knowledge that were a part of the claimant's formal education, may no longer be useful or meaningful in terms of ability to work. Therefore, the numerical grade level that the claimant completed in school may not represent his or her actual educational abilities. These educational abilities may be higher or lower than the numerical grade level that the claimant completed. However, if there is no other evidence to contradict it, the Board uses the claimant's numerical grade level to determine the claimant's educational abilities. The term "education" also includes how well the claimant is able to communicate in English since this ability is often acquired or improved by education. In evaluating the claimant's educational level, the Board uses the following categories:
