
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 655 - TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN WORKERS IN THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart H - Labor Condition Applications and Requirements for Employers Seeking To Employ Nonimmigrants on H-1b Visas in Specialty Occupations and as Fashion Models, and Requirements for Employers Seeking To Employ Nonimmigrants on H-1b1 and E-3 Visas in Specialty Occupations
##### § 655.750 What is the validity period of the labor condition application?
###### Invalidation or suspension of a labor condition application.

(c)(1) Invalidation of a labor condition application shall result from enforcement action(s) by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, under subpart I of this part-e.g., a final determination finding the employer's failure to meet the application's condition regarding strike or lockout; or the employer's willful failure to meet the wage and working conditions provisions of the application; or the employer's substantial failure to meet the notice of specification requirements of the application; see §§ 655.734 and 655.760 of this part; or the misrepresentation of a material fact in an application. Upon notice by the Administrator of the employer's disqualification, ETA shall invalidate the application and notify the employer, or the employer's authorized agent or representative. ETA shall notify the employer in writing of the reason(s) that the application is invalidated. When a labor condition application is invalidated, such action shall be the final decision of the Secretary.

(2) Suspension of a labor condition application may result from a discovery by ETA that it made an error in certifying the application because such application is incomplete, contains one or more obvious inaccuracies, or has not been signed. In such event, ETA shall immediately notify DHS and the employer. When an application is suspended, the employer may immediately submit to the certifying officer a corrected or completed application. If ETA does not receive a corrected application within 30 days of the suspension, or if the employer was disqualified by the Administrator, the application shall be immediately invalidated as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) An employer shall comply with the "required wages rate" and "prevailing working conditions" statements of its labor condition application required under §§ 655.731 and 655.732 of this part, respectively, even if such application is suspended or invalidated, at any time H-1B nonimmigrants are employed pursuant to the application, unless the application is superseded by a subsequent application which is certified by ETA.

(4) An employer's obligation to comply with the "no strike or lockout" and "notice" statements of its labor condition application (required under §§ 655.733 and 655.734 of this part, respectively), shall remain in effect and the employer shall remain subject to investigation and sanctions for misrepresentation on these statements even if such application is suspended or invalidated, regardless of whether H-1B nonimmigrants are actually employed, unless the application is superseded by a subsequent application which is certified by ETA.
