
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 655 - TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN WORKERS IN THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart L - What Requirements Must a Facility Meet to Employ H-1C Nonimmigrant Workers as Registered Nurses?
##### ยง 655.1114 Element IV - What are the timely and significant steps an H-1C employer must take to recruit and retain U.S. nurses?
###### Statutory steps,Operating a training program for registered nurses at the facility or financing (or providing participation in) a training program for registered nurses elsewhere.,i.e.,

(1)-(i)Training programs may include either courses leading to a higher degree (beyond an associate or a baccalaureate degree), or continuing education courses. If the program includes courses leading to a higher degree, they must be courses which are part of a program accepted for degree credit by a college or university and accredited by a State Board of Nursing or a State Board of Higher Education (or its equivalent), as appropriate. If the program includes continuing education courses, they must be courses which meet criteria established to qualify the nurses taking the courses to earn continuing education units accepted by a State Board of Nursing (or its equivalent). In either type of program, financing by the facility (either directly or arranged through a third party) shall cover the total costs of such training. The number of U.S. nurses for whom such training actually is provided shall be no less than half of the number of nurses who left the facility during the 12-month period prior to submission of the Attestation. U.S. nurses to whom such training was offered, but who rejected such training, may be counted towards those provided training.
