
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### What expenses may be deducted,Payments for attendant care services.

(c)-(1)(i) If because of the claimant's impairment(s) the claimant needs assistance in traveling to and from work, or while at work the claimant needs assistance with personal functions (e.g., eating, toileting) or with work-related functions (e.g., reading, communicating), the payments the claimant makes for those services may be deducted.

(ii) If because of the claimant's impairment(s) the claimant needs assistance with personal functions (e.g., dressing, administering medications) at home in preparation for going to and assistance in returning from work, the payments the claimant makes for those services may be deducted.

(iii)(A) The Board will deduct payments the claimant makes to a family member for attendant care services only if such person, in order to perform the services, suffers an economic loss by terminating his or her employment or by reducing the number of hours he or she worked.

(B) The Board considers a family member to be anyone who is related to the claimant by blood, marriage or adoption, whether or not that person lives with the claimant.

(iv) If only part of the claimant's payment to a person is for services that come under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Board will only deduct that part of the payment which is attributable to those services. For example, an attendant gets the claimant ready for work and helps the claimant in returning from work, which takes about 2 hours a day. The rest of the attendant's 8-hour day is spent cleaning the claimant's house and doing the claimant's laundry, etc. The Board would only deduct one-fourth of the attendant's daily wages as an impairment-related work expense.
