
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart E - Employment Service and Employment-Related Law Complaint System (Complaint System)
##### Complaints Filed at the Local and State Level
###### ยง 658.411 Action on complaints.
####### Filing complaints.

(a)

(1) Whenever an individual indicates an interest in filing a complaint under this subpart with an ES office, the SWA, or outreach staff, the individual receiving the complaint must offer to explain the operation of the Complaint System and must offer to take the complaint in writing.

(2) During the initial discussion with the complainant, the staff taking the complaint must:

(i) Make every effort to obtain all the information he/she perceives to be necessary to investigate the complaint;

(ii) Request that the complainant indicate all of the physical addresses, email, and telephone numbers through which he/she might be contacted during the investigation of the complaint; and

(iii) Request that the complainant contact the Complaint System Representative before leaving the area if possible, and explain the need to maintain contact during the investigation.

(3) The staff must ensure the complainant (or his/her representative) submits the complaint on the Complaint/Referral Form or another complaint form prescribed or approved by the Department or submits complaint information which satisfies paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The Complaint/Referral Form must be used for all complaints, including complaints about unlawful discrimination, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The staff must offer to assist the complainant in filling out the form and submitting all necessary information, and must do so if the complainant desires such assistance. If the complainant also represents several other complainants, all such complainants must be named. The complainant, or his/her representative, must sign the completed form in writing or electronically. The identity of the complainant(s) and any persons who furnish information relating to, or assisting in, an investigation of a complaint must be kept confidential to the maximum extent possible, consistent with applicable law and a fair determination of the complaint. A copy of the completed complaint submission must be given to the complainant(s), and the complaint form must be given to the appropriate Complaint System Representative described in ยง 658.410(g).

(4) Any complaint in a reasonable form (letter or email) which is signed by the complainant, or his/her representative, and includes sufficient information to initiate an investigation must be treated as if it were a properly completed Complaint/Referral Form filed in person. A letter (via hard copy or email) confirming the complaint was received must be sent to the complainant and the document must be sent to the appropriate Complaint System Representative. The Complaint System Representative must request additional information from the complainant if the complainant has not provided sufficient information to investigate the matter expeditiously.
