
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart E - Employment Service and Employment-Related Law Complaint System (Complaint System)
##### Complaints Filed at the Local and State Level
###### ยง 658.411 Action on complaints.
####### Complaints regarding an employment-related law.

(b)(1) When a complaint is filed regarding an employment-related law with a ES office or a SWA the office must determine if the complainant is an MSFW.

(i) If the complainant is a non-MSFW, the office must immediately refer the complainant to the appropriate enforcement agency, another public agency, a legal aid organization, and/or a consumer advocate organization, as appropriate, for assistance. Upon completing the referral the local or State representative is not required to follow-up with the complainant.

(ii) If the complainant is a MSFW, the ES office or SWA Complaint System Representative must:

(A) Take from the MSFW or his/her representative, in writing (hard copy or electronic), the complaint(s) describing the alleged violation(s) of the employment-related law(s); and

(B) Attempt to resolve the issue informally at the local level, except in cases where the complaint was submitted to the SWA and the SMA determines that he/she must take immediate action and except in cases where informal resolution at the local level would be detrimental to the complainant(s). In cases where informal resolution at the local level would be detrimental to the complainant(s), the Complaint System Representative or SMA (depending on where the complaint was filed) must immediately refer the complaint to the appropriate enforcement agency. Concurrently, the Complaint System Representative must offer to refer the MSFW to other employment services should the MSFW be interested.

(C) If the issue is not resolved within 5 business days, the Complaint System Representative must refer the complaint to the appropriate enforcement agency (or another public agency, a legal aid organization, or a consumer advocate organization, as appropriate) for further assistance.

(D) If the ES office or SWA Complaint System Representative determines that the complaint must be referred to a State or Federal agency, he/she must refer the complaint to the SMA who must immediately refer the complaint to the appropriate enforcement agency for prompt action.

(E) If the complaint was referred to the SMA under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this section, the representative must provide the SMA's contact information to the complainant. The SMA must notify the complainant of the enforcement agency to which the complaint was referred.

(2) If an enforcement agency makes a final determination that the employer violated an employment-related law and the complaint is connected to a job order, the SWA must initiate procedures for discontinuation of services immediately in accordance with subpart F of this part. If this occurs, the SWA must notify the complainant and the employer of this action.
