
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart E - Employment Service and Employment-Related Law Complaint System (Complaint System)
##### Complaints Filed at the Local and State Level
###### ยง 658.411 Action on complaints.
####### Complaints regarding the ES regulations (ES complaints).

(d)(1) When an ES complaint is filed with a ES office or a SWA the following procedures apply:

(i) When an ES complaint is filed against an employer, the proper office to handle the complaint is the ES office serving the area in which the employer is located.

(ii) When a complaint is against an employer in another State or against another SWA:

(A) The ES office or SWA receiving the complaint must send, after ensuring that the Complaint/Referral Form is adequately completed, a copy of the Complaint/Referral Form and copies of any relevant documents to the SWA in the other State. Copies of the referral letter must be sent to the complainant, and copies of the complaint and referral letter must be sent to the ETA Regional Office(s) with jurisdiction over the transferring and receiving State agencies. All such copies must be sent via hard copy or electronic mail.

(B) The SWA receiving the complaint must handle the complaint as if it had been initially filed with that SWA.

(C) The ETA regional office with jurisdiction over the receiving SWA must follow-up with it to ensure the complaint is handled in accordance with these regulations.

(D) If the complaint is against more than one SWA, the complaint must so clearly state. Additionally, the complaints must be processed as separate complaints and must be handled according to procedures in this paragraph (d).

(iii) When an ES complaint is filed against a ES office, the proper office to handle the complaint is the ES office serving the area in which the alleged violation occurred.

(iv) When an ES complaint is filed against more than one ES offices and is in regard to an alleged agency-wide violation the SWA representative or his/her designee must process the complaint.

(v) When a complaint is filed alleging a violation that occurred in the same State but through a different ES office, the ES office where the complaint is filed must ensure that the Complaint/Referral Form is adequately completed and send the form to the appropriate local ES office for tracking, further referral if necessary, and follow-up. A copy of the referral letter must be sent to the complainant via hard copy or electronic mail.

(2)(i) If a complaint regarding an alleged violation of the ES regulations is filed in a ES office by either a non-MSFW or MSFW, or their representative(s) (or if all necessary information has been submitted to the office pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the appropriate ES office Complaint System Representative must investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint immediately upon receipt.

(ii) If resolution has not been achieved to the satisfaction of the complainant within 15 working days after receipt of the complaint, or 5 working days with respect to complaints filed by or on behalf of MSFWs, (or after all necessary information has been submitted to the ES office pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the Complaint System Representative must send the complaint to the SWA for resolution or further action.

(iii) The ES office must notify the complainant and the respondent, in writing (via hard copy or electronic mail), of the determination (pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section) of its investigation under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, or of the referral to the SWA (if referred).

(3) When a non-MSFW or his/her representative files a complaint regarding the ES regulations with a SWA, or when a non-MSFW complaint is referred from a ES office the following procedures apply:

(i) If the complaint is not transferred to an enforcement agency under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section the Complaint System Representative must investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint immediately upon receipt.

(ii) If resolution at the SWA level has not been accomplished within 30 working days after the complaint was received by the SWA (or after all necessary information has been submitted to the SWA pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), whether the complaint was received directly or from an ES office pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the SWA official must make a written determination regarding the complaint and must send electronic copies to the complainant and the respondent. The determination must follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(4)(i) When a MSFW or his/her representative files a complaint regarding the ES regulations directly with a SWA, or when a MSFW complaint is referred from a ES office, the SMA must investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint immediately upon receipt and may, if necessary, conduct a further investigation.

(ii) If resolution at the SWA level has not been accomplished within 20 business days after the complaint was received by the SWA (or after all necessary information has been submitted to the SWA pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the SMA must make a written determination regarding the complaint and must send electronic copies to the complainant and the respondent. The determination must follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(5)(i) All written determinations by ES or SWA officials on complaints under the ES regulations must be sent by certified mail (or another legally viable method) and a copy of the determination may be sent via electronic mail. The determination must include all of the following:

(A) The results of any SWA investigation;

(B) The conclusions reached on the allegations of the complaint;

(C) If a resolution was not reached, an explanation of why the complaint was not resolved; and

(D) If the complaint is against the SWA, an offer to the complainant of the opportunity to request, in writing, a hearing within 20 business days after the certified date of receipt of the notification.

(ii) If SWA officials determine that the employer has not violated the ES regulations, the SWA must offer to the complainant the opportunity to request a hearing within 20 working days after the certified date of receipt of the notification.

(iii) If the SWA, within 20 business days from the certified date of receipt of the notification provided for in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, receives a written request (via hard copy or electronic mail) for a hearing, the SWA must refer the complaint to a State hearing official for hearing. The SWA must, in writing (via hard copy or electronic mail), notify the respective parties to whom the determination was sent that:

(A) The parties will be notified of the date, time, and place of the hearing;

(B) The parties may be represented at the hearing by an attorney or other representative;

(C) The parties may bring witnesses and/or documentary evidence to the hearing;

(D) The parties may cross-examine opposing witnesses at the hearing;

(E) The decision on the complaint will be based on the evidence presented at the hearing;

(F) The State hearing official may reschedule the hearing at the request of a party or its representative; and

(G) With the consent of the SWA official and of the State hearing official, the party who requested the hearing may withdraw the request for the hearing in writing before the hearing.

(iv) If the State agency makes a final determination that the employer who has or is currently using the ES has violated the ES regulations, the determination, pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section, must state that the State will initiate procedures for discontinuation of services to the employer in accordance with subpart F of this part.

(6) A complaint regarding the ES regulations must be handled to resolution by these regulations only if it is made within 2 years of the alleged occurrence.
