
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart E - Employment Service and Employment-Related Law Complaint System (Complaint System)
##### When a Complaint Rises to the Federal Level
###### § 658.421 Handling of Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service regulation-related complaints.

(a)(1) Except as provided below in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no complaint alleging a violation of the ES regulations may be handled at the ETA regional office level until the complainant has exhausted the SWA administrative remedies set forth at §§ 658.411 through 658.418. If the Regional Administrator determines that a complaint has been prematurely filed with an ETA regional office, the Regional Administrator must inform the complainant within 10 working days in writing that the complainant must first exhaust those remedies before the complaint may be filed in the regional office. A copy of this letter and a copy of the complaint also must be sent to the State Administrator.

(2) If a complaint is submitted directly to the Regional Administrator and if he/she determines that the nature and scope of a complaint described in paragraph (a) of this section is such that the time required to exhaust the administrative procedures at the SWA level would adversely affect a significant number of individuals, the RA must accept the complaint and take the following action:

(i) If the complaint is filed against an employer, the regional office must handle the complaint in a manner consistent with the requirements imposed upon State agencies by §§ 658.411 and 658.418. A hearing must be offered to the parties once the Regional Administrator makes a determination on the complaint.

(ii) If the complaint is filed against a SWA, the regional office must follow procedures established at § 658.411(d).

(b) The ETA regional office is responsible for handling appeals of determinations made on complaints at the SWA level. An appeal includes any letter or other writing which the Regional Administrator reasonably understands to be requesting review if it is received by the regional office and signed by a party to the complaint.

(c)(1) Once the Regional Administrator receives a timely appeal, he/she must request the complete SWA file, including the original Complaint/Referral Form from the appropriate SWA.

(2) The Regional Administrator must review the file in the case and must determine within 10 business days whether any further investigation or action is appropriate; however if the Regional Administrator determines that he/she needs to request legal advice from the Office of the Solicitor at the U.S. Department of Labor then the Regional Administrator is allowed 20 business days to make this determination.

(d) If the Regional Administrator determines that no further action is warranted, the Regional Administrator will send his/her determination in writing to the appellant within 5 days of the determination, with a notification that the appellant may request a hearing before a Department of Labor Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) by filing a hearing request in writing with the Regional Administrator within 20 working days of the appellant's receipt of the notification.

(e) If the Regional Administrator determines that further investigation or other action is warranted, the Regional Administrator must undertake such an investigation or other action necessary to resolve the complaint.

(f) After taking the actions described in paragraph (e) of this section, the Regional Administrator must either affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the State hearing official, and must notify each party to the State hearing official's hearing or to whom the State office determination was sent, notice of the determination and notify the parties that they may appeal the determination to the Department of Labor's Office of Administrative Law Judges within 20 business days of the party's receipt of the notice.

(g) If the Regional Administrator finds reason to believe that a SWA or one of its ES offices has violated ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must follow the procedures set forth at subpart H of this part.
