
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart G - Review and Assessment of State Workforce Agency Compliance With Employment Service Regulations
##### ยง 658.603 Employment and Training Administration regional office responsibility.

(a) The Regional Administrator must have responsibility for the regular review and assessment of SWA performance and compliance with ES regulations.

(b) The Regional Administrator must participate with the National Office staff in reviewing and approving the State Plan for the SWAs within the region. In reviewing the State Plans the Regional Administrator and appropriate National Office staff must consider relevant factors including the following:

(1) State Workforce Agency compliance with ES regulations;

(2) State Workforce Agency performance against the goals and objectives established in the previous State Plan;

(3) The effect which economic conditions and other external factors considered by the ETA in the resource allocation process may have had or are expected to have on the SWA's performance;

(4) SWA adherence to national program emphasis; and

(5) The adequacy and appropriateness of the State Plan for carrying out ES programs.

(c) The Regional Administrator must assess the overall performance of SWAs on an ongoing basis through desk reviews and the use of required reporting systems and other available information.

(d) As appropriate, Regional Administrators must conduct or have conducted:

(1) Comprehensive on-site reviews of SWAs and their offices to review SWA organization, management, and program operations;

(2) Periodic performance reviews of SWA operation of ES programs to measure actual performance against the State Plan, past performance, the performance of other SWAs, etc.;

(3) Audits of SWA programs to review their program activity and to assess whether the expenditure of grant funds has been in accordance with the approved budget. Regional Administrators also may conduct audits through other agencies or organizations or may require the SWA to have audits conducted;

(4) Validations of data entered into management information systems to assess:

(i) The accuracy of data entered by the SWAs into the management information system;

(ii) Whether the SWAs' data validating and reviewing procedures conform to Department instructions; and

(iii) Whether SWAs have implemented any corrective action plans required by the Department to remedy deficiencies in their validation programs;

(5) Technical assistance programs to assist SWAs in carrying out ES regulations and programs;

(6) Reviews to assess whether the SWA has complied with corrective action plans imposed by the Department or by the SWA itself; and

(7) Random, unannounced field checks of a sample of agricultural work sites to which ES placements have been made through the clearance system to determine and document whether wages, hours, working and housing conditions are as specified on the job order. If regional office staff find reason to believe that conditions vary from job order specifications, findings must be documented on the Complaint/Apparent Violation Referral Form and provided to the State Workforce Agency to be handled as an apparent violation under ยง 658.419.

(e) The Regional Administrator must provide technical assistance to SWAs to assist them in carrying out ES regulations and programs.

(f) The Regional Administrator must appoint a RMA who must carry out the duties set forth in this subpart. The RMA must:

(1) Review the effective functioning of the SMAs in his/her region;

(2) Review the performance of SWAs in providing the full range of employment services to MSFWs;

(3) Take steps to resolve ES-related problems of MSFWs which come to his/her attention;

(4) Recommend to the Regional Administrator changes in policy towards MSFWs;

(5) Review the operation of the Complaint System; and

(6) Serve as an advocate to improve service for MSFWs within the ES. The RMA must be a member of the Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee.

(g) The RMA must be appointed by the Regional Administrator after informing farmworker organizations and other organizations in the region with expertise concerning MSFWs of the opening and encouraging them to refer qualified applicants to apply through the Federal merit system. The RMA must have direct personal access to the Regional Administrator wherever he/she finds it necessary. Among qualified candidates, individuals must be sought who meet the criteria used in the selection of the SMAs, as provided in ยง 653.108(b) of this chapter.

(h) The Regional Administrator must ensure that staff necessary to fulfill effectively all the regional office responsibilities set forth in this section are assigned.

(i) The RMA within the first 3 months of his/her tenure must participate in a training session(s) approved by the National Office.

(j) At the regional level, the RMA must have primary responsibility for:

(1) Monitoring the effectiveness of the Complaint System set forth at subpart E of this part;

(2) Apprising appropriate State and ETA officials of deficiencies in the Complaint System; and

(3) Providing technical assistance to SMAs in the region.

(k) At the ETA regional level, the RMA must have primary responsibility for ensuring SWA compliance with ES regulations as it pertains to services to MSFWs is monitored by the regional office. He/she must independently assess on a continuing basis the provision of employment services to MSFWs, seeking out and using:

(1) Information from SMAs, including all reports and other documents;

(2) Program performance data;

(3) The periodic and other required reports from SWAs;

(4) Federal on-site reviews;

(5) Other reports prepared by the National Office;

(6) Information received from farmworker organizations and employers; and

(7) Any other pertinent information which comes to his/her attention from any possible source.

(8) In addition, the RMA must consider his/her personal observations from visits to ES offices, agricultural work sites, and migrant camps.

(l) The RMA must assist the Regional Administrator and other line officials in applying appropriate corrective and remedial actions to State agencies.

(m) The Regional Administrator's quarterly report to the National Office must include the RMA's summary of his/her independent assessment as required in paragraph (f)(5) of this section. The fourth quarter summary must include an annual summary from the region. The summary also must include both a quantitative and a qualitative analysis of his/her reviews and must address all the matters with respect to which he/she has responsibilities under these regulations.

(n) The RMA must review the activities and performance of the SMAs and the State monitoring system in the region, and must recommend any appropriate changes in the operation of the system to the Regional Administrator. The RMA's review must include a determination whether the SMA:

(1) Does not have adequate access to information;

(2) Is being impeded in fulfilling his/her duties; or

(3) Is making recommendations that are being consistently ignored by SWA officials. If the RMA believes that the effectiveness of any SMA has been substantially impeded by the State Administrator, other State agency officials, any Federal officials, or other ES staff, he/she must report and recommend appropriate actions to the Regional Administrator. Copies of the recommendations must be provided to the NMA electronically or in hard copy.

(o)(1) The RMA must be informed of all proposed changes in policy and practice within the ES, including ES regulations, which may affect the delivery of services to MSFWs. He/she must advise the Regional Administrator on all such proposed changes which, in his/her opinion, may adversely affect MSFWs or which may substantially improve the delivery of services to MSFWs.

(2) The RMA also may recommend changes in ES policy or regulations, as well as changes in the funding of State Workforce Agencies and/or adjustments of reallocation of the discretionary portions of funding formulae as they pertain to MSFWs.
