
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart G - Review and Assessment of State Workforce Agency Compliance With Employment Service Regulations
##### ยง 658.601 State Workforce Agency responsibility.
###### e.g.

(7)(i) The provisions of the ES regulations which require numerical and non-numerical assessment of service to special applicant groups (, services to veterans at 20 CFR part 1001-Services for Veterans and services to MSFWs at this part and part 653 of this chapter), are supplementary to the provisions of this section.

(ii) Each State Administrator and ES office manager must ensure their staff know and carry out ES regulations, including regulations on performance standards and program emphases, and any corrective action plans imposed by the SWA or by the Department.

(iii) Each State Administrator must ensure the SWA complies with its approved State Plan.

(iv) Each State Administrator must ensure to the maximum extent feasible the accuracy of data entered by the SWA into Department-required management information systems. Each SWA must establish and maintain a data validation system pursuant to Department instructions. The system must review every local ES office at least once every 4 years. The system must include the validation of time distribution reports and the review of data gathering procedures.

(b) [Reserved]
