
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Residential modifications.

(ii)If the claimant's impairment(s) requires that the claimant make modifications to his or her residence, the location of the claimant's place of work will determine if the cost of these modifications will be deducted. If the claimant is employed away from home, only the cost of changes made outside of the claimant's home to permit the claimant to get to his or her means of transportation (e.g., the installation of an exterior ramp for a wheelchair confined person or special exterior railings or pathways for someone who requires crutches) will be deducted. Costs relating to modifications of the inside of the claimant's home will not be deducted. If the claimant works at home, the costs of modifying the inside of the claimant's home in order to create a working space to accommodate the claimant's impairment(s) will be deducted to the extent that the changes pertain specifically to the space in which the claimant works. Examples of such changes are the enlargement of a doorway leading into the workspace or modification of the workspace to accommodate problems in dexterity. However, if the claimant is self-employed at home, any cost deducted as a business expense cannot be deducted as an impairment-related work expense.
