
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart H - Federal Application of Remedial Action to State Workforce Agencies
##### § 658.702 Initial action by the Regional Administrator.

(a) The ETA Regional Administrator is responsible for ensuring that all SWAs in his/her region are in compliance with ES regulations.

(b) Wherever a Regional Administrator discovers or is apprised of possible SWA violations of ES regulations by the review and assessment activities under subpart G of this part, or through required reports or written complaints from individuals, organizations, or employers which are elevated to the Department after the exhaustion of SWA administrative remedies, the Regional Administrator must conduct an investigation. Within 10 business days after receipt of the report or other information, the Regional Administrator must make a determination whether there is probable cause to believe that a SWA has violated ES regulations.

(c) The Regional Administrator must accept complaints regarding possible SWA violations of ES regulations from employee organizations, employers or other groups, without exhaustion of the complaint process described at subpart E of this part, if the Regional Administrator determines that the nature and scope of the complaint are such that the time required to exhaust the administrative procedures at the State level would adversely affect a significant number of applicants. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must investigate the matter within 10 business days, may provide the SWA 10 business days for comment, and must make a determination within an additional 10 business days whether there is probable cause to believe that the SWA has violated ES regulations.

(d) If the Regional Administrator determines that there is no probable cause to believe that a SWA has violated ES regulations, he/she must retain all reports and supporting information in Department files. In all cases where the Regional Administrator has insufficient information to make a probable cause determination, he/she must so notify the Administrator in writing and the time for the investigation must be extended 20 additional business days.

(e) If the Regional Administrator determines there is probable cause to believe a SWA has violated ES regulations, he/she must issue a Notice of Initial Findings of Non-compliance by registered mail (or other legally viable means) to the offending SWA. The notice will specify the nature of the violation, cite the regulations involved, and indicate corrective action which may be imposed in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section. If the non-compliance involves services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy of said notice must be sent to the NMA.

(f)(1) The SWA may have 20 business days to comment on the findings, or up to 20 additional days, if the Regional Administrator determines a longer period is appropriate. The SWA's comments must include agreement or disagreement with the findings and suggested corrective actions, where appropriate.

(2) After the period elapses, the Regional Administrator must prepare within 20 business days, written final findings which specify whether the SWA has violated ES regulations. If in the final findings the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has not violated ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must notify the State Administrator of this finding and retain supporting documents in his/her files. If the final finding involves services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, the Regional Administrator also must notify the NMA. If the Regional Administrator determines a SWA has violated ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must prepare a Final Notice of Noncompliance which must specify the violation(s) and cite the regulations involved. The Final Notice of Noncompliance must be sent to the SWA by registered mail or other legally viable means. If the noncompliance involves services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy of the Final Notice must be sent to the NMA.

(g) If the violation involves the misspending of grant funds, the Regional Administrator may order in the Final Notice of Noncompliance a disallowance of the expenditure and may either demand repayment or withhold future funds in the amount in question. If the Regional Administrator disallows costs, the Regional Administrator must give the reasons for the disallowance, inform the SWA that the disallowance is effective immediately and that no more funds may be spent in the disallowed manner, and offer the SWA the opportunity to request a hearing pursuant to § 658.707. The offer, or the acceptance of an offer of a hearing, however, does not stay the effectiveness of the disallowance. The Regional Administrator must keep complete records of the disallowance.

(h) If the violation does not involve misspending of grant funds or the Regional Administrator determines that the circumstances warrant other action:

(1) The Final Notice of Noncompliance must direct the SWA to implement a specific corrective action plan to correct all violations. If the SWA's comment demonstrates with supporting evidence (except where inappropriate) that all violations have already been corrected, the Regional Administrator need not impose a corrective action plan and instead may cite the violation(s) and accept the SWA's resolution, subject to follow-up review, if necessary. If the Regional Administrator determines that the violation(s) cited had been found previously and that the corrective action(s) taken had not corrected the violation(s) contrary to the findings of previous follow-up reviews, the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions to the SWA pursuant to § 658.704.

(2) The Final Notice of Noncompliance must specify the time by which each corrective action must be taken. This period may not exceed 40 business days unless the Regional Administrator determines that exceptional circumstances necessitate corrective actions requiring a longer time period. In such cases, and if the violations involve services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the exceptional circumstances which necessitate more time, and must specify the additional time period. The specified time must commence with the date of signature on the registered mail receipt.

(3) When the time provided for in paragraph (h)(2) of this section elapses, Department staff must review the SWA's efforts as documented by the SWA to determine if the corrective action(s) has been taken and if the SWA has achieved compliance with ES regulations. If necessary, Department staff must conduct a follow-up visit as part of this review.

(4) If, as a result of this review, the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has corrected the violation(s), the Regional Administrator must record the basis for this determination, notify the SWA, send a copy to the Administrator, and retain a copy in Department files.

(5) If, as a result of this review, the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has taken corrective action but is unable to determine if the violation has been corrected due to seasonality or other factors, the Regional Administrator must notify in writing the SWA and the Administrator of his/her findings. The Regional Administrator must conduct further follow-up at an appropriate time to make a final determination if the violation has been corrected. If the Regional Administrator's follow-up reveals that violations have not been corrected, the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions to the SWA pursuant to § 658.704.

(6) If, as a result of the review the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has not corrected the violations and has not made good faith efforts and adequate progress toward the correction of the violations, the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions to the SWA pursuant to § 658.704.

(7) If, as a result of the review, the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has made good faith efforts and adequate progress toward the correction of the violation and it appears the violation will be fully corrected within a reasonable amount of time, the SWA must be advised by registered mail or other legally viable means (with a copy sent to the Administrator) of this conclusion, of remaining differences, of further needed corrective action, and that all deficiencies must be corrected within a specified time period. This period may not exceed 40 business days unless the Regional Administrator determines exceptional circumstances necessitate corrective action requiring more time. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the exceptional circumstances which necessitate more time, and must specify that time period. The specified time commences with the date of signature on the registered mail receipt.

(8)(i) If the SWA has been given additional time pursuant to paragraph (h)(7) of this section, Department staff must review the SWA's efforts as documented by the SWA at the end of the time period. If necessary, the Department must conduct a follow-up visit as part of this review.

(ii) If the SWA has corrected the violation(s), the Regional Administrator must document that finding, notify in writing the SWA and the Administrator, and retain supporting documents in Department files. If the SWA has not corrected the violation(s), the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions pursuant to § 658.704.
