
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart H - Federal Application of Remedial Action to State Workforce Agencies
##### ยง 658.705 Decision to decertify.

(a) Within 30 business days of receiving a request for decertification, the ETA Assistant Secretary must review the case and must decide whether to proceed with decertification.

(b) The Assistant Secretary must grant the request for decertification unless he/she makes a finding that:

(1) The violations of ES regulations are neither serious nor continual;

(2) The SWA is in compliance; or

(3) The Assistant Secretary has reason to believe the SWA will achieve compliance within 80 business days unless exceptional circumstances necessitate more time, pursuant to the remedial action already applied or to be applied. (In the event the Assistant Secretary does not have sufficient information to act upon the request, he/she may postpone the determination for up to an additional 20 business days in order to obtain any available additional information.) In making a determination of whether violations are "serious" or "continual," as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Assistant Secretary must consider:

(i) Statewide or multiple deficiencies as shown by performance data and/or on-site reviews;

(ii) Recurrent violations, even if they do not persist over consecutive reporting periods, and

(iii) The good faith efforts of the State to achieve full compliance with ES regulations as shown by the record.

(c) If the Assistant Secretary denies a request for decertification, he/she must write a complete report documenting his/her findings and, if appropriate, instructing an alternate remedial action or actions be applied. Electronic copies of the report must be sent to the Regional Administrator. Notice of the Assistant Secretary's decision must be published promptly in theand the report of the Assistant Secretary must be made available for public inspection and copying.

(d) If the Assistant Secretary decides decertification is appropriate, he/she must submit the case to the Secretary providing written explanation for his/her recommendation of decertification.

(e) Within 30 business days after receiving the Assistant Secretary's report, the Secretary must determine whether to decertify the SWA. The Secretary must grant the request for decertification unless he/she makes one of the three findings set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the Secretary decides not to decertify, he/she must then instruct that remedial action be continued or that alternate actions be applied. The Secretary must write a report explaining his/her reasons for not decertifying the SWA and copies (hard copy and electronic) will be sent to the SWA. Notice of the Secretary's decision must be published promptly in theand the report of the Secretary must be made available for public inspection and copy.

(f) Where either the Assistant Secretary or the Secretary denies a request for decertification and orders further remedial action, the Regional Administrator must continue to monitor the SWA's compliance. If the SWA achieves compliance within the time established pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Regional Administrator must terminate the remedial actions. If the SWA fails to achieve full compliance within that time period after the Secretary's decision not to decertify, the Regional Administrator must submit a report of his/her findings to the Assistant Secretary who must reconsider the request for decertification pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
