
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 658 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
#### Subpart G - Review and Assessment of State Workforce Agency Compliance With Employment Service Regulations
##### ยง 658.604 Assessment and evaluation of program performance data.
###### prima facie

(2) Program performance data, however, may so strongly indicate that a SWA's performance is so poor that the data may raise a presumption (case) that a SWA is violating ES regulations or the State Plan. A SWA's failure to meet the operational objectives set forth in the State Plan raises a presumption that the agency is violating ES regulations and/or obligations under its State Plan. In such cases, the Department must afford the SWA an opportunity to rebut the presumption of a violation pursuant to the procedures at subpart H of this part.

(3) The Department must take into account that certain program performance data may measure items over which SWAs have direct or substantial control while other data may measure items over which the SWA has indirect or minimal control.

(i) Generally, for example, a SWA has direct and substantial control over the delivery of employment services such as referrals to jobs, job development contacts, counseling, referrals to career and supportive services, and the conduct of field checks.

(ii) State Workforce Agencies, however, have only indirect control over the outcome of services. For example, SWAs cannot guarantee that an employer will hire a referred applicant, nor can they guarantee that the terms and conditions of employment will be as stated on a job order.

(iii) Outside forces, such as a sudden heavy increase in unemployment rates, a strike by SWA employees, or a severe drought or flood, may skew the results measured by program performance data.

(4) The Department must consider a SWA's failure to keep accurate and complete program performance data required by ES regulations as a violation of the ES regulations.
