
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Non-medical appliances and equipment.

(iii)Expenses for appliances and equipment which the claimant does not ordinarily use for medical purposes are generally not deductible. Examples of these items are portable room heaters, air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and electric air cleaners. However, expenses for such items may be deductible when unusual circumstances clearly establish an impairment-related and medically verified need for such an item because it is for the control of the claimant's disabling impairment(s), thus enabling the claimant to work. To be considered essential, the item must be of such a nature that if it were not available to the claimant there would be an immediate adverse impact on the claimant's ability to function in his or her work activity. In this situation, the expense is deductible whether the item is used at home or in the working place. An example would be the need for an electric air cleaner by a person with severe respiratory disease who cannot function in a non-purified air environment. An item such as an exercycle is not deductible if used for general physical fitness. If an exercycle is prescribed and used as necessary treatment to enable the claimant to work, the Board will deduct payments the claimant makes toward its cost.
