
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Payments for drugs and medical services.

(5)(i) If the claimant must use drugs or medical services (including diagnostic procedures) to control his or her impairment(s), the payments the claimant makes for them may be deducted. The drugs or services must be prescribed (or utilized) to reduce or eliminate symptoms of the claimant's impairment(s) or to slow down its progression. The diagnostic procedures must be performed to ascertain how the impairment(s) is progressing or to determine what type of treatment should be provided for the impairment(s).

(ii) Examples of deductible drugs and medical services are anti-convulsant drugs to control epilepsy or anticonvulsant blood level monitoring; antidepressant medication for mental impairments; medication used to allay the side effects of certain treatments; radiation treatment or chemotherapy for cancer patients; corrective surgery for spinal impairments; electroencephalograms and brain scans related to a disabling epileptic impairment; tests to determine the efficacy of medication on a diabetic condition; and immunosuppressive medications that kidney transplant patients regularly take to protect against graft rejection.

(iii) The Board will only deduct the costs of drugs or services that are directly related to the claimant's impairment(s). Examples of non-deductible items are routine annual physical examinations, optician services (unrelated to a disabling visual impairment) and dental examinations.
