
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Payments for transportation costs.

(iii)The Board will deduct transportation costs in these situations:

(A) The claimant's impairment(s) requires that in order to get to work the claimant needs a vehicle that has structural or operational modifications. The modifications must be critical to the claimant's operation or use of the vehicle and directly related to the claimant's impairment(s). The Board will deduct the cost of the modifications, but not the cost of the vehicle. The Board will also deduct a mileage allowance for the trip to and from work. The allowance will be based on data compiled by the Federal Highway Administration relating to vehicle operating costs.

(B) The claimant's impairment(s) requires the claimant to use driver assistance, taxicabs or other hired vehicles in order to work. The Board will deduct amounts paid to the driver and, if the claimant's own vehicle is used, the Board will also deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.

(C) The claimant's impairment(s) prevents the claimant from taking available public transportation to and from work and the claimant must drive his or her (unmodified) vehicle to work. If the Board can verify through the claimant's physician or other sources that the need to drive is caused by the claimant's impairment(s) (and not due to the unavailability of public transportation), the Board will deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
