
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 661 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - State Governance Provisions
##### ยง 661.230 What are the requirements for modification of the State Workforce Investment Plan?

(a) The State may submit a modification of its workforce investment plan at any time during the five-year life of the plan.

(b) Modifications are required when:

(1) Changes in Federal or State law or policy substantially change the assumptions upon which the plan is based.

(2) There are changes in the Statewide vision, strategies, policies, performance indicators, the methodology used to determine local allocation of funds, reorganizations which change the working relationship with system employees, changes in organizational responsibilities, changes to the membership structure of the State Board or alternative entity and similar substantial changes to the State's workforce investment system.

(3) The State has failed to meet performance goals, and must adjust service strategies.

(c) Modifications are required in accordance with the Wagner-Peyser provisions at 20 CFR 652.212.

(d) Modifications to the State Plan are subject to the same public review and comment requirements that apply to the development of the original State Plan.

(e) State Plan modifications will be approved by the Secretary based on the approval standard applicable to the original State Plan under ยง 661.220(e).
