
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 662 - DESCRIPTION OF THE ONE-STOP SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - One-Stop Partners and the Responsibilities of Partners
##### § 662.220 What entity serves as the One-Stop partner for a particular program in the local area?

(a) The "entity" that carries out the program and activities listed in §§ 662.200 and 662.210 and, therefore, serves as the One-Stop partner is the grant recipient, administrative entity or organization responsible for administering the funds of the specified program in the local area. The term "entity" does not include the service providers that contract with or are subrecipients of the local administrative entity. For programs that do not include local administrative entities, the responsible State Agency should be the partner. Specific entities for particular programs are identified in paragraph (b) of this section. If a program or activity listed in § 662.200 is not carried out in a local area, the requirements relating to a required One-Stop partner are not applicable to such program or activity in that local One-Stop system.

(b)(1) For title II of WIA, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) is the State eligible entity. The State eligible entity may designate an eligible provider, or a consortium of eligible providers, as the "entity" for this purpose;

(2) For title I, Part A, of the Rehabilitation Act, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the designated State agency or designated unit specified under section 101(a)(2) that is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities; and

(3) Under WIA, the national programs, including Job Corps, the WIA Indian and Native American program, the Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers program, and the Veterans' Workforce Investment program, are required One-Stop partners. Local Boards must include them in the One-Stop delivery system where they are present in their local area. In local areas where the national programs are not present, States and Local Boards should take steps to ensure that customer groups served by these programs have access to services through the One-Stop delivery system.
