
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 662 - DESCRIPTION OF THE ONE-STOP SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart C - Memorandum of Understanding for the One-Stop Delivery System
##### ยง 662.310 Is there a single MOU for the local area or are there to be separate MOU's between the Local Board and each partner?

(a) A single "umbrella" MOU may be developed that addresses the issues relating to the local One-Stop delivery system for the Local Board, chief elected official and all partners, or the Local Board, chief elected official and the partners may decide to enter into separate agreements between the Local Board (with the agreement of the chief elected official) and one or more partners. Under either approach, the requirements described in this subpart apply. Since funds are generally appropriated annually, financial agreements may be negotiated with each partner annually to clarify funding of services and operating costs of the system under the MOU.

(b) WIA emphasizes full and effective partnerships between Local Boards, chief elected officials and One-Stop partners. Local Boards and partners must enter into good-faith negotiations. Local Boards, chief elected officials and partners may request assistance from a State agency responsible for administering the partner program, the Governor, State Board, or other appropriate parties. The State agencies, the State Board, and the Governor may also consult with the appropriate Federal agencies to address impasse situations after exhausting other alternatives. The Local Board and partners must document the negotiations and efforts that have taken place. Any failure to execute an MOU between a Local Board and a required partner must be reported by the Local Board and the required partner to the Governor or State Board, and the State agency responsible for administering the partner's program, and by the Governor or the State Board and the responsible State agency to the Secretary of Labor and to the head of any other Federal agency with responsibility for oversight of a partner's program. (WIA sec. 121(c).)

(c) If an impasse has not been resolved through the alternatives available under this section any partner that fails to execute an MOU may not be permitted to serve on the Local Board. In addition, any local area in which a Local Board has failed to execute an MOU with all of the required partners is not eligible for State incentive grants awarded on the basis of local coordination of activities under 20 CFR 665.200(d)(2). These sanctions are in addition to, not in lieu of, any other remedies that may be applicable to the Local Board or to each partner for failure to comply with the statutory requirement.
