
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 663 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Services Through the One-Stop Delivery System
##### ยง 663.100 What is the role of the adult and dislocated worker programs in the One-Stop delivery system?

(a) The One-Stop system is the basic delivery system for adult and dislocated worker services. Through this system, adults and dislocated workers can access a continuum of services. The services are organized into three levels: core, intensive, and training.

(b) The chief elected official or his/her designee(s), as the local grant recipient(s) for the adult and dislocated worker programs, is a required One-Stop partner and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in 20 CFR part 662. Consistent with those provisions:

(1) Core services for adults and dislocated workers must be made available in at least one comprehensive One-Stop center in each local workforce investment area. Services may also be available elsewhere, either at affiliated sites or at specialized centers. For example, specialized centers may be established to serve workers being dislocated from a particular employer or industry, or to serve residents of public housing.

(2) The One-Stop centers also make intensive services available to adults and dislocated workers, as needed, either by the One-Stop operator directly or through contracts with service providers that are approved by the Local Board.

(3) Through the One-Stop system, adults and dislocated workers needing training are provided Individual Training Accounts (ITA's) and access to lists of eligible providers and programs of training. These lists contain quality consumer information, including cost and performance information for each of the providers' programs, so that participants can make informed choices on where to use their ITA's. (ITA's are more fully discussed in subpart D of this part.)
