
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 663 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart C - Training Services
##### ยง 663.320 What are the requirements for coordination of WIA training funds and other grant assistance?

(a) WIA funding for training is limited to participants who:

(1) Are unable to obtain grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of their training; or

(2) Require assistance beyond that available under grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of such training. Program operators and training providers must coordinate funds available to pay for training as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) Program operators must coordinate training funds available and make funding arrangements with One-Stop partners and other entities to apply the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. Training providers must consider the availability of other sources of grants to pay for training costs such as Welfare-to-Work, State-funded training funds, and Federal Pell Grants, so that WIA funds supplement other sources of training grants.

(c) A WIA participant may enroll in WIA-funded training while his/her application for a Pell Grant is pending as long as the One-Stop operator has made arrangements with the training provider and the WIA participant regarding allocation of the Pell Grant, if it is subsequently awarded. In that case, the training provider must reimburse the One-Stop operator the WIA funds used to underwrite the training for the amount the Pell Grant covers. Reimbursement is not required from the portion of Pell Grant assistance disbursed to the WIA participant for education-related expenses. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(B).)
