
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Payments made in anticipation of work.

(4)A payment made toward the cost of a deductible item that the claimant made in any of the 11 months preceding the month he or she started working will be taken into account in determining the claimant's impairment-related work expenses. When an item is paid for in full during the 11 months preceding the month the claiment started working, the payment will be allocated over the 12-consecutive-month period beginning with the month of the payment. However, the only portion of the payment which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for with a one-time payment of $600, the deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). Installment payments (including a downpayment) that the claimant made for a particular item during the 11 months preceding the month he or she started working will be totalled and considered to have been made in the month of the claimant's first payment for that item within this 11-month period. The sum of these payments will be allocated over the 12-consecutive-month period beginning with the month of the claimant's first payment (but never earlier than 11 months before the month work began). However, the only portion of the total which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for in 3 monthly installments of $200 each, the total payment of $600 will be considered to have been made in the month of the first payment, that is, 3 months before the month work began. The deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). The amount, as determined by these formulas, will then be considered to have been paid in the first month of work. The Board will deduct either this entire amount in the first month of work or allocate it over a 12-consecutive-month period, beginning with the first month of work, whichever the claimant selects. In the above examples, the claimant would have the choice of having the entire $450 deducted in the first month of work or having $37.50 a month ($450 divided by 12) deducted for each month that he or she works over a 12-consecutive-month period, beginning with the first month of work. To be deductible, the payments must be for durable items such as medical devices, prostheses, work-related equipment, residential modifications, non-medical appliances and vehicle modifications. Payments for services and expendable items such as drugs, oxygen, diagnostic procedures, medical supplies and vehicle operating costs are not deductible for the purpose of this paragraph.
