
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 663 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart E - Eligible Training Providers
##### ยง 663.515 What is the process for initial determination of provider eligibility?

(a) To be eligible to receive adult or dislocated worker training funds under title I of WIA, all providers must submit applications to the Local Boards in the areas in which they wish to provide services. The application must describe each program of training services to be offered.

(b) For programs eligible under title IV of the Higher Education Act and apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act (NAA), and the providers or such programs, Local Boards determine the procedures to use in making an application. The procedures established by the Local Board must specify the timing, manner, and contents of the required application.

(c) For programs not eligible under title IV of the HEA or registered under the NAA, and for providers not eligible under title IV of the HEA or carrying out apprenticeship programs under NAA:

(1) The Governor must develop a procedure for use by Local Boards for determining the eligibility of other providers, after

(i) Soliciting and taking into consideration recommendations from Local Boards and providers of training services within the State;

(ii) Providing an opportunity for interested members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations, to submit comments on the procedure; and

(iii) Designating a specific time period for soliciting and considering the recommendations of Local Boards and provider, and for providing an opportunity for public comment.

(2) The procedure must be described in the State Plan.

(3)(i) The procedure must require that the provider must submit an application to the Local Board at such time and in such manner as may be required, which contains a description of the program of training services;

(ii) If the provider provides a program of training services on the date of application, the procedure must require that the application include an appropriate portion of the performance information and program cost information described in ยง 663.540, and that the program meet appropriate levels of performance;

(iii) If the provider does not provide a program of training services on that date, the procedure must require that the provider meet appropriate requirements specified in the procedure. (WIA sec. 122(b)(2)(D).)

(d) The Local Board must include providers that meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section on a local list and submit the list to the designated State agency. The State agency has 30 days to determine that the provider or its programs do not meet the requirements relating to the providers under paragraph (c) of this section. After the agency determines that the provider and its programs meet(s) the criteria for initial eligibility, or 30 days have elapsed, whichever occurs first, the provider and its programs are initially eligible. The programs and providers submitted under paragraph (b) of this section are initially eligible without State agency review. (WIA sec. 122(e).)
