
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart L - Substantial Gainful Activity
###### § 220.145 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Limits on deductions.

(f)(1) The Board will deduct the actual amounts the claimant pays towards his or her impairment-related work expenses unless the amounts are unreasonable. With respect to durable medical equipment, prosthetic devices, medical services, and similar medically-related items and services, the Board will apply the prevailing charges under Medicare (Part B of the title XVIII, Health Insurance for the Aged and Disabled) to the extent that this information is readily available. Where the Medicare guides are used, the Board will consider the amount that the claimant pays to be reasonable if it is no more than the prevailing charge for the same item or service under the Medicare guidelines. If the amount the claimant actually pays is more than the prevailing charge for the same item under the Medicare guidelines, the Board will deduct from the claimant's earnings the amount the claimant paid to the extent he or she establishes that the amount is consistent with the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item or service in his or her community. For items and services that are not listed in the Medicare guidelines, and for items and services that are listed in the Medicare guidelines but for which such guides cannot be used because the information is not readily available, the Board will consider the amount the claimant pays to be reasonable if it does not exceed the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item or service in the claimant's community.

(2) Impairment-related work expenses are not deducted in computing the claimant's earnings for purposes of determining whether the claimant's work was "services" as described in § 220.170.

(3) The decision as to whether the claimant performed substantial gainful activity in a case involving impairment-related work expenses for items or services necessary for the claimant to work generally will be based upon the claimant's "earnings" and not on the value of "services" the claimant rendered. (See §§ 220.143 (b)(6)(i) and (ii), and 220.144(a)). This is not necessarily so, however, if the claimant is in a position to control or manipulate his or her earnings.

(4) No deduction will be allowed to the extent that any other source has paid or will pay for an item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that the claimant has been, could be, or will be reimbursed for payments he or she made. (See paragraph (b)(3) of this section.)

(5) The provisions described in the foregoing paragraphs in this section are effective with respect to expenses incurred on or after December 1, 1980, although expenses incurred after November 1980, as a result of contractual or other arrangements entered into before December 1980, are deductible. For months before December 1980, the Board will deduct impairment-related work expenses from the claimant's earnings only to the extent they exceeded the normal work-related expenses the claimant would have had if the claimant did not have his or her impairment(s). The Board will not deduct expenses, however, for those things with the claimant needed even when he or she was not working.
