
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 663 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart F - Priority and Special Populations
##### ยง 663.620 How do the Welfare-to-Work program and the TANF program relate to the One-Stop delivery system?

(a) The local Welfare-to-Work (WtW) program operator is a required partner in the One-Stop delivery system. 20 CFR part 662 describes the roles of such partners in the One-Stop delivery system and applies to the Welfare-to-Work program operator. WtW programs serve individuals who may also be served by the WIA programs and, through appropriate linkages and referrals, these customers will have access to a broader range of services through the cooperation of the WtW program in the One-Stop system. WtW participants, who are determined to be WIA eligible, and who need occupational skills training may be referred through the One-Stop system to receive WIA training, when WtW grant and other grant funds are not available in accordance with ยง 663.320(a). WIA participants who are also determined WtW eligible, may be referred to the WtW operator for job placement and other WtW assistance.

(b) The local TANF agency is specifically suggested under WIA as an additional partner in the One-Stop system. TANF recipients will have access to more information about employment opportunities and services when the TANF agency participates in the One-Stop delivery system. The Governor and Local Board should encourage the TANF agency to become a One-Stop partner to improve the quality of services to the WtW and TANF-eligible populations. In addition, becoming a One-Stop partner will ensure that the TANF agency is represented on the Local Board and participates in developing workforce investment strategies that help cash assistance recipients secure lasting employment.
