
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 665 - STATEWIDE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - Required and Allowable Statewide Workforce Investment Activities
##### ยง 665.210 What are allowable Statewide workforce investment activities?

Allowable Statewide workforce investment activities include:

(a) State administration of the adult, dislocated worker and youth workforce investment activities, consistent with the five percent administrative cost limitation at 20 CFR 667.210(a)(1).

(b) Providing capacity building and technical assistance to local areas, including Local Boards, One-Stop operators, One-Stop partners, and eligible providers, which may include:

(1) Staff development and training; and

(2) The development of exemplary program activities.

(c) Conducting research and demonstrations.

(d) Establishing and implementing:

(1) Innovative incumbent worker training programs, which may include an employer loan program to assist in skills upgrading; and

(2) Programs targeted to Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities.

(e) Providing support to local areas for the identification of eligible training providers.

(f) Implementing innovative programs for displaced homemakers, and programs to increase the number of individuals trained for and placed in non-traditional employment.

(g) Carrying out such adult and dislocated worker employment and training activities as the State determines are necessary to assist local areas in carrying out local employment and training activities.

(h) Carrying out youth activities Statewide.

(i) Preparation and submission to the Secretary of the annual performance progress report as described in 20 CFR 667.300(e). (WIA secs. 129(b)(3) and 134(a)(3).)
