
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 666 - PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - State Measures of Performance
##### ยง 666.100 What performance indicators must be included in a State's plan?

(a) All States submitting a State Plan under WIA title I, subtitle B must propose expected levels of performance for each of the core indicators of performance for the adult, dislocated worker and youth programs, respectively and the two customer satisfaction indicators.

(1) For the Adult program, these indicators are:

(i) Entry into unsubsidized employment;

(ii) Retention in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment;

(iii) Earnings received in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment; and

(iv) Attainment of a recognized credential related to achievement of educational skills (such as a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent), or occupational skills, by participants who enter unsubsidized employment.

(2) For the Dislocated Worker program, these indicators are:

(i) Entry into unsubsidized employment;

(ii) Retention in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment;

(iii) Earnings received in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment; and

(iv) Attainment of a recognized credential related to achievement of educational skills (such as a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent), or occupational skills, by participants who enter unsubsidized employment.

(3) For the Youth program, these indicators are:

(i) For eligible youth aged 14 through 18:

(A) Attainment of basic skills goals, and, as appropriate, work readiness or occupational skills goals, up to a maximum of three goals per year;

(B) Attainment of secondary school diplomas and their recognized equivalents; and

(C) Placement and retention in postsecondary education, advanced training, military service, employment, or qualified apprenticeships.

(ii) For eligible youth aged 19 through 21:

(A) Entry into unsubsidized employment;

(B) Retention in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment;

(C) Earnings received in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment; and

(D) Attainment of a recognized credential related to achievement of educational skills (such as a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent), or occupational skills, by participants who enter post-secondary education, advanced training, or unsubsidized employment.

(4) A single customer satisfaction measure for employers and a single customer satisfaction indicator for participants must be used for the WIA title I, subtitle B programs for adults, dislocated workers and youth. (WIA sec. 136(b)(2).)

(b) After consultation with the representatives identified in WIA sections 136(i) and 502(b), the Departments of Labor and Education will issue definitions for the performance indicators established under title I and title II of WIA. (WIA sec. 136 (b), (f) and (i).)
