
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 666 - PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - State Measures of Performance
##### ยง 666.120 What are the procedures for negotiating annual levels of performance?

(a) We issue instructions on the specific information that must accompany the State Plan and that is used to review the State's expected levels of performance. The instructions may require that levels of performance for years two and three be expressed as a percentage improvement over the immediately preceding year's performance, consistent with the objective of continuous improvement.

(b) States must submit expected levels of performance for the required indicators for each of the first three program years covered by the Plan.

(c) The Secretary and the Governor must reach agreement on levels of performance for each core indicator and the customer satisfaction indicators. In negotiating these levels, the following must be taken into account:

(1) The expected levels of performance identified in the State Plan;

(2) The extent to which the levels of performance for each core indicator assist in achieving high customer satisfaction;

(3) The extent to which the levels of performance promote continuous improvement and ensure optimal return on the investment of Federal funds; and

(4) How the levels compare with those of other States, taking into account factors including differences in economic conditions, participant characteristics, and the proposed service mix and strategies.

(d) The levels of performance agreed to under paragraph (c) of this section will be the State's negotiated levels of performance for the first three years of the State Plan. These levels will be used to determine whether sanctions will be applied or incentive grant funds will be awarded.

(e) Before the fourth year of the State Plan, the Secretary and the Governor must reach agreement on levels of performance for each core indicator and the customer satisfaction indicators for the fourth and fifth years covered by the plan. In negotiating these levels, the factors listed in paragraph (c) of this section must be taken into account.

(f) The levels of performance agreed to under paragraph (e) of this section will be the State negotiated levels of performance for the fourth and fifth years of the plan and must be incorporated into the State Plan.

(g) Levels of performance for the additional indicators developed by the Governor, including additional indicators to demonstrate and measure continuous improvement toward goals identified by the State, are not part of the negotiations described in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section. (WIA sec. 136(b)(3).)

(h) State negotiated levels of performance may be revised in accordance with ยง 666.130.
