
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 666 - PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - Incentives and Sanctions for State Performance
##### ยง 666.240 Under what circumstances may a sanction be applied to a State that fails to achieve negotiated levels of performance for title I?

(a) If a State fails to meet the negotiated levels of performance agreed to under ยง 666.120 for core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for the adult, dislocated worker or youth programs under title I of WIA, the Secretary must, upon request, provide technical assistance, as authorized under WIA sections 136(g) and 170.

(b) If a State fails to meet the negotiated levels of performance for core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for the same program in two successive years, the amount of the succeeding year's allocation for the applicable program may be reduced by up to five percent.

(c) The exact amount of any allocation reduction will be based upon the degree of failure to meet the negotiated levels of performance for core indicators. In making a determination of the amount, if any, of such a sanction, we may consider factors such as:

(1) The State's performance relative to other States;

(2) Improvement efforts underway;

(3) Incremental improvement on the performance measures;

(4) Technical assistance previously provided;

(5) Changes in economic conditions and program design;

(6) The characteristics of participants served compared to the participant characteristics described in the State Plan; and

(7) Performance on other core indicators of performance and customer satisfaction indicators for that program. (WIA sec. 136(g).)

(d) Only performance that is less than 80 percent of the negotiated levels will be deemed to be a failure to achieve negotiated levels of performance.

(e) In accordance with 20 CFR 667.300(e), a State grant may be reduced for failure to submit an annual performance progress report.

(f) A State may request review of a sanction we impose in accordance with the provisions of 20 CFR 667.800.
