
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 666 - PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart D - Incentives and Sanctions for Local Performance
##### ยง 666.420 Under what circumstances may a sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?

(a) If a local area fails to meet the levels of performance agreed to under ยง 666.310 for the core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for a program in any program year, technical assistance must be provided. The technical assistance must be provided by the Governor with funds reserved for Statewide workforce investment activities under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a)(1), or, upon the Governor's request, by the Secretary. The technical assistance may include the development of a performance improvement plan, a modified local plan, or other actions designed to assist the local area in improving performance.

(b) If a local area fails to meet the levels of performance agreed to under ยง 666.310 for the core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for a program for two consecutive program years, the Governor must take corrective actions. The corrective actions may include the development of a reorganization plan under which the Governor:

(1) Requires the appointment and certification of a new Local Board;

(2) Prohibits the use of particular service providers or One-Stop partners that have been identified as achieving poor levels of performance; or

(3) Requires other appropriate measures designed to improve the performance of the local area.

(c) A local area may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise a reorganization plan imposed under paragraph (b) of this section not later than thirty (30) days after receiving notice of the plan. The Governor must make a final decision within 30 days after receipt of the appeal. The Governor's final decision may be appealed by the Local Board to the Secretary under 20 CFR 667.650(b) not later than thirty (30) days after the local area receives the decision. The decision by the Governor to impose a reorganization plan becomes effective at the time it is issued, and remains effective unless the Secretary rescinds or revises the reorganization plan. Upon receipt of the appeal from the local area, the Secretary must make a final decision within thirty (30) days. (WIA sec. 136(h).)
