
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - Funding
##### § 667.135 What "hold harmless" provisions apply to WIA adult and youth allocations?

(a)(1) For the first two fiscal years after the date on which a local area is designated under section 116 of WIA, the State may elect to apply the "hold harmless" provisions specified in paragraph (b) of this section to local area allocations of WIA youth funds under § 667.130(c) and to allocations of WIA adult funds under § 667.130(d).

(2) Effective at the end of the second full fiscal year after the date on which a local area is designated under section 116 of WIA the State must apply the "hold harmless" specified in paragraph (b) of this section to local area allocations of WIA youth funds under § 667.130(c) and to allocations of WIA adult funds under § 667.130(d).

(3) There are no "hold harmless" provisions that apply to local area allocations of WIA dislocated worker funds.

(b)(1) If a State elects to apply a "hold-harmless" under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a local area must not receive an allocation amount for a fiscal year that is less than 90 percent of the average allocation of the local area for the two preceding fiscal years.

(2) In applying the "hold harmless" under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a local area must not receive an allocation amount for a fiscal year that is less than 90 percent of the average allocation of the local area for the two preceding fiscal years.

(3) Amounts necessary to increase allocations to local areas must be obtained by ratably reducing the allocations to be made to other local areas.

(4) If the amounts of WIA funds appropriated in a fiscal year are not sufficient to provide the amount specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to all local areas, the amounts allocated to each local area mustbe ratably reduced. (WIA secs. 128(b)(2)(A)(ii), 133(b)(2)(A)(ii), 506.)
