
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - Funding
##### ยง 667.130 How are WIA title I formula funds allocated to local workforce investment areas?
###### Dislocated worker allocation formula.

(e)(1) The remainder of dislocated worker funds not reserved under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section must be allocated on the basis of a formula prescribed by the Governor that distributes funds in a manner that addresses the State's worker readjustment assistance needs. Funds so distributed must not be less than 60 percent of the State's formula allotment.

(2)(i) The Governor's dislocated worker formula must use the most appropriate information available to the Governor, including information on:

(A) Insured unemployment data,

(B) Unemployment concentrations,

(C) Plant closings and mass layoff data,

(D) Declining industries data,

(E) Farmer-rancher economic hardship data, and

(F) Long-term unemployment data.

(ii) The State Plan must describe the data used for the formula and the weights assigned, and explain the State's decision to use other information or to omit any of the information sources set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) The Governor may not amend the dislocated worker formula more than once for any program year.

(4)(i) Dislocated worker funds initially reserved by the Governor for Statewide rapid response activities in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be:

(A) Distributed to local areas, and

(B) Used to operate projects in local areas in accordance with the requirements of WIA section 134(a)(2)(A) and 20 CFR 665.310 through 665.330.

(ii) The State Plan must describe the procedures for any distribution to local areas, including the timing and process for determining whether a distribution will take place.
