
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - Funding
##### ยง 667.150 What reallotment procedures does the Secretary use?

(a) The first reallotment of funds among States will occur during PY 2001 based on obligations in PY 2000.

(b) The Secretary determines, during the first quarter of the program year, whether a State has obligated its required level of at least 80 percent of the funds allotted under WIA sections 127 and 132 for programs serving youth, adults, and dislocated workers for the prior year, as separately determined for each of the three funding streams. Unobligated balances are determined based on allotments adjusted for any allowable transfer between the adult and dislocated worker funding streams. The amount to be recaptured from each State for reallotment, if any, is based on State obligations of the funds allotted to each State under WIA sections 127 and 132 for programs serving youth, adults, or dislocated workers, less any amount reserved (up to 5 percent at the State level and up to 10 percent at the local level) for the costs of administration. This amount, if any, is separately determined for each funding stream.

(c) The Secretary reallots youth, adult and dislocated worker funds among eligible States in accordance with the provisions of WIA sections 127(c) and 132(c), respectively. To be eligible to receive a reallotment of youth, adult, or dislocated worker funds under the reallotment procedures, a State must have obligated at least 80 percent of the prior program year's allotment, less any amount reserved for the costs of administration of youth, adult, or dislocated worker funds. A State's eligibility to receive a reallotment is separately determined for each funding stream.

(d) The term "obligation" is defined at 20 CFR 660.300. For purposes of this section, the Secretary will also treat as State obligations:

(1) Amounts allocated by the State, under WIA sections 128(b) and 133(b), to the single State local area if the State has been designated as a single local area under WIA section 116(b) or to a balance of State local area administered by a unit of the State government, and

(2) Inter-agency transfers and other actions treated by the State as encumbrances against amounts reserved by the State under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a) for Statewide workforce investment activities.
