
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs and Limitations
##### ยง 667.200 What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of WIA title I funds?
###### Uniform fiscal and administrative requirements.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (6) of this section, State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations that receive grants or cooperative agreements under WIA title I must follow the common rule "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments" which is codified at 29 CFR part 97.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (7) of this section, institutions of higher education, hospitals, other non-profit organizations, and commercial organizations must the follow the common rule implementing OMB Circular A-110 which is codified at 2 CFR part 215 and 29 CFR part 95.

(3) In addition to the requirements at 29 CFR 95.48 or 29 CFR 97.36(i) (as appropriate), all procurement contracts and other transactions between Local Boards and units of State or local governments must be conducted only on a cost reimbursement basis. No provision for profit is allowed. (WIA sec. 184(a)(3)(B).)

(4) In addition to the requirements at 29 CFR 95.42 or 29 CFR 97.36(b)(3) (as appropriate), which address codes of conduct and conflict of interest issues related to employees:

(i) A State Board member or a Local Board member or a Youth Council member must neither cast a vote on, nor participate in any decision-making capacity, on the provision of services by such member (or any organization which that member directly represents), nor on any matter which would provide any direct financial benefit to that member or a member of his immediate family.

(ii) Neither membership on the State Board, the Local Board, the Youth Council nor the receipt of WIA funds to provide training and related services, by itself, violates these conflict of interest provisions.

(5) The addition method, described at 29 CFR 95.24 or 29 CFR 97.25(g)(2) (as appropriate), must be used for the all program income earned under WIA title I grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to the program, the gross amount earned must be added to the WIA program. However, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under the grants when these costs have not been charged to the WIA program.

(6) Any excess of revenue over costs incurred for services provided by a governmental or non-profit entity must be included in program income. (WIA sec. 195(7)(A) and (B).)

(7) Interest income earned on funds received under WIA title I must be included in program income. (WIA sec. 195(7)(B)(iii).)

(8) On a fee-for-service basis, employers may use local area services, facilities, or equipment funded under title I of WIA to provide employment and training activities to incumbent workers:

(i) When the services, facilities, or equipment are not being used by eligible participants;

(ii) If their use does not affect the ability of eligible participants to use the services, facilities, or equipment; and

(iii) If the income generated from such fees is used to carry out programs authorized under this title.
