
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs and Limitations
##### ยง 667.200 What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of WIA title I funds?
###### Allowable costs/cost principles.

(c)All recipients and subrecipients must follow the Federal allowable cost principles that apply to their kind of organizations. The DOL regulations at 29 CFR 95.27 and 29 CFR 97.22 identify the Federal principles for determining allowable costs which each kind of recipient and subrecipient must follow. The applicable Federal principles for each kind of recipient are described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section; all recipients must comply with paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) of this section. For those selected items of cost requiring prior approval, the authority to grant or deny approval is delegated to the Governor for programs funded under sections 127 or 132 of the Act.

(1) Allowable costs for State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments."

(2) Allowable costs for non-profit organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-122, "Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations."

(3) Allowable costs for institutions of higher education must be determined under OMB Circular A-21, "Cost Principles for Educational Institutions."

(4) Allowable costs for hospitals must be determined in accordance under appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, "Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals."

(5) Allowable costs for commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to OMB Circular A-122 must be determined under the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), at 48 CFR part 31.

(6) For all types of entities, legal expenses for the prosecution of claims against the Federal Government, including appeals to an Administrative Law Judge, are unallowable.
