
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart D - Oversight and Monitoring
##### ยง 667.410 What are the oversight roles and responsibilities of recipients and subrecipients?
###### State roles and responsibilities for grants under WIA sections 127 and 132.

(b)(1) The Governor is responsible for the development of the State monitoring system. The Governor must be able to demonstrate, through a monitoring plan or otherwise, that the State monitoring system meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The State monitoring system must:

(i) Provide for annual on-site monitoring reviews of local areas' compliance with DOL uniform administrative requirements, as required by WIA section 184(a)(4);

(ii) Ensure that established policies to achieve program quality and outcomes meet the objectives of the Act and the WIA regulations, including policies relating to: the provision of services by One-Stop Centers; eligible providers of training services; and eligible providers of youth activities;

(iii) Enable the Governor to determine if subrecipients and contractors have demonstrated substantial compliance with WIA requirements; and

(iv) Enable the Governor to determine whether a local plan will be disapproved for failure to make acceptable progress in addressing deficiencies, as required in WIA section 118(d)(1).

(v) Enable the Governor to ensure compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements of WIA section 188 and 29 CFR part 37. Requirements for these aspects of the monitoring system are set forth in 29 CFR 37.54(d)(2)(ii).

(3) The State must conduct an annual on-site monitoring review of each local area's compliance with DOL uniform administrative requirements, including the appropriate administrative requirements for subrecipients and the applicable cost principles indicated at ยง 667.200 for all entities receiving WIA title I funds.

(4) The Governor must require that prompt corrective action be taken if any substantial violation of standards identified in paragraphs (b) (2) or (3) of this section is found. (WIA sec. 184(a)(5).)

(5) The Governor must impose the sanctions provided in WIA section 184 (b) and (c) in the event of a subrecipient's failure to take required corrective action required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(6) The Governor may issue additional requirements and instructions to subrecipients on monitoring activities.

(7) The Governor must certify to the Secretary every two years that:

(i) The State has implemented uniform administrative requirements;

(ii) The State has monitored local areas to ensure compliance with uniform administrative requirements; and

(iii) The State has taken appropriate corrective action to secure such compliance. (WIA sec. 184(a)(6)(A), (B), and (C).)
