
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart E - Resolution of Findings From Monitoring and Oversight Reviews
##### ยง 667.510 What is the Grant Officer resolution process?
###### Grant Officer's final determination.

(d)(1) If the matter is not fully resolved informally, the Grant Officer provides each party with a written final determination by certified mail, return receipt requested. For audits of recipient-level entities and other recipients which receive WIA funds directly from DOL, ordinarily, the final determination is issued not later than 180 days from the date that the Office of Inspector General (OIG) issues the final approved audit report to the Employment and Training Administration. For audits of subrecipients conducted by the OIG, ordinarily the final determination is issued not later than 360 days from the date the OIG issues the final approved audit report to ETA.

(2) A final determination under this paragraph (d) must:

(i) Indicate whether efforts to informally resolve matters contained in the initial determination have been unsuccessful;

(ii) List those matters upon which the parties continue to disagree;

(iii) List any modifications to the factual findings and conclusions set forth in the initial determination and the rationale for such modifications;

(iv) Establish a debt, if appropriate;

(v) Require corrective action, when needed;

(vi) Determine liability, method of restitution of funds and sanctions; and

(vii) Offer an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with ยง 667.800 of this part.

(3) Unless a hearing is requested, a final determination under this paragraph (d) is final agency action and is not subject to further review.

(e) Nothing in this subpart precludes the Grant Officer from issuing an initial determination and/or final determination directly to a subrecipient, in accordance with section 184(d)(3) of the Act. In such a case, the Grant Officer will inform the recipient of this action.
