
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart F - Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
##### § 667.610 What processes do we use to review State and local grievances and complaints?

(a) We investigate allegations arising through the grievance procedures described in § 667.600 when:

(1) A decision on a grievance or complaint under § 667.600(d) has not been reached within 60 days of receipt of the grievance or complaint or within 60 days of receipt of the request for appeal of a local level grievance and either party appeals to the Secretary; or

(2) A decision on a grievance or complaint under § 667.600(d) has been reached and the party to which such decision is adverse appeals to the Secretary.

(b) We must make a final decision on an appeal under paragraph (a) of this section no later than 120 days after receiving the appeal.

(c) Appeals made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be filed within 60 days of the receipt of the decision being appealed. Appeals made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be filed within 120 days of the filing of the grievance with the State, or the filing of the appeal of a local grievance with the State. All appeals must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the appropriate ETA Regional Administrator and the opposing party.

(d) Except for complaints arising under WIA section 184(f) or section 188, grievances or complaints made directly to the Secretary will be referred to the appropriate State or local area for resolution in accordance with this section, unless we notify the parties that the Department of Labor will investigate the grievance under the procedures at § 667.505. Discrimination complaints brought under WIA section 188 or 29 CFR part 37 will be referred to the Director of the Civil Rights Center.
