
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart F - Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
##### ยง 667.650 What procedures apply to the appeals of the Governor's imposition of sanctions for substantial violations or performance failures by a local area?

(a) A local area which has been found in substantial violation of WIA title I, and has received notice from the Governor that either all or part of the local plan will be revoked or that a reorganization will occur, may appeal such sanctions to the Secretary under WIA section 184(b). The sanctions do not become effective until:

(1) The time for appeal has expired; or

(2) The Secretary has issued a decision.

(b) A local area which has failed to meet local performance measures for two consecutive years, and has received the Governor's notice of intent to impose a reorganization plan, may appeal such sanctions to the Secretary under WIA section 136(h)(1)(B).

(c) Appeals made under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the revoked plan or imposed reorganization, and must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.

(d) The Secretary may consider any comments submitted in response by the Governor.

(e) The Secretary will notify the Governor and the appellant in writing of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (a) of this section within 45 days after receipt of the appeal. The Secretary will notify the Governor and the appellant in writing of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (b) of this section within 30 days after receipt of the appeal.
