
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart G - Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
##### ยง 667.740 What procedure must be used for administering the offset/deduction provisions at section 184(c) of the Act?

(a)(1) For recipient level misexpenditures, we may determine that a debt, or a portion thereof, may be offset against amounts that are allotted to the recipient. Recipients must submit a written request for an offset to the Grant Officer. Generally, we will apply the offset against amounts that are available at the recipient level for administrative costs.

(2) The Grant Officer may approve an offset request, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the misexpenditures were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of the Act and regulations, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure.

(b) For subrecipient level misexpenditures that were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of the Act and regulations, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure, if we have required the State to repay such amount the State may deduct an amount equal to the misexpenditure from its subsequent year's allocations to the local area from funds available for the administrative costs of the local programs involved.

(c) If offset is granted, the debt will not be fully satisfied until the Grant Officer reduces amounts allotted to the State by the amount of the misexpenditure.

(d) A State may not make a deduction under paragraph (b) of this section until the State has taken appropriate corrective action to ensure full compliance within the local area with regard to appropriate expenditure of WIA funds.
