
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 667 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart H - Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
##### ยง 667.800 What actions of the Department may be appealed to the Office of Administrative Law Judges?

(a) An applicant for financial assistance under title I of WIA which is dissatisfied because we have issued a determination not to award financial assistance, in whole or in part, to such applicant; or a recipient, subrecipient, or a vendor against which the Grant Officer has directly imposed a sanction or corrective action, including a sanction against a State under 20 CFR part 666, may appeal to the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) within 21 days of receipt of the final determination.

(b) Failure to request a hearing within 21 days of receipt of the final determination constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.

(c) A request for a hearing under this subpart must state specifically those issues in the final determination upon which review is requested. Those provisions of the final determination not specified for review, or the entire final determination when no hearing has been requested within the 21 days, are considered resolved and not subject to further review. Only alleged violations of the Act, its regulations, grant or other agreement under the Act fairly raised in the determination, and the request for hearing are subject to review.

(d) A request for a hearing must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, with one copy to the Departmental official who issued the determination.

(e) The procedures in this subpart apply in the case of a complainant who has not had a dispute adjudicated under the alternative dispute resolution process set forth in ยง 667.840 within the 60 days, except that the request for hearing before the OALJ must be filed within 15 days of the conclusion of the 60-day period provided in ยง 667.840. In addition to including the final determination upon which review is requested, the complainant must include a copy of any Stipulation of Facts and a brief summary of proceedings.
