
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart A - Purposes and Policies
##### ยง 668.120 How must INA programs be administered?

(a) We will administer INA programs to maximize the Federal commitment to support the growth and development of Native American people and communities as determined by representatives of such communities.

(b) In administering these programs, we will observe the Congressional declaration of policy set forth in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, at 25 U.S.C. section 450a, as well as the Department of Labor's "American Indian and Alaska Native Policy," dated July 29, 1998.

(c) The regulations in this part are not intended to abrogate the trust responsibilities of the Federal Government to Native American bands, tribes, or groups in any way.

(d) We will administer INA programs through a single organizational unit and consistent with the requirements in section 166(h) of the Act. We have designated the Division of Indian and Native American Programs (DINAP) within the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) as this single organizational unit required by WIA section 166(h)(1).

(e) We will establish and maintain administrative procedures for the selection, administration, monitoring, and evaluation of Native American employment and training programs authorized under this Act. We will utilize staff who have a particular competence in this field to administer these programs. (WIA sec. 166(h).)
