
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart C - Services to Customers
##### ยง 668.350 Are there any restrictions on allowable activities?

(a) All occupational training must be for occupations for which there are employment opportunities in the local area or another area to which the participant is willing to relocate. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(A)(iii).)

(b) INA grantees must provide OJT services consistent with the definition provided in WIA section 101(31) and other limitations in the Act. Individuals in OJT must:

(1) Be compensated at the same rates, including periodic increases, as trainees or employees who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience, and skills (WIA sec. 181(a)(1)); and

(2) Be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work. (WIA sec. 181(b)(5).)

(c) In addition, OJT contracts under this title must not be entered into with employers who have:

(1) Received payments under previous contracts and have exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued, long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same work; or

(2) Who have violated paragraphs (b)(1) and/or (2) of this section. (WIA sec. 195(4).)

(d) INA grantees are prohibited from using funds to encourage the relocation of a business, as described in WIA section 181(d) and 20 CFR 667.268.

(e) INA grantees must only use WIA funds for activities which are in addition to those that would otherwise be available to the Native American population in the area in the absence of such funds. (WIA sec. 195(2).)

(f) INA grantees must not spend funds on activities that displace currently employed individuals, impair existing contracts for services, or in any way affect union organizing.

(g) Under 20 CFR 667.266, sectarian activities involving WIA financial assistance or participants are limited in accordance with the provisions of 29 CFR 37.6(f). (WIA sec. 181(b).)
