
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart B - Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
##### ยง 668.296 How are WIA funds allocated to INA grantees?

(a) Except for reserved funds described in paragraph (e) of this section and funds used for program purposes under ยง 668.294, all funds available for WIA section 166(d)(2)(A)(i) comprehensive workforce investment services program at the beginning of a Program Year will be allocated to Native American grantees for their designated geographic service areas.

(b) Each INA grantee will receive the sum of the funds calculated under the following formula:

(1) One-quarter of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of unemployed Native American persons in the grantee's designated INA service area(s) compared to all such persons in all such areas in the United States.

(2) Three-quarters of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of Native American persons in poverty in the grantee's designated INA service area(s) as compared to all such persons in all such areas in the United States.

(3) The data and definitions used to implement these formulas is provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

(c) In years immediately following the use of new data in the formula described in paragraph (b) of this section, based upon criteria to be described in the SGA, we may utilize a hold harmless factor to reduce the disruption in grantee services which would otherwise result from changes in funding levels. This factor will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.

(d) We may reallocate funds from one INA grantee to another if a grantee is unable to serve its area for any reason, such as audit or debt problems, criminal activity, internal (political) strife, or lack of ability or interest. Funds may also be reallocated if a grantee has carry-in excess of 20 percent of the total funds available to it. Carry-in amounts greater than 20 percent but less than 25 percent of total funds available may be allowed under an approved waiver issued by DINAP.

(e) We may reserve up to one percent (1 percent) of the funds appropriated under WIA section 166(d)(2)(A)(i) for any Program Year for TAT purposes. Technical assistance will be provided in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council.
