
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart F - Accountability for Services and Expenditures
##### ยง 668.610 How is this accountability documented and fulfilled?

(a) Each INA grantee must establish its own internal policies and procedures to ensure accountability to the INA grantee's governing body, as the representative of the Native American community(ies) served by the INA program. At a minimum, these policies and procedures must provide a system for governing body review and oversight of program plans and measures and standards for program performance.

(b) Accountability to the Department is accomplished in part through on-site program reviews (monitoring), which strengthen the INA grantee's capability to deliver effective services and protect the integrity of Federal funds.

(c) In addition to audit information, as described at ยง 668.850 and program reviews, accountability to the Department is documented and fulfilled by the submission of reports. For the purposes of report submission, a postmark or date indicating receipt by a private express delivery service is acceptable proof of timely submission. These report requirements are as follows:

(1) Each INA grantee must submit an annual report on program participants and activities. This report must be received no later than 90 days after the end of the Program Year, and may be combined with the report on program expenditures. The reporting format is developed by DINAP, in consultation with the Native American Advisory Council, and published in the

(2) Each INA grantee must submit an annual report on program expenditures. This report must be received no later than 90 days after the end of the Program Year, and may be combined with the report on program participants and activities.

(3) INA grantees are encouraged, but not required, to submit a descriptive narrative with their annual reports describing the barriers to successful plan implementation they have encountered. This narrative should also discuss program successes and other notable occurrences that effected the INA grantee's overall performance that year.

(4) Each INA grantee may be required to submit interim reports on program participants and activities and/or program expenditures during the Program Year. Interim reports must be received no later than 45 days after the end of the reporting period.
