
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart D - Supplemental Youth Services
##### § 668.440 How is funding for supplemental youth services determined?

(a) Beginning with PY 2000, supplemental youth funding will be allocated to eligible INA grantees on the basis of the relative number of Native American youth between the ages of 14 and 21, inclusive, in the grantee's designated INA service area as compared to the number of Native American youth in other eligible INA service areas. We reserve the right to redetermine this youth funding stream in future program years, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, as program experience warrants and as appropriate data become available.

(b) The data used to implement this formula is provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

(c) The hold harmless factor described in § 668.296(c) also applies to supplemental youth services funding. This factor also will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.

(d) The reallocation provisions of § 668.296(d) also apply to supplemental youth services funding.

(e) Any supplemental youth services funds not allotted to a grantee or refused by a grantee may be used for the purposes outlined in § 668.296(e), as described in § 668.294. Any such funds are in addition to, and not subject to the limitations on, amounts reserved under § 668.296(e).
