
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart G - Section 166 Planning/Funding Process
##### ยง 668.720 What information must these planning documents contain?

(a) The comprehensive services plan must cover the two Program Years included within a designation cycle. According to planning instructions issued by the Department, the comprehensive services plan must describe in narrative form:

(1) The specific goals of the INA grantee's program for the two Program Years involved;

(2) The method the INA grantee will use to target its services to specific segments of its service population;

(3) The array of services which the INA grantee intends to make available;

(4) The system the INA grantee will use to be accountable for the results of its program services. Such results must be judged in terms of the outcomes for individual participants and/or the benefits the program provides to the Native American community(ies) which the INA grantee serves. Plans must include the performance information required by ยง 668.620;

(5) The ways in which the INA grantee will seek to integrate or coordinate and ensure nonduplication of its employment and training services with:

(i) The One-Stop delivery system in its local workforce investment area, including a description of any MOU's which affect the grantee's participation;

(ii) Other services provided by Local Workforce Investment Boards;

(iii) Other program operators;

(iv) Other services available within the grantee organization; and

(v) Other services which are available to Native Americans in the community, including planned participation in the One-Stop system.

(b) Eligible INA grantees must include in their plan narratives a description of activities planned under the supplemental youth program, including items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(c) INA grantees must be prepared to justify the amount of proposed Administrative Costs, utilizing the definition at 20 CFR 667.220.

(d) INA grantees' plans must contain a projection of participant services and expenditures for each Program Year, consistent with guidance issued by the Department.
