
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 668 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart F - Accountability for Services and Expenditures
##### ยง 668.630 What are the requirements for preventing fraud and abuse under section 166?

(a) Each INA grantee must implement program and financial management procedures to prevent fraud and abuse. Such procedures must include a process which enables the grantee to take action against contractors or subgrantees to prevent any misuse of funds. (WIA sec. 184.)

(b) Each INA grantee must have rules to prevent conflict of interest by its governing body. These conflict of interest rules must include a rule prohibiting any member of any governing body or council associated with the INA grantee from voting on any matter which would provide a direct financial benefit to that member, or to a member of his or her immediate family, in accordance with 20 CFR 667.200(a)(4) and 29 CFR 97.36(b) or 29 CFR 95.42.

(c) Officers or agents of the INA grantee must not solicit or personally accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from any actual or potential contractor, subgrantee, vendor or participant. This rule must also apply to officers or agents of the grantee's contractors and/or subgrantees. This prohibition does not apply to:

(1) Any rebate, discount or similar incentive provided by a vendor to its customers as a regular feature of its business;

(2) Items of nominal monetary value distributed consistent with the cultural practices of the Native American community served by the grantee.

(d) No person who selects program participants or authorizes the services provided to them may select or authorize services to any participant who is such a person's husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister, son, or daughter unless:

(1)(i) The participant involved is a low income individual; or

(ii) The community in which the participant resides has a population of less than 1,000 Native American people; and

(2) The INA grantee has adopted and implemented the policy described in the Two Year Plan to prevent favoritism on behalf of such relatives.

(e) INA grantees are subject to the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 53 relating to kickbacks.

(f) No assistance provided under this Act may involve political activities. (WIA sec. 195(6).)

(g) INA grantees may not use funds under this Act for lobbying, as provided in 29 CFR part 93.

(h) The provisions of 18 U.S.C. 665 and 666 prohibiting embezzlement apply to programs under WIA.

(i) Recipients of financial assistance under WIA section 168 are prohibited from discriminatory practices as outlined at WIA section 188, and the regulations implementing WIA section 188, at 29 CFR part 37. However, this does not affect the legal requirement that all INA participants be Native American. Also, INA grantees are not obligated to serve populations other than those for which they were designated.
