
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart O - Continuing or Stopping Disability Due to Substantial Gainful Activity or Medical Improvement
###### ยง 220.177 Terms and definitions.
####### Functional capacity to do basic work activities.,i.e.,

(d)(1) Under the law, disability is defined, in part, as the inability to do any regular employment by reason of a physical or mental impairment(s). "Regular employment" is defined in this part as "substantial gainful activity." In determining whether the annuitant is disabled under the law, the Board will measure, therefore, how and to what extent the annuitant's impairment(s) has affected his or her ability to do work. The Board does this by looking at how the annuitant's functional capacity for doing basic work activities has been affected. Basic work activities means the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Included are exertional abilities such as walking, standing, pushing, pulling, reaching and carrying, and non-exertional abilities and aptitudes such as seeing, hearing, speaking, remembering, using judgment, dealing with changes in a work setting and dealing with both supervisors and fellow workers. The annuitant who has no impairment(s) would be able to do all basic work activities at normal levels; he or she would have an unlimited functional capacity to do basic work activities. Depending on its nature and severity, an impairment(s) will result in some limitation to the functional capacity to do one or more of these basic work activities. Diabetes, for example, can result in circulatory problems which could limit the length of time the annuitant could stand or walk and can result in damage to his or her eyes as well, so that the annuitant also had limited vision. What the annuitant can still do, despite his or her impairment(s), is called his or her residual functional capacity. How the residual functional capacity is assessed is discussed in more detail in ยง 220.120. Unless an impairment is so severe that it is deemed to prevent the annuitant from doing substantial gainful activity (the impairment(s) is medically disabling), it is this residual functional capacity that is used to determine whether the annuitant can still do his or her past work or, in conjunction with his or her age, education and work experience, do any other work.

(2) A decrease in the severity of an impairment as measured by changes (improvement) in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings can, if great enough, result in an increase in the functional capacity to do work activities. Vascular surgery (e.g., femoropopliteal bypass) may sometimes reduce the severity of the circulatory complications of diabetes so that better circulation results and the annuitant can stand or walk for longer periods. When new evidence showing a change in medical findings establishes that both medical improvement has occurred and the annuitant's functional capacity to perform basic work activities, or residual functional capacity, has increased, the Board will find that medical improvement which is related to the annuitant's ability to do work has occurred. A residual functional capacity assessment is also used to determine whether an annuitant can engage in substantial gainful activity and, thus, whether he or she continues to be disabled (see paragraph (e) of this section).

(3) Many impairment-related factors must be considered in assessing an annuitant's functional capacity for basic work activities. Age is one key factor. Medical literature shows that there is a gradual decrease in organ function with age; that major losses and deficits become irreversible over time and that maximum exercise performance diminishes with age. Other changes related to sustained periods of inactivity and the aging process include muscle atrophy, degenerative joint changes, decrease in range of motion, and changes in the cardiac and respiratory systems which limit the exertional range.

(4) Studies have also shown that the longer the annuitant is away from the workplace and is inactive, the more difficult it becomes to return to ongoing gainful employment. In addition, a gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after about 15 years, it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in these jobs will continue to apply to the current workplace. Thus, if the annuitant is age 50 or over and had been receiving a disability annuity for a considerable period of time, the Board will consider this factor along with his or her age in assessing the residual functional capacity. This will ensure that the disadvantages resulting from inactivity and the aging process during a longer period of disability will be considered. In some instances where available evidence does not resolve what the annuitant can or cannot do on a sustained basis, the Board may provide special work evaluations or other appropriate testing.
