
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 670 - THE JOB CORPS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart C - Funding and Selection of Service Providers
##### ยง 670.310 How are entities selected to receive funding?

(a) The Secretary selects eligible entities to operate contract centers and operational support service providers on a competitive basis in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 unless section 303 (c) and (d) of that Act apply. In selecting an entity, Job Corps issues requests for proposals (RFP) for the operation of all contract centers and for provision of operational support services according to Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) and DOL Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 29). Job Corps develops RFP's for center operators in consultation with the Governor, the center industry council (if established), and the Local Board for the workforce investment area in which the center is located.

(b) The RFP for each contract center and each operational support service contract describes uniform specifications and standards, as well as specifications and requirements that are unique to the operation of the specific center or to the specific required operational support services.

(c) The Contracting Officer selects and funds Job Corps contract center operators on the basis of an evaluation of the proposals received using criteria established by the Secretary, and set forth in the RFP. The criteria include the following:

(1) The offeror's ability to coordinate the activities carried out through the Job Corps center with activities carried out under the appropriate State and local workforce investment plans;

(2) The degree to which the offeror proposes vocational training that reflects employment opportunities in the local areas in which most of the students intend to seek employment;

(3) The degree to which the offeror is familiar with the surrounding community, including the applicable One-Stop Centers, and the State and region in which the center is located; and

(4) The offeror's past performance.

(d) The Contracting Officer selects and funds operational support service contractors on the basis of an evaluation of the proposals received using criteria established by the Secretary and set forth in the RFP.

(e) The Secretary enters into interagency agreements with Federal agencies for the funding, establishment, and operation of CCC's which include provisions to ensure that the Federal agencies comply with the regulations under this part.
