
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 670 - THE JOB CORPS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
#### Subpart H - Community Connections
##### ยง 670.800 How do Job Corps centers and service providers become involved in their local communities?

(a) Job Corps representatives serve on Youth Councils operating under applicable Local Boards wherever geographically feasible.

(b) Each Job Corps center must have a Business and Community Liaison designated by the director of the center to establish relationships with local and distant employers, applicable One-Stop centers and local boards, and members of the community according to procedures established by the Secretary. (WIA sec. 153(a).)

(c) Each Job Corps center must implement an active community relations program.

(d) Each Job Corps center must establish an industry advisory council, according to procedures established by the Secretary. The industry advisory council must include:

(1) Distant and local employers;

(2) Representatives of labor organizations (where present) and employees; and

(3) Job Corps students and graduates.

(e) A majority of the council members must be local and distant business owners, chief executives or chief operating officers of nongovernmental employers or other private sector employers, who have substantial management, hiring or policy responsibility and who represent businesses with employment opportunities in the local area and the areas to which students will return.

(f) The council must work with Local Boards and must review labor market information to provide recommendations to the Secretary regarding the center's vocational training offerings, including identification of emerging occupations suitable for training. (WIA sec.154(b)(1).)

(g) Job Corps is identified as a required One-Stop partner. Wherever practicable, Job Corps centers and operational support contractors must establish cooperative relationships and partnerships with One-Stop centers and other One-Stop partners, Local Boards, and other programs for youth.
