
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 672 - PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM
#### Subpart A - Purpose and Definitions
##### ยง 672.105 What are the purposes of the YouthBuild program?

(a) The overarching goal of the YouthBuild program is to provide disadvantaged and low-income youth the opportunity to obtain education and employment skills in local in-demand and high-demand jobs to achieve economic self-sufficiency. Additionally, the YouthBuild program has as goals:

(1) To promote leadership skills development and community service activities. YouthBuild programs will foster the development of leadership skills and a commitment to community improvement among youth in low-income communities.

(2) To enable youth to further their education and training. YouthBuild programs will provide counseling and assistance in obtaining post-secondary education and/or employment and training placements that allow youth to further their education and training.

(3) To expand the supply of permanent affordable housing and reduce the rate of homelessness in communities with YouthBuild programs. The program seeks to increase the number of affordable housing units available and to decrease the number of homeless individuals and families in their communities.

(b) Through these educational and occupational opportunities, to enable youth participants to provide a valuable contribution to their communities. The YouthBuild program will add skilled workers to the workforce by educating and training youth who might have otherwise succumbed to the negative influences within their environments.
