
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 675 - INTRODUCTION TO THE REGULATIONS FOR THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### ยง 675.200 What do the regulations for workforce development systems under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act cover?

(a) The regulations found in parts 675 through 688 of this chapter set forth the regulatory requirements that are applicable to programs operated with funds provided under title I of WIOA. This part describes the purpose of that Act, explains the format of these regulations, and sets forth definitions for terms that apply to each part. Parts 676, 677 and 678 of this chapter contain regulations relating to Unified and Combined State Plans, performance accountability, and the one-stop delivery system and the roles of one-stop partners, respectively. Part 679 of this chapter contains regulations relating to statewide and local governance of the workforce development system. Part 680 of this chapter sets forth requirements applicable to WIOA title I programs serving adults and dislocated workers. Part 681 of this chapter sets forth requirements applicable to WIOA title I programs serving youth. Part 682 of this chapter contains regulations relating to statewide activities. Part 683 of this chapter sets forth the administrative requirements applicable to programs funded under WIOA title I. Parts 684 and 685 of this chapter contain the particular requirements applicable to programs serving Indians and Native Americans and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers, respectively. Parts 686 and 687 of this chapter describe the particular requirements applicable to the Job Corps and the national dislocated worker grant programs, respectively. Part 688 of this chapter contains the regulations governing the YouthBuild program. In addition, part 603 of this chapter provides the requirements regarding confidentiality and disclosure of State Unemployment Compensation program data under WIOA.

(b) Finally, parts 651 through 658 of this chapter address provisions for the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service, as amended by WIOA title III. Specifically, part 651 of this chapter contains general provisions and definitions of terms used in parts 651 through 658 of this chapter; part 652 of this chapter establishes the State Employment Service and describes its operation and services; part 653 of this chapter describes employment services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers and the role of the State Monitor Advocate; part 654 of this chapter addresses the special responsibilities of the Employment Service regarding housing for farmworkers; and part 658 of this chapter contains the administrative provisions that apply to the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service.

(c) Title 29 CFR part 38 contains the Department's nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188.
