
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 677 - PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Local Performance Accountability for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
##### ยง 677.210 How are local performance levels established?

(a) The objective statistical adjustment model required under sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(viii) of WIOA and described in ยง 677.170(c) must be:

(1) Applied to the core programs' primary indicators upon availability of data which are necessary to populate the model and apply the model to the local core programs;

(2) Used in order to reach agreement on local negotiated levels of performance for the upcoming program year; and

(3) Used to establish adjusted levels of performance at the end of a program year based on actual conditions, consistent with WIOA sec. 116(c)(3).

(b) Until all indicators for the core program in a local area have at least 2 years of complete data, the comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted levels of performance for each of the primary indicators only will be applied where there are at least 2 years of complete data for that program.

(c) The Governor, Local Workforce Development Board (WDB), and chief elected official must reach agreement on local negotiated levels of performance based on a negotiations process before the start of a program year with the use of the objective statistical model described in paragraph (a) of this section. The negotiations will include a discussion of circumstances not accounted for in the model and will take into account the extent to which the levels promote continuous improvement. The objective statistical model will be applied at the end of the program year based on actual economic conditions and characteristics of the participants served.

(d) The negotiations process described in paragraph (c) of this section must be developed by the Governor and disseminated to all Local WDBs and chief elected officials.

(e) The Local WDBs may apply performance measures to service providers that differ from the performance indicators that apply to the local area. These performance measures must be established after considering:

(1) The established local negotiated levels;

(2) The services provided by each provider; and

(3) The populations the service providers are intended to serve.
