
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Subpart O - Continuing or Stopping Disability Due to Substantial Gainful Activity or Medical Improvement
###### § 220.180 Determining continuation or cessation of disability.
####### Evaluation steps.

To assure that disability reviews are carried out in a uniform manner, that decisions of continuing disability can be made in the most expeditious and administratively efficient way, and that any decisions to stop a disability annuity are made objectively, neutrally and are fully documented, the Board will follow specific steps in reviewing the question of whether an annuitant's disability continues. The Board's review may cease and the disability may be continued at any point if the Board determines that there is sufficient evidence to find that the annuitant is still unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. The steps are-

(a) Is the annuitant engaging in substantial gainful activity? If he or she is (and any applicable trial work period has been completed), the Board will find disability to have ended (see § 220.179(a)(5));

(b) If the annuitant is not engaging in substantial gainful activity, does he or she have an impairment or combination of impairments which is medically disabling? If the annuitant's impairment(s) is medically disabling, his or her disability will be found to continue;

(c) If the annuitant's impairment(s) is not medically disabling, has there been medical improvement as defined in § 220.177(a)? If there has been medical improvement as shown by a decrease in medical severity, see step (d). If there has been no decrease in medical severity, then there has been no medical improvement; (See step (e));

(d) If there has been medical improvement, the Board must determine whether it is related to the annuitant's ability to do work in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of § 220.177, (i.e., whether or not there has been an increase in the residual functional capacity based on the impairment(s) that was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical determination). If medical improvement is not related to the annuitant's ability to do work, see step (e). If medical improvement is related to the annuitant's ability to do work, see step (f);

(e) If the Board found at step (c) that there has been no medical improvement or if it found at step (d) that the medical improvement is not related to the annuitant's ability to work, the Board considers whether any of the exceptions in § 220.178 apply. If none of them apply, disability will be found to continue. If one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, see step (f). If an exception from the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, disability will be found to have ended. The second group of exceptions to medical improvement may be considered at any point in this process;

(f) If medical improvement is shown to be related to the annuitant's ability to do work or if one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, the Board will determine whether all of the annuitant's current impairments in combination are severe. This determination will consider all current impairments and the impact of the combination of those impairments on the ability to function. If the residual functional capacity assessment in step (d) above shows significant limitation of ability to do basic work activities, see step (g). When the evidence shows that all current impairments in combination do not significantly limit physical or mental abilities to do basic work activities, these impairments will not be considered severe in nature, and the annuitant will no longer be consider to be disabled;

(g) If the annuitant's impairment(s) is severe, the Board will assess his or her current ability to engage in substantial gainful activity. That is, the Board will assess the annuitant's residual functional capacity based on all of his or her current impairments and consider whether he or she can still do work that was done in the past. If he or she can do such work, disability will be found to have ended; and

(h) If the annuitant is not able to do work he or she has done in the past, the Board will consider one final step. Given the residual functional capacity assessment and considering the annuitant's age, education and past work experience, can he or she do other work? If the annuitant can do other work, disability will be found to have ended. If he or she cannot do other work, disability will be found to continue.
