
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 677 - PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart E - Eligible Training Provider Performance for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
##### § 677.230 What information is required for the eligible training provider performance reports?

(a) States are required to make available and publish annually using a template the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate including through electronic means, the ETP performance reports for ETPs who provide services under sec. 122 of WIOA that are described in §§ 680.400 through 680.530 of this chapter. These reports at a minimum must include, consistent with § 677.175 and with respect to each program of study that is eligible to receive funds under WIOA:

(1) The total number of participants as defined by § 677.150(a) who received training services under the adult and dislocated worker programs authorized under WIOA title I for the most recent year and the 3 preceding program years, including:

(i) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by barriers to employment;

(ii) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, and age;

(iii) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by the type of training entity for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years;

(2) The total number of participants who exit a program of study or its equivalent, including disaggregate counts by the type of training entity during the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years;

(3) The average cost-per-participant for participants who received training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years disaggregated by type of training entity;

(4) The total number of individuals exiting from the program of study (or the equivalent) with respect to all individuals engaging in the program of study (or the equivalent); and

(5) The levels of performance achieved for the primary indicators of performance identified in § 677.155(a)(1)(i) through (iv) with respect to all individuals engaging in a program of study (or the equivalent).

(b) Apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act are not required to submit ETP performance information. If a registered apprenticeship program voluntarily submits performance information to a State, the State must include this information in the report.

(c) The State must provide a mechanism of electronic access to the public ETP performance report in its annual State performance report.

(d) States must comply with any requirements from sec. 116(d)(4) of WIOA as explained in guidance issued by DOL.

(e) The Governor may designate one or more State agencies such as a State Education Agency or other State Educational Authority to assist in overseeing ETP performance and facilitating the production and dissemination of ETP performance reports. These agencies may be the same agencies that are designated as responsible for administering the ETP list as provided under § 680.500 of this chapter. The Governor or such agencies, or authorities, is responsible for:

(1) Facilitating data matches between ETP records and unemployment insurance (UI) wage data in order to produce the report;

(2) The creation and dissemination of the reports as described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section;

(3) Coordinating the dissemination of the performance reports with the ETP list and the information required to accompany the list, as provided in § 680.500 of this chapter.
