
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart E - Compensation and Related Benefits
###### Adjustments to Compensation
####### ยง 10.421 May a beneficiary receive other kinds of payments from the Federal Government concurrently with compensation?

(a) 5 U.S.C. 8116(a) provides that a beneficiary may not receive wage-loss compensation concurrently with a Federal retirement or survivor annuity. The beneficiary must elect the benefit that he or she wishes to receive, and the election, once made, is revocable.

(b) An employee may receive compensation concurrently with military retired pay, retirement pay, retainer pay or equivalent pay for service in the Armed Forces or other uniformed services.

(c) An employee may not receive compensation for total disability concurrently with severance pay or separation pay. However, an employee may concurrently receive compensation for partial disability or permanent impairment to a schedule member, organ or function with severance pay or separation pay.

(d) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8116(d), a beneficiary may receive compensation under the FECA for either the death or disability of an employee concurrently with benefits under title II of the Social Security Act on account of the age or death of such employee. However, this provision of the FECA also requires OWCP to reduce the amount of any such compensation by the amount of any Social Security Act benefits that are attributable to the Federal service of the employee.

(e) To determine the employee's entitlement to compensation, OWCP may require an employee to submit an affidavit or statement as to the receipt of any Federally funded or Federally assisted benefits. If an employee fails to submit such affidavit or statement within 30 days of the date of the request, his or her right to compensation shall be suspended until such time as the requested affidavit or statement is received. At that time compensation will be reinstated retroactive to the date of suspension provided the employee is entitled to such compensation.
