
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 678 - DESCRIPTION OF THE ONE-STOP DELIVERY SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart E - One-Stop Operating Costs
##### ยง 678.720 What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the local one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?

(a) In the local funding mechanism, one-stop partner programs may determine what funds they will use to pay for infrastructure costs. The use of these funds must be in accordance with the requirements in this subpart, and with the relevant partner's authorizing statutes and regulations, including, for example, prohibitions against supplanting non-Federal resources, statutory limitations on administrative costs, and all other applicable legal requirements. In the case of partners administering programs authorized by title I of WIOA, these infrastructure costs may be considered program costs. In the case of partners administering adult education and literacy programs authorized by title II of WIOA, these funds must include Federal funds made available for the local administration of adult education and literacy programs authorized by title II of WIOA. These funds may also include non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind or third-party contributions. In the case of partners administering the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, funds used to pay for infrastructure costs may include funds available for local administrative expenses, non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind or third-party contributions, and may include other funds made available by the State.

(b) There are no specific caps on the amount or percent of overall funding a one-stop partner may contribute to fund infrastructure costs under the local funding mechanism, except that contributions for administrative costs may not exceed the amount available for administrative costs under the authorizing statute of the partner program. However, amounts contributed for infrastructure costs must be allowable and based on proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received by the partner program, taking into account the total cost of the one-stop infrastructure as well as alternate financing options, and must be consistent with 2 CFR part 200, including the Federal cost principles.

(c) Cash, non-cash, and third-party in-kind contributions may be provided by one-stop partners to cover their proportionate share of infrastructure costs.

(1) Cash contributions are cash funds provided to the Local WDB or its designee by one-stop partners, either directly or by an interagency transfer.

(2) Non-cash contributions are comprised of-

(i) Expenditures incurred by one-stop partners on behalf of the one-stop center; and

(ii) Non-cash contributions or goods or services contributed by a partner program and used by the one-stop center.

(3) Non-cash contributions, especially those set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the partners' proportionate share.

(4) Third-party in-kind contributions are:

(i) Contributions of space, equipment, technology, non-personnel services, or other like items to support the infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations, by a non-one-stop partner to support the one-stop center in general, not a specific partner; or

(ii) Contributions by a non-one-stop partner of space, equipment, technology, non-personnel services, or other like items to support the infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations, to a one-stop partner to support its proportionate share of one-stop infrastructure costs.

(iii) In-kind contributions described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 and reconciled on a regular basis to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the proportionate share of the partner.
