
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - State Workforce Development Board
##### ยง 679.150 Under what circumstances may the Governor select an alternative entity in place of the State Workforce Development Board?

(a) The State may use any State entity that meets the requirements of WIOA sec. 101(e) to perform the functions of the State WDB. This may include:

(1) A State council;

(2) A State WDB within the meaning of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of WIOA; or

(3) A combination of regional WDBs or similar entity.

(b) If the State uses an alternative entity, the State Plan must demonstrate that the alternative entity meets all three of the requirements of WIOA sec. 101(e)(1):

(1) Was in existence on the day before the date of enactment of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA);

(2) Is substantially similar to the State WDB described in WIOA secs. 101(a)-(c) and ยง 679.110; and

(3) Includes representatives of business and labor organizations in the State.

(c) If the alternative entity does not provide representatives for each of the categories required under WIOA sec. 101(b), the State Plan must explain the manner in which the State will ensure an ongoing role for any unrepresented membership group in the workforce development system. The State WDB must maintain an ongoing and meaningful role for an unrepresented membership group, including entities carrying out the core programs, by such methods as:

(1) Regularly scheduled consultations with entities within the unrepresented membership groups;

(2) Providing an opportunity for input into the State Plan or other policy development by unrepresented membership groups; and

(3) Establishing an advisory committee of unrepresented membership groups.

(d) In parts 675 through 687 of this chapter, all references to the State WDB also apply to an alternative entity used by a State.
