
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - State Workforce Development Board
##### ยง 679.110 What is the State Workforce Development Board?
###### 2

() Two or more chief elected officials (collectively representing both cities and counties, where appropriate).

(B) May include other appropriate representatives and officials designated by the Governor, such as, but not limited to, State agency officials responsible for one-stop partner programs, economic development or juvenile justice programs in the State, individuals who represent an Indian tribe or tribal organization as defined in WIOA sec. 166(b), and State agency officials responsible for education programs in the State, including chief executive officers of community colleges and other institutions of higher education.

(c) The Governor must select a chairperson for the State WDB from the business representatives on the WDB described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section).

(d) The Governor must establish by-laws that at a minimum address:

(1) The nomination process used by the Governor to select the State WDB chair and members;

(2) The term limitations and how the term appointments will be staggered to ensure only a portion of membership expire in a given year;

(3) The process to notify the Governor of a WDB member vacancy to ensure a prompt nominee;

(4) The proxy and alternative designee process that will be used when a WDB member is unable to attend a meeting and assigns a designee as per the following requirements:

(i) If the alternative designee is a business representative, he or she must have optimum policy-making hiring authority.

(ii) Other alternative designees must have demonstrated experience and expertise and optimum policy-making authority.

(5) The use of technology, such as phone and Web-based meetings, that must be used to promote WDB member participation;

(6) The process to ensure members actively participate in convening the workforce development system's stakeholders, brokering relationships with a diverse range of employers, and leveraging support for workforce development activities; and

(7) Other conditions governing appointment or membership on the State WDB as deemed appropriate by the Governor.

(e) Members who represent organizations, agencies or other entities described in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) through (iii) of this section must be individuals who have optimum policy-making authority in the organization or for the core program that they represent.

(f)(1) A State WDB member may not represent more than one of the categories described in:

(i) Paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section (business representatives);

(ii) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section (workforce representatives); or

(iii) Paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section (government representatives).

(2) A State WDB member may not serve as a representative of more than one subcategory under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(3) A State WDB member may not serve as a representative of more than one subcategory under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, except that where a single government agency is responsible for multiple required programs, the head of the agency may represent each of the required programs.

(g) All required WDB members must have voting privileges. The Governor also may convey voting privileges to non-required members.
