
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Local Workforce Development Boards
##### ยง 679.320 Who are the required members of the Local Workforce Development Board?

(a) For each local area in the State, the members of Local WDB must be selected by the chief elected official consistent with criteria established under WIOA sec. 107(b)(1) and criteria established by the Governor, and must meet the requirements of WIOA sec. 107(b)(2).

(b) A majority of the members of the Local WDB must be representatives of business in the local area. At a minimum, two members must represent small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Business representatives serving on Local WDBs also may serve on the State WDB. Each business representative must meet the following criteria:

(1) Be an owner, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or other individual with optimum policy-making or hiring authority; and

(2) Provide employment opportunities in in-demand industry sectors or occupations, as those terms are defined in WIOA sec. 3(23).

(c) At least 20 percent of the members of the Local WDB must be workforce representatives. These representatives:

(1) Must include two or more representatives of labor organizations, where such organizations exist in the local area. Where labor organizations do not exist, representatives must be selected from other employee representatives;

(2) Must include one or more representatives of a joint labor-management, or union affiliated, registered apprenticeship program within the area who must be a training director or a member of a labor organization. If no union affiliated registered apprenticeship programs exist in the area, a representative of a registered apprenticeship program with no union affiliation must be appointed, if one exists;

(3) May include one or more representatives of community-based organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training or education needs of individuals with barriers to employment, including organizations that serve veterans or provide or support competitive integrated employment for individuals with disabilities; and

(4) May include one or more representatives of organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training, or education needs of eligible youth, including representatives of organizations that serve out-of-school youth.

(d) The Local WDB also must include:

(1) At least one eligible training provider administering adult education and literacy activities under WIOA title II;

(2) At least one representative from an institution of higher education providing workforce investment activities, including community colleges; and

(3) At least one representative from each of the following governmental and economic and community development entities:

(i) Economic and community development entities;
