
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Local Workforce Development Boards
##### ยง 679.320 Who are the required members of the Local Workforce Development Board?
###### et seq.

(ii) The State Employment Service office under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49) serving the local area; and

(iii) The programs carried out under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, other than sec. 112 or part C of that title;

(e) The membership of Local WDBs may include individuals or representatives of other appropriate entities in the local area, including:

(1) Entities administering education and training activities who represent local educational agencies or community-based organizations with demonstrated expertise in addressing the education or training needs for individuals with barriers to employment;

(2) Governmental and economic and community development entities who represent transportation, housing, and public assistance programs;

(3) Philanthropic organizations serving the local area; and

(4) Other appropriate individuals as determined by the chief elected official.

(f) Members must be individuals with optimum policy-making authority within the entities they represent.

(g) Chief elected officials must establish a formal nomination and appointment process, consistent with the criteria established by the Governor and State WDB under sec. 107(b)(1) of WIOA for appointment of members of the Local WDBs, that ensures:

(1) Business representatives are appointed from among individuals who are nominated by local business organizations and business trade associations;

(2) Labor representatives are appointed from among individuals who are nominated by local labor federations (or, for a local area in which no employees are represented by such organizations, other representatives of employees); and

(3) When there is more than one local area provider of adult education and literacy activities under title II, or multiple institutions of higher education providing workforce investment activities as described in WIOA sec. 107(b)(2)(C)(i) or (ii), nominations are solicited from those particular entities.

(h) An individual may be appointed as a representative of more than one entity if the individual meets all the criteria for representation, including the criteria described in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, for each entity.

(i) All required WDB members must have voting privilege. The chief elected official may convey voting privileges to non-required members.
