
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Local Workforce Development Boards
##### ยง 679.410 Under what conditions may a Local Workforce Development Board directly be a provider of career services, or training services, or act as a one-stop operator?

(a)(1) A Local WDB may be selected as a one-stop operator:

(i) Through sole source procurement in accordance with ยง 678.610 of this chapter; or

(ii) Through successful competition in accordance with ยง 678.615 of this chapter.

(2) The chief elected official in the local area and the Governor must agree to the selection described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) Where a Local WDB acts as a one-stop operator, the State must ensure certification of one-stop centers in accordance with ยง 678.800 of this chapter.

(b) A Local WDB may act as a provider of career services only with the agreement of the chief elected official in the local area and the Governor.

(c) A Local WDB is prohibited from providing training services, unless the Governor grants a waiver in accordance with the provisions in WIOA sec. 107(g)(1).

(1) The State must develop a procedure for approving waivers that includes the criteria at WIOA sec. 107(g)(1)(B)(i):

(i) Satisfactory evidence that there is an insufficient number of eligible training providers of such a program of training services to meet local demand in the local area;

(ii) Information demonstrating that the WDB meets the requirements for eligible training provider services under WIOA sec. 122; and

(iii) Information demonstrating that the program of training services prepares participants for an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the local area.

(2) The local area must make the proposed request for a waiver available to eligible training providers and other interested members of the public for a public comment period of not less than 30 days and includes any comments received during this time in the final request for the waiver.

(3) The waiver must not exceed the duration of the local plan and may be renewed by submitting a new waiver request consistent with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for additional periods, not to exceed the durations of such subsequent plans.

(4) The Governor may revoke the waiver if the Governor determines the waiver is no longer needed or that the Local WDB involved has engaged in a pattern of inappropriate referrals to training services operated by the Local WDB.

(d) The restrictions on the provision of career and training services by the Local WDB, as one-stop operator, also apply to staff of the Local WDB.
