
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Local Workforce Development Boards
##### ยง 679.420 What are the functions of the local fiscal agent?

(a) In order to assist in administration of the grant funds, the chief elected official or the Governor, where the Governor serves as the local grant recipient for a local area, may designate an entity to serve as a local fiscal agent. Designation of a fiscal agent does not relieve the chief elected official or Governor of liability for the misuse of grant funds. If the CEO designates a fiscal agent, the CEO must ensure this agent has clearly defined roles and responsibilities.

(b) In general the fiscal agent is responsible for the following functions:

(1) Receive funds.

(2) Ensure sustained fiscal integrity and accountability for expenditures of funds in accordance with Office of Management and Budget circulars, WIOA and the corresponding Federal Regulations and State policies.

(3) Respond to audit financial findings.

(4) Maintain proper accounting records and adequate documentation.

(5) Prepare financial reports.

(6) Provide technical assistance to subrecipients regarding fiscal issues.

(c) At the direction of the Local WDB or the State WDB in single-area States, the fiscal agent may have the following additional functions:

(1) Procure contracts or obtain written agreements.

(2) Conduct financial monitoring of service providers.

(3) Ensure independent audit of all employment and training programs.
