
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Regional and Local Plan
##### § 679.510 What are the requirements for regional planning?

(a) Local WDBs and chief elected officials within an identified planning region (as defined in WIOA secs. 106(a)(2)(B)-(C) and § 679.200) must:

(1) Participate in a regional planning process that results in:

(i) The preparation of a regional plan, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and consistent with any guidance issued by the Department;

(ii) The establishment of regional service strategies, including use of cooperative service delivery agreements;

(iii) The development and implementation of sector initiatives for in-demand industry sectors or occupations for the planning region;

(iv) The collection and analysis of regional labor market data (in conjunction with the State) which must include the local planning requirements at § 679.560(a)(1)(i) and (ii);

(v) The coordination of administrative cost arrangements, including the pooling of funds for administrative costs, as appropriate;

(vi) The coordination of transportation and other supportive services as appropriate;

(vii) The coordination of services with regional economic development services and providers; and

(viii) The establishment of an agreement concerning how the planning region will collectively negotiate and reach agreement with the Governor on local levels of performance for, and report on, the performance accountability measures described in WIOA sec. 116(c) for local areas or the planning region.

(2) Prepare, submit, and obtain approval of a single regional plan that:

(i) Includes a description of the activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and

(ii) Incorporates local plans for each of the local areas in the planning region, consistent with § 679.540(a).

(b) Consistent with § 679.550(b), the Local WDBs representing each local area in the planning region must provide an opportunity for public comment on the development of the regional plan or subsequent plan modifications before submitting the plan to the Governor. To provide adequate opportunity for public comment, the Local WDBs must:

(1) Make copies of the proposed regional plan available to the public through electronic and other means, such as public hearings and local news media;

(2) Include an opportunity for comment by members of the public, including representatives of business, labor organizations, and education;

(3) Provide no more than a 30-day period for comment on the plan before its submission to the Governor, beginning on the date on which the proposed plan is made available; and

(4) The Local WDBs must submit any comments that express disagreement with the plan to the Governor along with the plan.

(5) Consistent with WIOA sec. 107(e), the Local WDB must make information about the plan available to the public on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings.

(c) The State must provide technical assistance and labor market data, as requested by local areas, to assist with regional planning and subsequent service delivery efforts.

(d) As they relate to regional areas and regional plans, the terms local area and local plan are defined in WIOA secs. 106(c)(3)(A)-(B).
