
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Regional and Local Plan
##### § 679.550 What are the requirements for the development of the local plan?

(a) Under WIOA sec. 108, each Local WDB must, in partnership with the appropriate chief elected officials, develop and submit a comprehensive 4-year plan to the Governor.

(1) The plan must identify and describe the policies, procedures, and local activities that are carried out in the local area, consistent with the State Plan.

(2) If the local area is part of a planning region, the Local WDB must comply with WIOA sec. 106(c) and §§ 679.510 through 679.540 in the preparation and submission of a regional plan.

(b) Consistent with § 679.510(b), the Local WDB must provide an opportunity for public comment on the development of the local plan or subsequent plan modifications before submitting the plan to the Governor. To provide adequate opportunity for public comment, the Local WDB must:

(1) Make copies of the proposed local plan available to the public through electronic and other means, such as public hearings and local news media;

(2) Include an opportunity for comment by members of the public, including representatives of business, labor organizations, and education;

(3) Provide no more than a 30-day period for comment on the plan before its submission to the Governor, beginning on the date on which the proposed plan is made available, prior to its submission to the Governor; and

(4) The Local WDB must submit any comments that express disagreement with the plan to the Governor along with the plan.

(5) Consistent WIOA sec. 107(e), the Local WDB must make information about the plan available to the public on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings.
