
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 679 - STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Regional and Local Plan
##### ยง 679.570 What are the requirements for approval of a local plan?

(a) Consistent with the requirements at ยง 679.520 the Governor must review completed plans (including a modification to the plan). Such plans will be considered approved 90 days after the Governor receives the plan unless the Governor determines in writing that:

(1) There are deficiencies in workforce investment activities that have been identified through audits and the local area has not made acceptable progress in implementing plans to address deficiencies; or

(2) The plan does not comply with applicable provisions of WIOA and the WIOA regulations, including the required consultations and public comment provisions, and the nondiscrimination requirements of 29 CFR part 38.

(3) The plan does not align with the State Plan, including with regard to the alignment of the core programs to support the strategy identified in the State Plan in accordance with WIOA sec. 102(b)(1)(E) and ยง 676.105 of this chapter.

(b) In cases where the State is a single local area:

(1) The State must incorporate the local plan into the State's Unified or Combined State Plan and submit it to the U.S. Department of Labor in accordance with the procedures described in ยง 676.105 of this chapter.

(2) The Secretary of Labor performs the roles assigned to the Governor as they relate to local planning activities.

(3) The Secretary of Labor will issue planning guidance for such States.
