
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Activities Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
##### ยง 680.100 What is the role of the adult and dislocated worker programs in the one-stop delivery system?

(a) The one-stop delivery system is the basic delivery system for adult and dislocated worker services. Through this system, adults and dislocated workers can access a continuum of services. The services are classified as career and training services.

(b) The chief elected official or his/her designee(s), as the local grant recipient(s) for the adult and dislocated worker programs, is a required one-stop partner and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in part 678 of this chapter. Consistent with those provisions:

(1) Career services for adults and dislocated workers must be made available in at least one one-stop center in each local area. Services also may be available elsewhere, either at affiliated sites or at specialized centers. For example, specialized centers may be established to serve workers being dislocated from a particular employer or industry, or to serve residents of public housing.

(2) Through the one-stop delivery system, adults and dislocated workers needing training are provided Individual Training Accounts (ITAs) and access to lists of eligible training providers and programs of training. These lists contain quality consumer information, including cost and performance information for each of the providers' programs, so that participants can make informed choices on where to use their ITAs. (ITAs are more fully discussed in subpart C of this part.)
