
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Activities Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
##### ยง 680.130 What are the eligibility criteria for career services for dislocated workers in the adult and dislocated worker programs?

(a) To be eligible to receive career services as a dislocated worker in the adult and dislocated worker programs, an individual must meet the definition of "dislocated worker" at WIOA sec. 3(15). Eligibility criteria for training services are found at ยง 680.210.

(b) Governors and Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs) may establish policies and procedures for one-stop centers to use in determining an individual's eligibility as a dislocated worker, consistent with the definition at WIOA sec. 3(15). These policies and procedures may address such conditions as:

(1) What constitutes a "general announcement" of plant closing under WIOA sec. 3(15)(B)(ii) or (iii);

(2) What constitutes "unemployed as a result of general economic conditions in the community in which the individual resides or because of natural disasters" for determining the eligibility of self-employed individuals, including family members and farm workers or ranch hands, under WIOA sec. 3(15)(C); and

(3) What constitutes "unlikely to return to a previous industry or occupation" under WIOA sec. 3(15)(A)(iii), consistent with ยง 680.660.
