
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Training Services
##### ยง 680.230 What are the requirements for coordination of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act training funds and other grant assistance?

(a) WIOA funding for training is limited to participants who:

(1) Are unable to obtain grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of their training; or

(2) Require assistance beyond that available under grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of such training. Programs and training providers must coordinate funds available to pay for training as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. In making the determination under this paragraph (a), one-stop centers may take into account the full cost of participating in training services, including the cost of support services and other appropriate costs.

(b) One-stop centers must coordinate training funds available and make funding arrangements with one-stop partners and other entities to apply the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. One-stop centers must consider the availability of other sources of grants to pay for training costs such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), State-funded training funds, and Federal Pell Grants, so that WIOA funds supplement other sources of training grants.

(c) A WIOA participant may enroll in WIOA-funded training while his/her application for a Pell Grant is pending as long as the one-stop center has made arrangements with the training provider and the WIOA participant regarding allocation of the Pell Grant, if it is subsequently awarded. In that case, the training provider must reimburse the one-stop center the WIOA funds used to underwrite the training for the amount the Pell Grant covers, including any education fees the training provider charges to attend training. Reimbursement is not required from the portion of Pell Grant assistance disbursed to the WIOA participant for education-related expenses.
