
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Eligible Training Providers
##### ยง 680.400 What is the purpose of this subpart?

(a) This subpart describes the process for determining eligible training providers and programs for WIOA title I, subtitle B adult, dislocated worker, and out-of-school youth (OSY) aged 16-24 training participants and for publicly disseminating the list of these providers with relevant information about their programs. The workforce development system established under WIOA emphasizes informed consumer choice, job-driven training, provider performance, and continuous improvement. The quality and selection of providers and programs of training services is vital to achieving these core principles.

(b) The State list of eligible training providers and programs and the related eligibility procedures ensure the accountability, quality and labor-market relevance of programs of training services that receive funds through WIOA title I, subtitle B. The State list of eligible training providers and programs also is a means for ensuring informed customer choice for individuals eligible for training. In administering the eligible training provider eligibility process, States and local areas must work to ensure that qualified providers offering a wide variety of job-driven programs of training services are available. The State list of eligible training providers and programs is made publicly available online through Web sites and searchable databases as well as any other means the State uses to disseminate information to consumers, including formats accessible to individuals with disabilities. The list must be accompanied by relevant performance and cost information and must be presented in a way that is easily understood, in order to maximize informed consumer choice and serve all significant population groups, and also must be available in an electronic format. The State eligible training provider performance reports, as required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(4), are addressed separately in ยง 677.230 of this chapter.
