
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Eligible Training Providers
##### § 680.470 What are the procedures for including and removing registered apprenticeship programs on a State list of eligible training providers and programs?

(a) All registered apprenticeship programs that are registered with the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Apprenticeship, or a recognized State apprenticeship agency, are automatically eligible to be included in the State list of eligible training providers and programs. All registered apprenticeship programs must be informed of their automatic eligibility to be included on the list, and must be provided an opportunity to consent to their inclusion, before being placed on the State list of eligible training providers and programs. The Governor must establish a mechanism for registered apprenticeship program sponsors in the State to be informed of their automatic eligibility and to indicate that the program sponsor wishes to be included on the State list of eligible training providers and programs. This mechanism must place minimal burden on registered apprenticeship program sponsors and must be developed in accordance with guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship or with the assistance of the recognized State apprenticeship agency, as applicable.

(b) Once on the State list of eligible training providers and programs, registered apprenticeship programs will remain on the list:

(1) Until they are deregistered;

(2) Until the registered apprenticeship program notifies the State that it no longer wants to be included on the list; or

(3) Until the registered apprenticeship program is determined to have intentionally supplied inaccurate information or to have substantially violated any provision of title I of WIOA or the WIOA regulations, including 29 CFR part 38.

(c) A registered apprenticeship program whose eligibility is terminated under paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be terminated for not less than 2 years and is liable to repay all youth, adult, and dislocated worker training funds it received during the period of noncompliance. The Governor must specify in the procedures required by § 680.480 which individual or entity is responsible for making these determinations and the process by which the determination will be made, which must include an opportunity for a hearing that meets the requirements of § 683.630(b) of this chapter.

(d) Inclusion of a registered apprenticeship in the State list of eligible training providers and programs allows an individual who is eligible to use WIOA title I, subtitle B funds to use those funds toward registered apprenticeship training, consistent with their availability and limitations as prescribed by § 680.300. The use of ITAs and other WIOA title I, subtitle B funds toward registered apprenticeship training is further described in § 680.330.

(e) The Governor is encouraged to consult with the State and Local WDBs, ETA's Office of Apprenticeship, recognized State apprenticeship agencies (where they exist in the Governor's State) or other State agencies, to establish voluntary reporting of performance information.

(f) Pre-apprenticeship providers that wish to provide training services to participants using WIOA title I, subtitle B funds are subject to the eligibility procedures of this subpart.
