
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Eligible Training Providers
##### § 680.500 How is the State list of eligible training providers and programs disseminated?

(a) In order to assist participants in choosing employment and training activities, the Governor or State agency must disseminate the State list of eligible training providers and programs and accompanying performance and cost information to Local WDBs in the State and to members of the public online, including through Web sites and searchable databases, and through whatever other means the State uses to disseminate information to consumers, including the one-stop delivery system and its program partners throughout the State.

(b) The State list of eligible training providers and programs and information must be updated regularly and provider and program eligibility must be reviewed biennially according to the procedures established by the Governor in § 680.460(i).

(c) In order to ensure informed consumer choice, the State list of eligible training providers and programs and accompanying information must be widely available to the public through electronic means, including Web sites and searchable databases, as well as through any other means the State uses to disseminate information to consumers. The list and accompanying information must be available through the one-stop delivery system and its partners including the State's secondary and postsecondary education systems. The list must be accessible to individuals seeking information on training outcomes, as well as participants in employment and training activities funded under WIOA, including those under § 680.210, and other programs. In accordance with WIOA sec. 188, the State list also must be accessible to individuals with disabilities.

(d) The State list of eligible training providers and programs must be accompanied by appropriate information to assist participants in choosing employment and programs of training services. Such information must include:

(1) Recognized postsecondary credential(s) offered;

(2) Provider information supplied to meet the Governor's eligibility procedure as described in §§ 680.450 and 680.460;

(3) Performance and cost information as described in § 680.490; and

(4) Additional information as the Governor determines appropriate.

(e) The State list of eligible training providers and programs and accompanying information must be made available in a manner that does not reveal personally identifiable information about an individual participant. In addition, in developing the information to accompany the State list described in § 680.490(b), disclosure of personally identifiable information from an education record must be carried out in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, including the circumstances relating to prior written consent.
