
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Eligible Training Providers
##### § 680.490 What kind of performance and cost information must eligible training providers other than registered apprenticeship programs provide for each program of training services?

(a) In accordance with the State procedure under § 680.460(i), eligible training providers, except registered apprenticeship programs, must submit, at least every 2 years, appropriate, timely, and accurate performance and cost information.

(b) Program-specific performance information must include:

(1) The information described in WIOA sec. 122(b)(2)(A) for individuals participating in the programs of training services who are receiving assistance under WIOA. This information includes indicators of performance as described in WIOA secs. 116(b)(2)(I)-(IV) and § 680.460(g)(1) through (4);

(2) Information identifying the recognized postsecondary credentials received by such participants in § 680.460(g)(5);

(3) Program cost information, including tuition and fees, for WIOA participants in the program in § 680.460(g)(6); and

(4) Information on the program completion rate for WIOA participants in § 680.460(g)(7).

(c) Governors may require any additional performance information (such as the information described at WIOA sec. 122(b)(1)) that the Governor determines to be appropriate to determine, maintain eligibility, or better to inform consumers.

(d) Governors must establish a procedure by which a provider can demonstrate that providing additional information required under this section would be unduly burdensome or costly. If the Governor determines that providers have demonstrated such extraordinary costs or undue burden:

(1) The Governor must provide access to cost-effective methods for the collection of the information;

(2) The Governor may provide additional resources to assist providers in the collection of the information from funds for statewide workforce investment activities reserved under WIOA secs. 128(a) and 133(a)(1); or

(3) The Governor may take other steps to assist eligible training providers in collecting and supplying required information such as offering technical assistance.
