
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Eligible Training Providers
##### § 680.460 What is the application procedure for continued eligibility?

(a) The Governor must establish an application procedure for eligible training providers and programs to maintain their continued eligibility. The application procedure must take into account the program's prior eligibility status.

(1) Training providers and programs that were previously eligible under WIA will be subject to the application procedure for continued eligibility after the close of the Governor's transition period for implementation.

(2) Training providers and programs that were not previously eligible under WIA and have been determined to be initially eligible under WIOA, under the procedures described at § 680.450, will be subject to the application procedure for continued eligibility after their initial eligibility expires.

(b) The Governor must develop this procedure after:

(1) Soliciting and taking into consideration recommendations from Local WDBs and providers of training services within the State;

(2) Providing an opportunity for interested members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations, to submit comments on such procedure; and

(3) Designating a specific time period for soliciting and considering the recommendations of Local WDBs and providers, and for providing an opportunity for public comment.

(c) Procedures for registered apprenticeship programs to be included and maintained on the list are described in § 680.470. Apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act must be included and maintained on the State list of eligible training providers and programs as long as the program remains registered, unless the registered apprenticeship program is removed from the list for a reason set forth in § 680.470.

(d) The application procedure must describe the roles of the State and local areas in receiving and reviewing provider applications and in making eligibility determinations.

(e) The application procedure must be described in the State Plan.

(f) In establishing eligibility criteria, the Governor must take into account:

(1) The performance of the eligible training provider's program on:

(i) The performance accountability measures described in WIOA secs. 116(b)(2)(A)(i)(I)-(IV) and the other matters required by WIOA sec. 122(b)(2);

(ii) Other appropriate measures of performance outcomes determined by the Governor for program participants receiving training services under WIOA title I, subtitle B, taking into consideration the characteristics of the population served and relevant economic conditions; and

(iii) Outcomes of the program for students in general with respect to employment and earnings as defined in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2).

(iv) All of these measures may include minimum performance standards.

(v) Until data from the conclusion of each performance indicator's first data cycle are available, the Governor may take into account alternate factors related to the measures described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(2) Ensuring access to training services throughout the State, including in rural areas, and through the use of technology;

(3) Information reported to State agencies on Federal and State training programs other than programs within WIOA title I, subtitle B;

(4) The degree to which programs of training services relate to in-demand industry sectors and occupations in the State;

(5) State licensure requirements of training providers;

(6) Encouraging the use of industry-recognized certificates and credentials;

(7) The ability of providers to offer programs of training services that lead to postsecondary credentials;

(8) The quality of the program of training services including a program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential;

(9) The ability of the providers to provide training services to individuals who are employed and individuals with barriers to employment;

(10) Whether the providers timely and accurately submitted all of the information required for completion of eligible training provider performance reports required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(4) and all of the information required for initial and continued eligibility in this subpart; and

(11) Other factors that the Governor determines are appropriate in order to ensure: The accountability of providers; that one-stop centers in the State will meet the needs of local employers and participants; and, that participants will be given an informed choice among providers.

(g) The information requirements that the Governor establishes under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must require eligible training providers to submit appropriate, accurate, and timely information for participants receiving training under WIOA title I, subtitle B. That information must include:

(1) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;

(2) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;

(3) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;

(4) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program;

(5) Information on recognized postsecondary credentials received by program participants;

(6) Information on cost of attendance, including costs of tuition and fees, for program participants;

(7) Information on the program completion rate for such participants.

(h) The eligibility criteria must require that:

(1) Providers submit performance and cost information as described in paragraph (g) of this section and in the Governor's procedures for each program of training services for which the provider has been determined to be eligible, in a timeframe and manner determined by the State, but at least every 2 years; and

(2) That the collection of information required to demonstrate compliance with the criteria is not unduly burdensome or costly to providers.

(i) The procedure for continued eligibility also must provide for the State biennially to review provider eligibility information to assess the renewal of training provider eligibility. Such procedures may establish minimum levels of training provider performance as criteria for continued eligibility.

(j) The procedure for biennial review of the provider eligibility must include verification of the registration status of registered apprenticeship programs and removal of any registered apprenticeship programs as described in § 680.470.

(k) The Governor may establish procedures and timeframes for providing technical assistance to eligible training providers who are not intentionally supplying inaccurate information or who have not substantially violated any of the requirements under this section but are failing to meet the criteria and information requirements due to undue cost or burden.

(l) The Governor's procedures must include what the Governor considers to be a substantial violation of the requirement to timely and accurately submit all of the information required for completion of the eligible training provider performance reports required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(4) and all of the information required for initial and continued eligibility in this subpart.

(1) The Governor's procedures on determining a substantial violation must take into account exceptional circumstances beyond the provider's control, such as natural disasters, unexpected personnel transitions, and unexpected technology-related issues.

(2) Providers who substantially violate the requirement in paragraph (g) of this section to timely and accurately submit all required information must be removed from the State list of eligible training providers and programs, as provided in § 680.480(b).
