
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart F - Work-Based Training
##### ยง 680.700 What are the requirements for on-the-job training?

(a) OJT is defined at WIOA sec. 3(44). OJT is provided under a contract with an employer or registered apprenticeship program sponsor in the public, private non-profit, or private sector. Through the OJT contract, occupational training is provided for the WIOA participant in exchange for the reimbursement, typically up to 50 percent of the wage rate of the participant, for the extraordinary costs of providing the training and supervision related to the training. In limited circumstances, as provided in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(h) and ยง 680.730, the reimbursement may be up to 75 percent of the wage rate of the participant.

(b) OJT contracts under WIOA title I, must not be entered into with an employer who has received payments under previous contracts under WIOA or WIA if the employer has exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits (including health benefits) and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.

(c) An OJT contract must be limited to the period of time required for a participant to become proficient in the occupation for which the training is being provided. In determining the appropriate length of the contract, consideration should be given to the skill requirements of the occupation, the academic and occupational skill level of the participant, prior work experience, and the participant's IEP.
