
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 680 - ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart G - Supportive Services
##### § 680.900 What are supportive services for adults and dislocated workers?

Supportive services for adults and dislocated workers are defined at WIOA sec. 3(59) and secs. 134(d)(2) and (3). Local WDBs, in consultation with the one-stop partners and other community service providers, must develop a policy on supportive services that ensures resource and service coordination in the local area. The policy should address procedures for referral to such services, including how such services will be funded when they are not otherwise available from other sources. The provision of accurate information about the availability of supportive services in the local area, as well as referral to such activities, is one of the career services that must be available to adults and dislocated workers through the one-stop delivery system. (WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(ix) and § 678.430 of this chapter). Local WDBs must ensure that needs-related payments are made in a manner consistent with §§ 680.930, 680.940, 680.950, 680.960, and 680.970. Supportive services are services that are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities authorized under WIOA sec. 134(c)(2) and (3). These services may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) Linkages to community services;

(b) Assistance with transportation;

(c) Assistance with child care and dependent care;

(d) Assistance with housing;

(e) Needs-related payments, as described at §§ 680.930, 680.940, 680.950, 680.960, and 680.970;

(f) Assistance with educational testing;

(g) Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities;

(h) Legal aid services;

(i) Referrals to health care;

(j) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eyeglasses and protective eye gear;

(k) Assistance with books, fees, school supplies, and other necessary items for students enrolled in postsecondary education classes; and

(l) Payments and fees for employment and training-related applications, tests, and certifications.
