
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 681 - YOUTH ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Youth Program Design, Elements, and Parameters
##### ยง 681.410 Does the requirement that a State and local area expend at least 75 percent of youth funds to provide services to out-of-school youth apply to all youth funds?

Yes. The 75 percent requirement applies to both statewide youth activities funds and local youth funds with 2 exceptions.

(a) Only statewide funds spent on direct services to youth are subject to the OSY expenditure requirement. Funds spent on statewide youth activities that do not provide direct services to youth, such as most of the required statewide youth activities listed in WIOA sec. 129(b)(1), are not subject to the OSY expenditure requirement. For example, administrative costs, monitoring, and technical assistance are not subject to OSY expenditure requirement; while funds spent on direct services to youth such as statewide demonstration projects, are subject to the OSY expenditure requirement.

(b) For a State that receives a small State minimum allotment under WIOA sec. 127(b)(1)(C)(iv)(II) for youth or WIOA sec. 132(b)(1)(B)(iv)(II) for adults, the State may submit a request to the Secretary to decrease the percentage to not less than 50 percent for a local area in the State, and the Secretary may approve such a request for that program year, if the State meets the following requirements:

(1) After an analysis of the ISY and OSY populations in the local area, the State determines that the local area will be unable to use at least 75 percent of the local area WIOA youth funds to serve OSY due to a low number of OSY; and

(2) The State submits to the Secretary, for the local area, a request including a proposed percentage decreased to not less than 50 percent to provide workforce investment activities for OSY.

(c) In the exercise of discretion afforded by WIOA sec. 129(a)(4), the Secretary has determined that requests to decrease the percentage of funds used to provide youth workforce investment activities for OSY will not be granted to States that received 90 percent of the allotment percentage for the past year. Therefore, when the Secretary receives such a request from a State, the request will be denied.

(d) For local area funds, the administrative costs of carrying out local workforce investment activities described in WIOA sec. 128(b)(4) are not subject to the OSY expenditure requirement. All other local area youth funds beyond the administrative costs are subject to the OSY expenditure requirement.
