
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 681 - YOUTH ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Youth Program Design, Elements, and Parameters
##### ยง 681.580 What are follow-up services for youth?

(a) Follow-up services are critical services provided following a youth's exit from the program to help ensure the youth is successful in employment and/or postsecondary education and training. Follow-up services may include regular contact with a youth participant's employer, including assistance in addressing work-related problems that arise.

(b) Follow-up services for youth also may include the following program elements:

(1) Supportive services;

(2) Adult mentoring;

(3) Financial literacy education;

(4) Services that provide labor market and employment information about in-demand industry sectors or occupations available in the local area, such as career awareness, career counseling, and career exploration services; and

(5) Activities that help youth prepare for and transition to postsecondary education and training.

(c) All youth participants must be offered an opportunity to receive follow-up services that align with their individual service strategies. Furthermore, follow-up services must be provided to all participants for a minimum of 12 months unless the participant declines to receive follow-up services or the participant cannot be located or contacted. Follow-up services may be provided beyond 12 months at the State or Local WDB's discretion. The types of services provided and the duration of services must be determined based on the needs of the individual and therefore, the type and intensity of follow-up services may differ for each participant. Follow-up services must include more than only a contact attempted or made for securing documentation in order to report a performance outcome.
