
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 682 - STATEWIDE ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Rapid Response Activities
##### ยง 682.330 What rapid response activities are required?
###### et seq.

(c) The provision of information and access to unemployment compensation benefits and programs, such as Short-Time Compensation, comprehensive one-stop delivery system services, and employment and training activities, including information on the TAA program (19 U.S.C. 2271), Pell Grants, the GI Bill, and other resources.

(d) The delivery of other necessary services and resources including workshops and classes, use of worker transition centers, and job fairs, to support reemployment efforts for affected workers.

(e) Partnership with the Local WDB(s) and chief elected official(s) to ensure a coordinated response to the dislocation event and, as needed, obtain access to State or local economic development assistance. Such coordinated response may include the development of an application for a national dislocated worker grant as provided under part 687 of this chapter.

(f) The provision of emergency assistance adapted to the particular layoff or disaster.

(g) As appropriate, developing systems and processes for:

(1) Identifying and gathering information for early warning of potential layoffs or opportunities for layoff aversion;

(2) Analyzing, and acting upon, data and information on dislocations and other economic activity in the State, region, or local area; and

(3) Tracking outcome and performance data and information related to the activities of the rapid response program.

(h) Developing and maintaining partnerships with other appropriate Federal, State and local agencies and officials, employer associations, technical councils, other industry business councils, labor organizations, and other public and private organizations, as applicable, in order to:

(1) Conduct strategic planning activities to develop strategies for addressing dislocation events and ensuring timely access to a broad range of necessary assistance; and

(2) Develop mechanisms for gathering and exchanging information and data relating to potential dislocations, resources available, and the customization of layoff aversion or rapid response activities, to ensure the ability to provide rapid response services as early as possible.

(i) Delivery of services to worker groups for which a petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance has been filed.

(j) The provision of additional assistance, as described in ยง 682.350, to local areas that experience disasters, mass layoffs, or other dislocation events when such events exceed the capacity of the local area to respond with existing resources as provided under WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(A)(i)(II).

(k) Provision of guidance and financial assistance as appropriate, in establishing a labor-management committee if voluntarily agreed to by the employee's bargaining representative and management. The committee may devise and oversee an implementation strategy that responds to the reemployment needs of the workers. The assistance to this committee may include:

(1) The provision of training and technical assistance to members of the committee; and

(2) Funding the operating costs of a committee to enable it to provide advice and assistance in carrying out rapid response activities and in the design and delivery of WIOA-authorized services to affected workers.
