
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - Funding and Closeout
##### ยง 683.105 What award document authorizes the expenditure of funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
###### Awards for evaluation and research under sec. 169 of WIOA.

(e)(1) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements will be made to eligible entities for programs or activities authorized under WIOA sec. 169. These funds are for:

(i) Evaluations;

(ii) Research;

(iii) Studies;

(iv) Multi-State projects; and

(v) Dislocated worker projects.

(2) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section in amounts that exceed $100,000 will be awarded on a competitive basis, except that a noncompetitive award may be made in the case of a project that is funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for the project.

(3) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements for carrying out projects in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section may not be awarded to the same organization for more than 3 consecutive years unless:

(i) Such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is competitively reevaluated within such period;

(ii) The initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement was issued on a non-competitive basis because it was for less than $100,000, and:

(A) The non-competitive continuation is for less than $100,000;

(B) The scope of work is essentially the same as the initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement;

(C) Progress in meeting performance objectives is satisfactory; and

(D) Other terms and conditions established by the Department have been met; or

(iii) The initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement was issued on a non-competitive basis because the project was funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance, and:

(A) The non-competitive continuation maintains a substantial portion of joint funding;

(B) The scope of work is essentially the same as the initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement;

(C) Progress in meeting performance objectives is satisfactory; and

(D) Other terms and conditions established by the Department have been met.

(4) Entities with recognized expertise in the methods, techniques, and knowledge of workforce investment activities will be provided priority in awarding funds for the projects under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section. The duration of such projects will be specified in the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.

(5) A peer review process will be used to review and evaluate projects under this paragraph (e) for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements that exceed $500,000, and to designate exemplary and promising programs.
