
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 220 - DETERMINING DISABILITY
##### Appendix 3 to Part 220 - Railroad Retirement Board Occupational Disability Standards
###### Example B:

2.06Under Body Part E., Lumbar Sacral Spine, three highly recommended medical findings are identified for the diagnosis of chronic back pain, not otherwise specified. These findings include:

A. A history of back pain under medical treatment for at least one year, and

B. A history of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least one year, and

C. A history of back pain with functional limitations for at least one year.

2.07 All three of these criteria must be satisfied to confirm the existence of chronic back pain.

2.08 Sometimes the employee may have undergone detailed testing which is as reliable as one of the "highly recommended" tests listed in the Tables. In cases where an impairment has not been confirmed by one of the designated "highly recommended" tests, the impairment may still be confirmed by "recommended" tests (see below) or by evidence acceptable under section 220.27 of this part.

2.09 Recommended Tests-The designation of a confirmatory test as "recommended" means that the test need not be performed, or be positive, to confirm the impairment. However, a positive test provides significant support for confirming the impairment. If there are no "highly recommended" tests for confirming the impairment, at least one of the "recommended" tests should be positive.

2.10 There are two categories of recommended tests which are described below.
