
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - Funding and Closeout
##### ยง 683.125 What minimum funding provisions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act adult, dislocated worker, and youth allocations?

(a) For funding authorized by secs. 128(b)(2), 133(b)(2)(A), and 133(b)(2)(B) of WIOA, which are youth, adult, and dislocated worker funds, a local area must not receive an allocation percentage for a fiscal year that is less than 90 percent of the average allocation percentage of the local area for the 2 preceding fiscal years.

(b) The Department's annual fiscal year appropriation provides funding for programs and activities described in paragraph (a) of this section under separate appropriations with various periods of availability. These periods of availability are described in ยง 683.100 as a program year. A program year for funds allocated under secs. 133(b)(2)(A) and 133(b)(2)(B) of WIOA begins on July 1 in the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year. A program year for funds available under WIOA sec. 128(b)(2) is available from April 1 of the fiscal year in which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year. Therefore, when grantees are calculating the minimum funding percentage they must do so on a program year basis.

(c) When a new local area is designated under sec. 106 of WIOA the State must develop a methodology to apply the minimum funding provision specified in paragraph (a) of this section to local area allocations of WIOA youth, adult, and dislocated worker funds.

(d) Amounts necessary to increase allocations to local areas to comply with paragraph (a) of this section must be obtained by ratably reducing the allocations to be made to other local areas.

(e) If the amounts of WIOA funds appropriated in a fiscal year are not sufficient to provide the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this section to all local areas, the amounts allocated to each local area must be ratably reduced.
