
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - Funding and Closeout
##### ยง 683.150 What closeout requirements apply to grants funded with Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?

(a) After the expiration of the period of performance, the Department will closeout the Federal award when it determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the Federal award have been completed by the grant recipient. This section specifies the actions the grant recipient and the Department must take to complete this process.

(1) The grant recipient must submit, no later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

(2) The Department may approve extensions when requested by the grant recipient.

(b) Unless otherwise noted in the terms and conditions of the award or an extension, grant recipients must comply with 2 CFR 200.343(b) and 2900.15 in regards to closeout.

(c) The Department must make prompt payments to the grant recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the Federal award being closed out.

(d) The grant recipient must promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that the Department paid in advance or paid and that is not authorized to be retained by the grant recipient. See Office of Management and Budget Circular A-129, 2 CFR 200.345, and 2 CFR part 2900 for requirements regarding unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts.

(e) Consistent with the terms and conditions of the Federal award, the Department must make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received.

(f) The grant recipient must account for any real and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal government in accordance with 2 CFR 200.310 through 200.316, and 200.329.

(g) The Department should complete all closeout actions for Federal awards no later than 1 year after receipt and acceptance of all required final reports.

(h) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following:

(1) The right of the Department to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review.

(2) The obligation of the grant recipient to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions.

(3) Audit requirements as described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.

(4) Property management requirements in 2 CFR 200.310 through 200.316.

(5) Records retention as required in 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337.

(i) After closeout of an award, a relationship created under the award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of the Department and the grant recipient, provided the responsibilities of the grant recipient referred to in 2 CFR 200.344(a) and 200.310 through 200.316 are considered, and provisions are made for continuing responsibilities of the grant recipient, as appropriate.

(j) Grant recipients that award WIOA funds to subrecipients must institute a timely closeout process after the end of performance to ensure a timely closeout in accordance with 2 CFR 200.343 and 200.344.
