
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
##### ยง 683.200 What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
###### Uniform administrative requirements.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3) through (6) of this section, all recipients and subrecipients of a Federal award under title I of WIOA and under the Wagner-Peyser Act must follow 2 CFR part 200, including any exceptions identified by the Department at 2 CFR part 2900.

(2) Unless otherwise specified in the grant agreement, expenditures must be reported on accrual basis.

(3) In accordance with the requirements at 2 CFR 200.400(g), subrecipients may not earn or keep any profit resulting from Federal financial assistance, unless expressly authorized by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

(4) In addition to the requirements at 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.326 (as appropriate), all procurement contracts between Local WDBs and units of State or local governments must be conducted only on a cost reimbursement basis.

(5) In addition to the requirements at 2 CFR 200.318, which address codes of conduct and conflict of interest the following applies:

(i) A State WDB member, Local WDB member, or WDB standing committee member must neither cast a vote on, nor participate in any decision-making capacity, on the provision of services by such member (or any organization which that member directly represents), nor on any matter which would provide any direct financial benefit to that member or that member's immediate family.

(ii) Neither membership on the State WDB, the Local WDB, or a WDB standing committee, nor the receipt of WIOA funds to provide training and related services, by itself, violates these conflict of interest provisions.

(iii) In accordance with the requirements at 2 CFR 200.112, recipients of Federal awards must disclose in writing any potential conflict of interest to the Department. Subrecipients must disclose in writing any potential conflict of interest to the recipient of grant funds.

(6) The addition method, described at 2 CFR 200.307, must be used for all program income earned under title I of WIOA and Wagner-Peyser Act grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to the program, the gross amount earned must be added to the program in which it was earned. However, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under the grants when these costs have not been charged to the program.

(7) Any excess of revenue over costs incurred for services provided by a governmental or non-profit entity must be included in program income.

(8) Interest income earned on funds received under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act must be included in program income.

(9) On a fee-for-service basis, employers may use local area services, facilities, or equipment funded under title I of WIOA to provide employment and training activities to incumbent workers:

(i) When the services, facilities, or equipment are not being used by eligible participants;

(ii) If their use does not affect the ability of eligible participants to use the services, facilities, or equipment; and

(iii) If the income generated from such fees is used to carry out programs authorized under this title.
