
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
##### ยง 683.205 What administrative cost limitations apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I grants?
###### State formula grants.

(a)(1) As part of the 15 percent that a State may reserve for statewide activities, the State may spend up to 5 percent of the amount allotted under secs. 127(b)(1), 132(b)(1), and 132(b)(2) of WIOA for the administrative costs of statewide activities.

(2) Local area expenditures for administrative purposes under WIOA formula grants are limited to no more than 10 percent of the amount allocated to the local area under secs. 128(b) and 133(b) of WIOA.

(3) The 5 percent reserved for statewide administrative costs and the 10 percent reserved for local administrative costs may be used for administrative costs for any of the statewide youth workforce investment activities or statewide employment and training activities under secs. 127(b)(1), 128(b), 132(b), and 133(b) of WIOA.

(4) In a one-stop environment, administrative costs borne by other sources of funds, such as the Wagner-Peyser Act, are not included in the administrative cost limit calculation. Each program's administrative activities are chargeable to its own grant and subject to its own administrative cost limitations.

(5) Costs of negotiating a MOU or infrastructure funding agreement under title I of WIOA are excluded from the administrative cost limitations.
