
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
##### ยง 683.240 What are the instructions for using real property with Federal equity?
###### SESA properties.

(a)Federal equity acquired in real property through grants to States awarded under title III of the Social Security Act or the Wagner-Peyser Act, including State Employment Security Agency (SESA) real property, is transferred to the States that used the grant to acquire such equity.

(1) The portion of any real property that is attributable to the Federal equity transferred under this section must be used to carry out activities authorized under WIOA, title III of the Social Security Act (Unemployment Compensation program), or the Wagner-Peyser Act.

(2) When such real property is no longer needed for the activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the States must request disposition instructions from the Grant Officer prior to disposition or sale of the property. The portion of the proceeds from the disposition of the real property that is attributable to the Federal equity transferred under this section must be used to carry out activities authorized under WIOA, title III of the Social Security Act, or the Wagner-Peyser Act.

(3) States must not use funds awarded under WIOA, title III of the Social Security Act, or the Wagner-Peyser Act to amortize the costs of real property that is purchased by any State on or after February 15, 2007, the date of enactment of the Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007.

(4) Properties occupied by the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service must be colocated with one-stop centers.
