
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
##### ยง 683.290 Are there salary and bonus restrictions in place for the use of title I of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
###### https://www.opm.gov/

(a) No funds available under title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used by a recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the salary and bonuses of an individual, either as direct costs or indirect costs, at a rate in excess of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level II of the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5313, which can be found at.

(b) In instances where funds awarded under title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act pay only a portion of the salary or bonus, the WIOA title I or Wagner-Peyser Act funds may only be charged for the share of the employee's salary or bonus attributable to the work performed on the WIOA title I or Wagner-Peyser Act grant. That portion cannot exceed the proportional Executive level II rate. The restriction applies to the sum of salaries and bonuses charged as either direct costs or indirect costs under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act.

(c) The limitation described in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to contractors (as defined in 2 CFR 200.23) providing goods and services. In accordance with 2 CFR 200.330, characteristics indicative of contractor are the following:

(1) Provides the goods and services within normal business operations;

(2) Provides similar goods or services to many different purchasers;

(3) Normally operates in a competitive environment;

(4) Provides goods or services that are ancillary to the operation of the Federal program; and

(5) Is not subject to compliance requirements of the Federal program as a result of the agreement, though similar requirements may apply for other reasons.

(d) If a State is a recipient of such funds, the State may establish a lower limit than is provided in paragraph (a) of this section for salaries and bonuses of those receiving salaries and bonuses from a subrecipient of such funds, taking into account factors including the relative cost of living in the State, the compensation levels for comparable State or local government employees, and the size of the organizations that administer the Federal programs involved.

(e) When an individual is working for the same recipient or subrecipient in multiple offices that are funded by title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act, the recipient or subrecipient must ensure that the sum of the individual's salary and bonus does not exceed the prescribed limit in paragraph (a) of this section.
