
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
##### ยง 683.285 What are a recipient's obligations to ensure nondiscrimination and equal opportunity, and what are a recipient's obligations with respect to religious activities?

(a)(1) Recipients, as defined in 29 CFR 37.4, must comply with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIOA sec. 188 and its implementing regulations, codified at 29 CFR part 38. Under that definition, the term "recipients" includes State and Local WDBs, one-stop operators, service providers, Job Corps contractors, and subrecipients, as well as other types of individuals and entities.

(2) Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements and procedures, including complaint processing and compliance reviews, are governed by the regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, codified at 29 CFR part 38, and are administered and enforced by the Department of Labor Civil Rights Center.

(3) Financial assistance provided under title I of WIOA may be used to meet a recipient's obligation to provide physical and programmatic accessibility and reasonable accommodation/modification in regard to the WIOA program, as required by sec. 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended; sec. 188 of WIOA; and the regulations implementing these statutory provisions.

(4) No person may discriminate against an individual who is a participant in a program or activity that receives funds under title I of WIOA, with respect to the terms and conditions affecting, or rights provided to, the individual, solely because of the status of the individual as a participant.

(5) Participation in programs and activities or receiving funds under title I of WIOA must be available to citizens and nationals of the United States, lawfully admitted permanent resident aliens, refugees, asylees, and parolees, and other immigrants authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary's designee to work in the United States.
