
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
##### § 683.265 What procedures and sanctions apply to violations of this part?

(a) The Grant Officer will promptly review and take appropriate action on alleged violations of the provisions relating to:

(1) Construction (§ 683.235);

(2) Employment generating activities (§ 683.245);

(3) Other prohibited activities (§ 683.250);

(4) The limitation related to religious activities (§ 683.255); and

(5) The use of WIOA title I funds to encourage business relocation (§ 683.260).

(b) Procedures for the investigation and resolution of the violations are provided under the Grant Officer's resolution process at § 683.440.

(c) Sanctions and remedies are provided for under sec. 184(c) of WIOA for violations of the provisions relating to:

(1) Construction (§ 683.235);

(2) Employment generating activities (§ 683.245);

(3) Other prohibited activities (§ 683.250); and

(4) The limitation related to religious activities (§ 683.255(b)).

(d) Sanctions and remedies are provided for in sec. 181(d)(3) of WIOA for violations of § 683.260, which addresses business relocation.

(e) Violations of § 683.255(a) will be handled in accordance with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, codified at 29 CFR part 38.
