
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Oversight and Resolution of Findings
##### ยง 683.400 What are the Federal and State monitoring and oversight responsibilities?

(a) The Secretary is authorized to monitor all recipients and subrecipients of all Federal financial assistance awarded and funds expended under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act to determine compliance with these statutes and Department regulations, and may investigate any matter deemed necessary to determine such compliance. Federal oversight will be conducted primarily at the recipient level.

(b) As funds allow, in each fiscal year, the Secretary also will conduct in-depth reviews in several States, including financial and performance monitoring, to assure that funds are spent in accordance with WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act.

(c)(1) Each recipient and subrecipient must monitor grant-supported activities in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.

(2) In the case of grants under secs. 128 and 133 of WIOA, the Governor must develop a State monitoring system that meets the requirements of ยง 683.410(b). The Governor must monitor Local WDBs and regions annually for compliance with applicable laws and regulations in accordance with the State monitoring system. Monitoring must include an annual review of each local area's compliance with 2 CFR part 200.

(d) Documentation of monitoring, including monitoring reports and audit work papers, conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, along with corrective action plans, must be made available for review upon request of the Secretary, Governor, or a representative of the Federal government authorized to request the information.
