
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart F - Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
##### ยง 683.640 What procedures apply to the appeals of non-designation of local areas?

(a) A unit of general local government (including a combination of such units) or grant recipient whose appeal of the denial of a request for initial or subsequent designation as a local area to the State WDB has not resulted in such designation, may appeal the State WDB's denial to the Secretary.

(b) Appeals made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the denial from the State WDB, and must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the State WDB.

(c) The appellant must establish that it was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process set forth in the State Plan, or establish that it meets the requirements for designation in WIOA sec. 106(b)(2) or 106(b)(3) and ยง 679.250 of this chapter.

(d) If the Secretary determines that the appellant has met its burden of establishing that it was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process set forth in the State Plan, or that it meets the requirements for designation in WIOA sec. 106(b)(2) or 106(b)(3) and ยง 679.250 of this chapter, the Secretary may require that the area be designated as a local area. In making this determination, the Secretary may consider any comments submitted by the State WDB in response to the appeal made under paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) The Secretary must issue a written decision to the Governor and the appellant.
