
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart G - Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
##### ยง 683.730 When can the Secretary waive the imposition of sanctions?

(a)(1) A recipient of title I funds may request that the Secretary waive the imposition of sanctions authorized under WIOA sec. 184.

(2) A Grant officer may approve the waiver described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the grant officer finds that the recipient has demonstrated substantial compliance with the requirements of WIOA sec. 184(d)(2).

(b)(1) When the debt for which a waiver request was established in a non-Federal resolution proceeding, the resolution report must accompany the waiver request.

(2) When the waiver request is made during the ETA Grant Officer resolution process, the request must be made during the informal resolution period described in ยง 683.440(c).

(c) A waiver of the recipient's liability must be considered by the Grant Officer only when:

(1) The misexpenditure of WIOA funds occurred at a subrecipient's level;

(2) The misexpenditure was not due to willful disregard of the requirements of title I of WIOA, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration, and did not constitute fraud or failure to make the required disclosures in accordance with 2 CFR 200.113 addressing all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery or gratuity violations (2 CFR part 180 and 31 U.S.C. 3321)

(3) If fraud did exist, was perpetrated against the recipient/subrecipients, and:

(i) The recipient/subrecipients discovered, investigated, reported, and cooperated in any prosecution of the perpetrator of the fraud; and

(ii) After aggressive debt collection action, it has been documented that further attempts at debt collection from the perpetrator of the fraud would be inappropriate or futile;

(4) The recipient has issued a final determination which disallows the misexpenditure, the recipient's appeal process has been exhausted, and a debt has been established; and

(5) The recipient provides documentation to demonstrate that it has substantially complied with the requirements of WIOA sec. 184(d)(2) and this section.

(d) The recipient will not be released from liability for misspent funds under the determination required by WIOA sec. 184(d) unless the Grant Officer determines that further collection action, either by the recipient or subrecipient(s), would be inappropriate or would prove futile.
