
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart G - Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
##### ยง 683.720 What actions are required to address the failure of a local area to comply with the applicable uniform administrative provisions?

(a) If, as part of the annual on-site monitoring of local areas, the Governor determines that a local area is not in compliance with 2 CFR part 200, including the failure to make the required disclosures in accordance with 2 CFR 200.113 or the failure to disclose all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery or gratuity violations, the Governor must:

(1) Require corrective action to secure prompt compliance; and

(2) Impose the sanctions provided for at WIOA sec. 184(b) if the Governor finds that the local area has failed to take timely corrective action.

(b) An action by the Governor to impose a sanction against a local area, in accordance with this section, may be appealed to the Secretary in accordance with ยง 683.650.

(c)(1) If the Secretary finds that the Governor has failed to monitor and certify compliance of local areas with the administrative requirements under WIOA sec. 184(a), or that the Governor has failed to take the actions promptly required upon a determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary must take the action described in ยง 683.700(b).

(2) If the Governor fails to take the corrective actions required by the Secretary under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary may immediately suspend or terminate financial assistance under WIOA sec. 184(e).
