
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart F - Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
##### ยง 683.650 What procedures apply to the appeals of the Governor's imposition of sanctions for substantial violations or performance failures by a local area?

(a) A local area which has been found in substantial violation of WIOA title I, and has received notice from the Governor that either all or part of the local plan will be revoked or that a reorganization will occur, may appeal such sanctions to the Secretary under WIOA sec. 184(b). The appeal must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the revoked plan or imposed reorganization.

(b) The sanctions described in paragraph (a) of this section do not become effective until:

(1) The time for appeal has expired; or

(2) The Secretary has issued the decision described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) A local area which has failed to meet local performance indicators for 3 consecutive program years, and has received the Governor's notice of intent to impose a reorganization plan, may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise such plan, in accordance with ยง 677.225 of this chapter.

(d) Appeals to the Secretary made under paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.

(e) The Secretary will notify the Governor and the appellant in writing of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (a) of this section within 45 days after receipt of the appeal. In making this determination, the Secretary may consider any comments submitted by the Governor in response to the appeals.
