
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart H - Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
##### ยง 683.800 What actions of the Department may be appealed to the Office of Administrative Law Judges?

(a) An applicant for financial assistance under title I of WIOA who is dissatisfied by a determination not to award Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to such applicant; or a recipient, subrecipient, or a contractor against which the Grant Officer has directly imposed a sanction or corrective action under sec. 184 of WIOA, including a sanction against a State under part 677 of this chapter, may appeal to the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) within 21 days of receipt of the final determination.

(b) Failure to request a hearing within 21 days of receipt of the final determination constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.

(c) A request for a hearing under this subpart must specifically state those issues or findings in the final determination upon which review is requested. Issues or findings in the final determination not specified for review, or the entire final determination when no hearing has been requested within the 21 days, are considered resolved and not subject to further review. Only alleged violations of WIOA, its regulations, the grant or other agreement under WIOA raised in the final determination and the request for hearing are subject to review.

(d) A request for a hearing must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, with one copy to the Departmental official who issued the determination.

(e) The procedures in this subpart apply in the case of a complainant who has engaged in the alternative dispute resolution process set forth in ยง 683.840, if neither a settlement was reached nor a decision issued within the 60 days, except that the request for hearing before the OALJ must be filed within 15 days of the conclusion of the 60-day period provided in ยง 683.840. In addition to including the final determination upon which review is requested, the complainant must include a copy of any Stipulation of Facts and a brief summary of proceedings.
