
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart H - Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
##### ยง 683.820 What authority does the Administrative Law Judge have in ordering relief as an outcome of an administrative hearing?

(a) In ordering relief the ALJ has the full authority of the Secretary under WIOA, except as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) In grant selection appeals of awards funded under WIOA title I, subtitle D:

(1) If the Administrative Law Judge rules, under ยง 683.800, that the appealing organization should have been selected for an award, the matter must be remanded to the Grant Officer. The Grant Officer must, within 10 working days, determine whether the organization continues to meet the requirements of the applicable solicitation, whether the funds which are the subject of the ALJ's decision will be awarded to the organization, and the timing of the award. In making this determination, the Grant Officer must take into account disruption to participants, disruption to grantees, and the operational needs of the program.

(2) If the Administrative Law Judge rules that additional application review is required, the Grant Officer must implement that review and, if a new organization is selected, follow the steps laid out in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine whether the grant funds will be awarded to that organization.

(3) In the event that the Grant Officer determines that the funds will not be awarded to the appealing organization for the reasons discussed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an organization which does not have an approved Negotiated Indirect Cost Rate Agreement will be awarded its reasonable application preparation costs.

(4) If funds are awarded to the appealing organization, the Grant Officer will notify the current grantee within 10 days. In addition, the appealing organization is not entitled to the full grant amount but only will receive the funds remaining in the grant that have not been obligated by the current grantee through its operation of the grant and its subsequent closeout.

(5) In the event that an organization, other than the appealing organization, is adversely effected by the Grant Officer's determination upon completion of the additional application review under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that organization may appeal that decision to the Office of Administrative Law Judges by following the procedures set forth in ยง 683.800.

(6) Any organization selected and/or funded under WIOA title I, subtitle D, is subject to having its award removed if an ALJ decision so orders. As part of this process, the Grant Officer will provide instructions on transition and closeout to both the newly selected grantee and to the grantee whose position is affected or which is being removed. All awardees must agree to the provisions of this paragraph (b) as a condition of accepting a grant award.
