
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart G - Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
##### ยง 683.750 What procedure must be used for administering the offset/deduction provisions of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

(a)(1) For misexpenditures by direct recipients of title I and Wagner-Peyser Act formula funds the Grant Officer may determine that a debt, or a portion thereof, may be offset against amounts that are allotted to the recipient. Recipients must submit a written request for an offset to the Grant Officer. Generally, the Grant Officer will apply the offset against amounts that are available at the recipient level for administrative costs.

(2) The Grant Officer may approve an offset request, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the misexpenditures were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of WIOA and regulations, fraud, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure.

(b) For subrecipient misexpenditures that were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of WIOA and regulations, fraud, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure, if the Grant Officer has required the State to repay or offset such amount, the State may deduct an amount equal to the misexpenditure from the subrecipient's allocation of the program year after the determination was made. Deductions are to be made from funds reserved for the administrative costs of the local programs involved, as appropriate.

(c) If offset is granted, the debt will not be fully satisfied until the Grant Officer reduces amounts allotted to the recipient by the amount of the misexpenditure.

(d) For recipients of funds under title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds, a direct recipient may not make a deduction under paragraph (b) of this section until the State has taken appropriate corrective action to ensure full compliance within the local area with regard to appropriate expenditure of WIOA funds.
