
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 683 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart H - Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
##### ยง 683.830 When will the Administrative Law Judge issue a decision?

(a) The ALJ should render a written decision not later than 90 days after the closing of the record.

(b) The decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action unless, within 20 days of the decision, a party dissatisfied with the ALJ's decision has filed a petition for review with the Administrative Review Board (ARB) (established under Secretary's Order No. 01-2020), specifically identifying the procedure, fact, law, or policy to which exception is taken, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Any exception not specifically raised in the petition is deemed to have been waived. A copy of the petition for review also must be sent to the opposing party and if an applicant or recipient, to the Grant Officer and the Grant Officer's Counsel at the time of filing. Unless the ARB, within 30 days of the filing of the petition for review, notifies the parties that the case has been accepted for review, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action. In any case accepted by the ARB, a decision must be issued by the ARB within 180 days of acceptance. If a decision is not so issued, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action.
