
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart A - Purposes and Policies
##### ยง 684.110 How must Indian and Native American programs be administered?

(a) INA programs will be administered to maximize the Federal commitment to support the growth and development of INAs and their communities as determined by representatives of such communities.

(b) In administering these programs, the Department will follow the Congressional declaration of policy set forth in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, at 25 U.S.C. 450a, as well as the Department of Labor's "American Indian and Alaska Native Policies."

(c) The regulations in this part are not intended to abrogate the trust responsibilities of the Federal government to Federally recognized tribes in any way.

(d) The Department will administer INA programs through a single organizational unit and consistent with the requirements in sec. 166(i) of WIOA. The Division of Indian and Native American Programs (DINAP) within the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) is designated as this single organizational unit as required by sec. 166(i)(1) of WIOA.

(e) The Department will establish and maintain administrative procedures for the selection, administration, monitoring, and evaluation of INA employment and training programs authorized under this Act.
