
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
##### ยง 684.200 What are the requirements to apply for a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?

(a) To be eligible to apply for a WIOA, sec. 166 grant, an entity must have legal status as a government or as an agency of a government, private non-profit corporation, or a consortium whose members all qualify as one of these entities.

(b) A new entity (which is not an incumbent grantee) must have a population within the designated geographic service area which would receive at least $100,000 under the funding formula found at ยง 684.270(b), including any amounts received for supplemental youth services under the funding formula at ยง 684.440(a).

(c) Incumbent grantees which do not meet this dollar threshold and were receiving INA funding of less than $100,000 as of October 18, 2016 will be grandfathered into the program and are eligible to be awarded less than $100,000 so long as the grantees have continuously received less than $100,000 since October 18, 2016.

(d) The Department will make an exception to the $100,000 minimum for applicants that apply for WIOA funding through Public Law 102-477, the Indian, Employment, Training, and Related Services demonstration program, if all resources to be consolidated under the Public Law 102-477 plan total at least $100,000, with at least $20,000 derived from sec. 166 funds. However, incumbent Public Law 102-477 grantees that were receiving INA funding of less than $20,000 as of October 18, 2016 will be grandfathered into the program and are eligible to be awarded less than $20,000 so long as the grantees have continuously received less than $20,000 since October 18, 2016.

(e) To be eligible to apply as a consortium, each member of the consortium must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and must:

(1) Be in close proximity to one another, but may operate in more than one State;

(2) Have an administrative unit legally authorized to run the program and to commit the other members to contracts, grants, and other legally-binding agreements; and

(3) Be jointly and individually responsible for the actions and obligations of the consortium, including debts.

(f) Entities eligible under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are:

(1) Federally recognized Indian tribes;

(2) Tribal organizations, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b;

(3) Alaska Native-controlled organizations;

(4) Native Hawaiian-controlled organizations;

(5) Indian-controlled organizations serving INAs; and

(6) A consortium of eligible entities which meets the legal requirements for a consortium described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(g) State-recognized tribal organizations that meet the definition of an Indian-controlled organization are eligible to apply for WIOA sec. 166 grant funds. State-recognized tribes that do not meet this definition but were grantees under WIA as of July 1, 2015 will be grandfathered into WIOA as Indian-controlled organizations provided they meet the definition of Indian-controlled organization in ยง 684.130.
