
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Services to Customers
##### ยง 684.300 Who is eligible to receive services under the Indian and Native American program?

(a) A person is eligible to receive services under the INA program if that person is:

(1) An Indian, as determined by a policy of the INA program grantee. The grantee's definition must at least include anyone who is a member of a Federally-recognized tribe; or

(2) An Alaska Native, as defined in WIOA sec. 166(b)(1); or

(3) A Native Hawaiian, as defined in WIOA sec. 166(b)(3).

(b) The person also must be any one of the following:

(1) Unemployed; or

(2) Underemployed, as defined in ยง 684.130; or

(3) A low-income individual, as defined in sec. 3(36) of WIOA; or

(4) The recipient of a bona fide lay-off notice which has taken effect in the last 6 months or will take effect in the following 6-month period, who is unlikely to return to a previous industry or occupation, and who is in need of retraining for either employment with another employer or for job retention with the current employer; or

(5) An individual who is employed, but is determined by the grantee to be in need of employment and training services to obtain or retain employment that allows for self-sufficiency.

(c) If applicable, male applicants also must register or be registered for the Selective Service.
