
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Services to Customers
##### ยง 684.320 Are there any restrictions on allowable activities?

(a) Training services must be directly linked to an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the service area, or in another area to which a participant receiving such services is willing to relocate.

(b) INA program grantees must provide on-the-job training (OJT) services consistent with the definition provided in WIOA sec. 3(44) and other limitations in WIOA. Individuals in OJT must:

(1) Be compensated at the same rates, including periodic increases, as trainees or employees who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience, and skills; and

(2) Be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.

(c) In addition, OJT contracts under this title must not be entered into with employers who have:

(1) Received payments under previous contracts under WIOA or the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 and have exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued, long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits (including health benefits) and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work; or

(2) Have exhibited a pattern of violating paragraphs (b)(1) and/or (2) of this section.

(d) INA program grantees are prohibited from using funds to encourage the relocation of a business, as described in WIOA sec. 181(d) and ยง 683.260 of this chapter.

(e) INA program grantees must only use WIOA funds for activities that are in addition to those that would otherwise be available to the INA population in the area in the absence of such funds.

(f) INA program grantees must not spend funds on activities that displace currently employed individuals, impair existing contracts for services, or in any way affect union organizing.

(g) Under ยง 683.255 of this chapter, sectarian activities involving WIOA financial assistance or participants are limited in accordance with the provisions of sec. 188(a)(3) of WIOA.
