
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Services to Customers
##### ยง 684.310 What are Indian and Native American program grantee allowable activities?

(a) Generally, INA program grantees must make efforts to provide employment and training opportunities to eligible individuals (as described in ยง 684.300) who can benefit from, and who are most in need of, such opportunities. In addition, INA program grantees must make efforts to develop programs that contribute to occupational development, upward mobility, development of new careers, and opportunities for nontraditional employment.

(b) Allowable activities for INA program grantees are any services consistent with the purposes of this part that are necessary to meet the needs of INAs preparing to enter, reenter, or retain unsubsidized employment leading to self-sufficiency.

(c) Examples of career services, which may be delivered in partnership with the one-stop delivery system, are described in sec. 134(c)(2) of WIOA and ยง 678.430 of this chapter.

(d) Follow-up services, including counseling and supportive services for up to 12 months after the date of exit to assist participants in obtaining and retaining employment.

(e) Training services include the activities described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(D).

(f) Allowable activities specifically designed for youth, as listed in sec. 129 of WIOA, include:

(1) Tutoring, study skills training, instruction, and evidence-based dropout prevention and recovery strategies that lead to completion of the requirements for a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (including a recognized certificate of attendance or similar document for individuals with disabilities) or for a recognized postsecondary credential;

(2) Alternative secondary school services, or dropout recovery services, as appropriate;

(3) Paid and unpaid work experiences that have as a component academic and occupational education, which may include:

(i) Summer employment opportunities and other employment opportunities available throughout the school year;

(ii) Pre-apprenticeship programs;

(iii) Internships and job shadowing; and

(iv) On-the-job training opportunities;

(4) Occupational skill training, which must include priority consideration for training programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials that are aligned with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area involved;

(5) Education offered concurrently with and in the same context as workforce preparation activities and training for a specific occupation or occupational cluster;

(6) Leadership development opportunities, which may include community service and peer-centered activities encouraging responsibility and other positive social and civic behaviors, as appropriate;

(7) Supportive services as defined in WIOA sec. 3(59);

(8) Adult mentoring for the period of participation and a subsequent period, for a total of not less than 12 months;

(9) Follow-up services for not less than 12 months after the completion of participation, as appropriate;

(10) Comprehensive guidance and counseling, which may include drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral, as appropriate;

(11) Financial literacy education;

(12) Entrepreneurial skills training;

(13) Services that provide labor market and employment information about in-demand industry sectors or occupations available in the local area, such as career awareness, career counseling, and career exploration services; and

(14) Activities that help youth prepare for and transition to postsecondary education and training.

(g) In addition, allowable activities include job development and employment outreach, including:

(1) Support of the Tribal Employment Rights Office (TERO) program;

(2) Negotiation with employers to encourage them to train and hire participants;

(3) Establishment of linkages with other service providers to aid program participants;

(4) Establishment of management training programs to support tribal administration or enterprises; and

(5) Establishment of linkages with remedial education, such as adult basic education, basic literacy training, and training programs for limited English proficient (LEP) individuals, as necessary.

(h) Participants may be enrolled in more than one activity at a time and may be sequentially enrolled in multiple activities.

(i) Services may be provided to a participant in any sequence based on the particular needs of the participant.
