
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart B - Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
##### ยง 684.270 How are Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds allocated to Indian and Native American program grantees?

(a) Except for reserved funds described in paragraph (e) of this section and funds used for other program purposes under ยง 684.260, all funds available for WIOA sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(i) comprehensive workforce investment services program at the beginning of a program year will be allocated to INA program grantees for the geographic service area(s) awarded to them through the grant competition.

(b) Each INA program grantee will receive the sum of the funds calculated using the following formula:

(1) One-quarter of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of unemployed American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian individuals in the grantee's geographic service area(s) compared to all such unemployed persons in the United States.

(2) Three-quarters of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian individuals in poverty in the grantee's geographic service area(s) as compared to all such persons in poverty in the United States.

(3) The data and definitions used to implement these formulas are provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

(c) In years immediately following the use of new data in the formula described in paragraph (b) of this section, based upon criteria to be described in the Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the Department may utilize a hold harmless factor to reduce the disruption in grantee services which would otherwise result from changes in funding levels. This factor will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.

(d) The Department may reallocate funds from one INA program grantee to another if a grantee is unable to serve its area for any reason, such as audit or debt problems, criminal activity, internal (political) strife, failure to adhere to or meet grant terms and conditions, or lack of ability or interest. If a grantee has excess carry-in for a program year, the Department also may readjust the awards granted under the funding formula so that an amount that equals the previous program year's carry-in will be allocated to another INA program grantee(s).

(e) The Department may reserve up to one percent of the funds appropriated under WIOA sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(i) for any program year for TAT purposes. It will consult with the Native American Employment and Training Council in planning how the TAT funds will be used, designating activities to meet the unique needs of the INA communities served by the INA program. INA program grantees also will have access to resources available to other Department programs to the extent permitted under other law.
