
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Supplemental Youth Services
##### § 684.440 How is funding for supplemental youth services determined?

(a) Supplemental youth funding will be allocated to eligible INA program grantees on the basis of the relative number of INA youth between the ages of 14 and 24 living in poverty in the grantee's geographic service area compared to the number of INA youth between the ages of 14 and 24 living in poverty in all eligible geographic service areas. The Department reserves the right to redefine the supplemental youth funding stream in future program years, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, as program experience warrants and as appropriate data become available.

(b) The data used to implement this formula are provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

(c) The hold harmless factor described in § 684.270(c) also applies to supplemental youth services funding. This factor also will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.

(d) The reallocation provisions of § 684.270(d) also apply to supplemental youth services funding.

(e) Any supplemental youth services funds not allotted to a grantee or refused by a grantee may be used for the purposes outlined in § 684.270(e), as described in § 684.260. Any such funds are in addition to, and not subject to the limitations on, amounts reserved under § 684.270(e).
