
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Services to Customers
##### § 684.330 What is the role of Indian and Native American program grantees in the one-stop delivery system?

(a) In those local areas where an INA program grantee conducts field operations or provides substantial services, the INA program grantee is a required partner in the local one-stop delivery system and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in part 678 of this chapter. Consistent with those provisions, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the INA program grantee and the Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) over the operation of the one-stop center(s) in the Local WDB's workforce development area also must be executed. Where the Local WDB is an alternative entity under § 679.150 of this chapter, the INA program grantee must negotiate with the alternative entity on the terms of its MOU and the scope of its on-going role in the local workforce development system, as specified in §§ 678.420 and 678.500 through 678.510 of this chapter. In local areas with a large concentration of potentially eligible INA participants, which are in an INA program grantee's service area but in which the grantee does not conduct operations or provide substantial services, the INA program grantee should encourage such individuals to participate in the one-stop delivery system in that area in order to receive WIOA services.

(b) At a minimum, the MOU must contain the provisions listed in WIOA sec. 121(c) and:

(1) The exchange of information on the services available and accessible through the one-stop delivery system and the INA program;

(2) As necessary to provide referrals and case management services, the exchange of information on INA participants in the one-stop delivery system and the INA program; and

(3) Arrangements for the funding of services provided by the one-stop(s), consistent with the requirements that no expenditures may be made with INA program funds for individuals who are not eligible or for services not authorized under this part.

(c) Where the INA program grantee has failed to enter into a MOU with the Local WDB, the INA program grantee must describe in its 4-year plan the good-faith efforts made in order to negotiate an MOU with the Local WDB.

(d) Pursuant to WIOA sec. 121(h)(2)(D)(iv), INA program grantees will not be subject to the funding of the one-stop infrastructure unless otherwise agreed upon in the MOU under subpart C of part 678 of this chapter.
