
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - Services to Customers
##### ยง 684.340 What policies govern payments to participants, including wages, training allowances or stipends, or direct payments for supportive services?

(a) INA program grantees may pay training allowances or stipends to participants for their successful participation in and completion of education or training services (except such allowance may not be provided to participants in OJT). Allowances or stipends may not exceed the Federal or State minimum wage, whichever is higher.

(b) INA program grantees may not pay a participant in a training activity when the person fails to participate without good cause.

(c) If a participant in a WIOA-funded activity, including participants in OJT, is involved in an employer-employee relationship, that participant must be paid wages and fringe benefits at the same rates as trainees or employees who have similar training, experience and skills and which are not less than the higher of the applicable Federal, State, or local minimum wage.

(d) In accordance with the policy described in the 4-year plan submitted as part of the competitive process, INA program grantees may pay incentive bonuses to participants who meet or exceed individual employability or training goals established in writing in the individual employment plan.

(e) INA program grantees must comply with other restrictions listed in WIOA secs. 181 through 195, which apply to all programs funded under title I of WIOA, including the provisions on labor standards in WIOA sec. 181(b).
