
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart F - Accountability for Services and Expenditures
##### ยง 684.620 What performance indicators are in place for the Indian and Native American program?

(a) Pursuant to WIOA secs. 166(e)(5) and 166(h), the performance indicators at WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(i) apply to the INA program which must include:

(1) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;

(2) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;

(3) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;

(4) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (subject to WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(iii)) during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program;

(5) The percentage of program participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains toward such a credential or employment; and

(6) The indicators of effectiveness in serving employers established under WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(iv).

(b) In addition to the performance indicators at WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(i), the Department, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, must develop a set of performance indicators and standards that are applicable to the INA program.
