
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart F - Accountability for Services and Expenditures
##### ยง 684.630 What are the requirements for preventing fraud and abuse under the WIOA?

(a) INA program grantees must establish such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure the proper disbursal of, and accounting for, Federal funds. Such procedures must ensure that all financial transactions are conducted and records maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(b) Each INA program grantee must have rules to prevent conflict of interest by its governing body. These conflict of interest rules must include a rule prohibiting any member of any governing body or council associated with the INA program grantee from voting on any matter which would provide a direct financial benefit to that member, or to a member of his or her immediate family, in accordance with ยง 683.200(c)(5)(iii) of this chapter and 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900.

(c) Officers or agents of the INA program grantee must not solicit or personally accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from any actual or potential contractor, subgrantee, vendor, or participant. This rule also must apply to officers or agents of the grantee's contractors and/or subgrantees. This prohibition does not apply to:

(1) Any rebate, discount, or similar incentive provided by a vendor to its customers as a regular feature of its business; and

(2) Items of nominal monetary value distributed consistent with the cultural practices of the INA community served by the grantee.

(d) No person who selects program participants or authorizes the services provided to them may select or authorize services to any participant who is such a person's spouse, parent, sibling, or child unless:

(1)(i) The participant involved is a low-income individual; or

(ii) The community in which the participant resides has a population of less than 1,000 INAs combined; and

(2) The INA program grantee has adopted and implemented the policy described in the 4-year plan to prevent favoritism on behalf of such relatives.

(e) INA program grantees are subject to the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 8702 relating to kickbacks.

(f) No assistance provided under WIOA may involve political activities.

(g) INA program grantees must comply with the restrictions on lobbying activities pursuant to sec. 195 of WIOA and the restrictions on lobbying codified in the Department regulations at 29 CFR part 93.

(h) The provisions of 18 U.S.C. 665 and 666 prohibiting embezzlement apply to programs under WIOA.

(i) Recipients of financial assistance under WIOA sec. 166 are prohibited from discriminatory practices as outlined at WIOA sec. 188, and the regulations implementing WIA sec. 188, at 29 CFR part 38. However, this does not affect the legal requirement that all INA participants be INAs. Also, INA program grantees are not obligated to serve populations outside the geographic boundaries for which they receive funds. However, INA program grantees are not precluded from serving eligible individuals outside their geographic boundaries if the INA program grantee chooses to do so.
