
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 684 - INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart I - Miscellaneous Program Provisions
##### ยง 684.930 May Indian and Native American program grantees combine or consolidate their employment and training funds?
###### et seq.

Yes. INA program grantees may consolidate their employment and training funds under WIOA with assistance received from related programs in accordance with the provisions of the Public Law 102-477, the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992, as amended by Public Law 106-568, the Omnibus Indian Advancement Act of 2000 (25 U.S.C. 3401). WIOA funds consolidated under Public Law 102-477 are administered by Department of the Interior (DOI). Accordingly, the administrative oversight for funds transferred to DOI, including the reporting of financial expenditures and program outcomes are the responsibility of DOI. However, the Department must review the initial 477 plan and ensure that all Departmental programmatic and financial obligations have been met before WIOA funds are approved to be transferred to DOI and consolidated with other related programs. The initial plan must meet the statutory requirements of WIOA. After approval of the initial plan, all subsequent plans that are renewed or updated from the initial plan may be approved by DOI without further review by the Department.
