
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 685 - NATIONAL FARMWORKER JOBS PROGRAM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - The National Farmworker Jobs Program Services to Eligible Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers
##### ยง 685.360 What housing services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?

(a) Housing grantees must provide housing services to eligible MSFWs.

(b) Career services and training grantees may provide housing services to eligible MSFWs as described in their program plan.

(c) Housing services may include the following:

(1) Permanent housing that is owner-occupied, or occupied on a permanent, year-round basis (notwithstanding ownership) as the eligible MSFW's primary residence to which he/she returns at the end of the work or training day.

(i) Types of permanent housing may include rental units, single family homes, duplexes, and other multi-family structures, dormitories, group homes, and other housing types that provide short-term, seasonal, or year-round housing opportunities in permanent structures. Modular structures, manufactured housing, or mobile units placed on permanent foundations and supplied with appropriate utilities, and other infrastructure also are considered permanent housing.

(ii) Permanent housing services include but are not limited to: Investments in development services, project management, and resource development to secure acquisition, construction/renovation and operating funds, property management services, and program management. New construction, purchase of existing structures, and rehabilitation of existing structures, as well as the infrastructure, utilities, and other improvements necessary to complete or maintain those structures also may be considered part of managing permanent housing.

(2) Temporary housing that is not owner-occupied and is used by MSFWs whose employment requires occasional travel outside their normal commuting area.

(i) Types of temporary housing may include: Housing units intended for temporary occupancy located in permanent structures, such as rental units in an apartment complex or in mobile structures that provide short-term, seasonal housing opportunities; temporary structures that may be moved from site to site, dismantled and re-erected when needed for farmworker occupancy, closed during the off-season, or handled through other similar arrangements; off-farm housing operated independently of employer interest in, or control of, the housing; or on-farm housing located on property owned by an agricultural employer and operated by an entity such as an agricultural employer or a nonprofit organization; and other housing types that provide short-term, seasonal, or temporary housing opportunities in temporary structures.

(ii) Temporary housing services include but are not limited to: Managing temporary housing which may involve property management of temporary housing facilities, case management, and referral services, and emergency housing payments, including vouchers and cash payments for rent/lease and utilities.

(d) Permanent housing developed with NFJP funds must be promoted and made widely available to eligible MSFWs, but occupancy is not restricted to eligible MSFWs. Temporary housing services must only be provided to eligible MSFWs.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, NFJP funds used for housing assistance must ensure the provision of safe and sanitary temporary and permanent housing that meets the Federal housing standards at part 654 of this chapter (ETA housing for farmworkers) or 29 CFR 1910.10 (OSHA housing standards).

(f) When NFJP grantees provide temporary housing assistance that allows the participant to select the housing, including vouchers and cash payments for rent, lease, and utilities, NFJP grantees are not required to ensure that such housing meets the Federal housing standards at part 654 of this chapter or 29 CFR 1910.10.
