
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 685 - NATIONAL FARMWORKER JOBS PROGRAM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart C - The National Farmworker Jobs Program Services to Eligible Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers
##### ยง 685.350 What training services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?

(a) Grantees may provide the training activities described in WIOA secs. 167(d) and 134(c)(3)(D), and part 680 of this chapter to eligible MSFWs. These activities include, but are not limited to, occupational-skills training and on-the-job training (OJT). Eligible MSFWs are not required to receive career services prior to receiving training services.

(1) When providing OJT services NFJP grantees may reimburse employers for the extraordinary costs of training by up to 50 percent of the wage rate of the participant for OJT.

(2) Grantees also may increase the OJT reimbursement rate up to 75 percent of the wage rate of a participant under certain conditions, provided that such reimbursement is being provided consistent with the reimbursement rates used under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(H)(i) for the local area(s) in which the grantee operates its program.

(b) Training services must be directly linked to an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the service area, or in another area to which an eligible MSFW receiving such services is willing to relocate.

(c) Training activities must encourage the attainment of recognized postsecondary credentials as defined in ยง 685.110 when appropriate for an eligible MSFW.
