
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 685 - NATIONAL FARMWORKER JOBS PROGRAM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Performance Accountability, Planning, and Waiver Provisions
##### ยง 685.400 What are the indicators of performance that apply to the National Farmworker Jobs Program?

(a) For grantees providing career services and training, the Department will use the indicators of performance common to the adult and youth programs, described in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A).

(b) For grantees providing career services and training, the Department will reach agreement with individual grantees on the levels of performance for each of the primary indicators of performance, taking into account economic conditions, characteristics of the individuals served, and other appropriate factors, and using, to the extent practicable, the statistical adjustment model under WIOA sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(viii). Once agreement on the levels of performance for each of the primary indicators of performance is reached with individual grantees, the Department will incorporate the adjusted levels of performance in the grant plan. For the purposes of performance reporting, eligible MSFWs who receive any career services, youth services, training, or certain related assistance are considered participants as defined in ยง 677.150 of this chapter and must be included in performance calculations for the indicators of performance. Eligible MSFWs who receive only those services identified in ยง 677.150(a)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this chapter are not included in performance calculations for the indicators of performance described in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A).

(c) For grantees providing housing services only, grantees will use the total number of eligible MSFWs served and the total number of eligible MSFW families served as indicators of performance. Additionally, grantees providing permanent housing development activities will use the total number of individuals served and the total number of families served as indicators of performance.

(d) The Department may develop additional performance indicators with appropriate levels of performance for evaluating programs that serve eligible MSFWs and which reflect the State service area economy, local demographics of eligible MSFWs, and other appropriate factors. If additional performance indicators are developed, the levels of performance for these additional indicators must be negotiated with the grantee and included in the approved program plan.

(e) Grantees may develop additional performance indicators and include them in the program plan or in periodic performance reports.
