
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 686 - THE JOB CORPS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart E - Program Activities and Center Operations
##### ยง 686.505 What types of training must Job Corps centers provide?

(a) Job Corps centers must provide students with a career technical training program that is:

(1) Aligned with industry-recognized standards and credentials and with program guidance; and

(2) Linked to employment opportunities in in-demand industry sectors and occupations both in the area in which the center is located and, if practicable, in the area the student plans to reside after graduation.

(b) Each center must provide education programs, including: An English language acquisition program, high school diploma or high school equivalency certification program, and academic skills training necessary for students to master skills in their chosen career technical training programs.

(c) Each center must provide programs for students to learn and practice employability and independent learning and living skills including: job search and career development, interpersonal relations, driver's education, study and critical thinking skills, financial literacy and other skills specified in program guidance.

(d) All Job Corps training programs must be based on industry and academic skills standards leading to recognized industry and academic credentials, applying evidence-based instructional approaches, and resulting in:

(1) Students' employment in unsubsidized, in-demand jobs with the potential for advancement opportunities;

(2) Enrollment in advanced education and training programs or apprenticeships, including registered apprenticeship; or

(3) Enlistment in the Armed Services.

(e) Specific career technical training programs offered by individual centers must be approved by the Regional Director according to policies issued by the Secretary.

(f) Center workforce councils described in ยง 686.810 must review appropriate labor market information, identify in-demand industry sectors and employment opportunities in local areas where students will look for employment, determine the skills and education necessary for those jobs, and as appropriate, recommend changes in the center's career technical training program to the Secretary.

(g) Each center must implement a system to evaluate and track the progress and achievements of each student at regular intervals.

(h) Each center must develop a training plan that must be available for review and approval by the appropriate Regional Director.
