
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 686 - THE JOB CORPS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Recruitment, Eligibility, Screening, Selection and Assignment, and Enrollment
##### § 686.450 How are applicants who meet eligibility and selection criteria assigned to centers?

(a) Each applicant who meets the application and selection requirements of §§ 686.400 and 686.410 is assigned to a center based on an assignment plan developed by the Secretary in consultation with the operators of Job Corps centers. The assignment plan identifies a target for the maximum percentage of students at each center who come from the State or region nearest the center, and the regions surrounding the center. The assignment plan is based on an analysis of the following non-exclusive list of factors that will be analyzed in consultation with center operators:

(1) The number of eligible individuals in the State and region where the center is located and the regions surrounding where the center is located;

(2) The demand for enrollment in Job Corps in the State and region where the center is located and in surrounding regions;

(3) The size and enrollment level of the center, including the education, training, and supportive services provided through the center; and

(4) The performance of the Job Corps center relating to the expected levels of performance for indicators described in WIOA sec. 159(c)(1), and whether any actions have been taken with respect to the center under secs. 159(f)(2) and 159(f)(3) of WIOA.

(b) Eligible applicants are assigned to the center that offers the type of career technical training selected by the individual, and among the centers that offer such career technical training, is closest to the home of the individual. The Secretary may waive this requirement if:

(1) The enrollee would be unduly delayed in participating in the Job Corps program because the closest center is operating at full capacity; or

(2) The parent or guardian of the enrollee requests assignment of the enrollee to another Job Corps center due to circumstances in the community that would impair prospects for successful completion by the enrollee.

(c) If a parent or guardian objects to the assignment of a student under the age of 18 to a center other than the center closest to home that offers the desired career technical training, the Secretary must not make such an assignment.
