
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 687 - NATIONAL DISLOCATED WORKER GRANTS
#### ยง 687.200 What are the program and administrative requirements that apply to National Dislocated Worker Grants?

(a) Unless otherwise authorized in a DWG agreement, the financial and administrative rules contained in part 683 of this chapter apply to awards under this part.

(b) Exceptions include:

(1) Funds provided in response to a disaster may be used for temporary job creation in areas declared eligible for public assistance by FEMA, and, in some instances, areas impacted by an emergency or disaster situation of national significance, as provided in ยง 687.110(b)(2), and subject to the limitations of sec. 170(d) of WIOA, this part, and any guidance issued by the Department;

(2) Per sec. 170(d)(4) of WIOA, in extremely limited instances, as determined by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee, any Disaster Recovery DWG funds that are available for expenditure under any grant awarded under this part may be used for additional disasters or situations of national significance experienced by an entity described in ยง 687.120(b) in the same program year the funds were awarded;

(3) DWG funds may be used to pay an appropriate level of administrative costs based on the design and complexity of the project. The Department will negotiate administrative costs with the applicant as part of the application review and grant award and modification processes. Administrative cost limits will be calculated against the amount of the grant awarded;

(4) The period of availability for expenditure of funds under a DWG is specified in the grant agreement;

(5) The Department may establish supplemental reporting, monitoring, and oversight requirements for DWGs. The requirements will be identified in the grant application instructions or the grant document; and

(6) The Department may negotiate and fund projects under terms other than those specified in this part where it can be clearly demonstrated that such adjustments will achieve a greater positive benefit for the workers and/or communities being assisted.
