
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter V - Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor
### PART 688 - PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Additional Requirements
##### ยง 688.730 What requirements apply to YouthBuild housing?

(a) YouthBuild grantees must ensure that all residential housing units which are constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds must be available solely for:

(1) Sale to homeless individuals and families or low-income families;

(2) Rental by homeless individuals and families or low-income families;

(3) Use as transitional or permanent housing for the purpose of assisting in the movement of homeless individuals and families to independent living. In the case of transitional housing, the unit(s) must be occupied no more than 24 months by the same individual(s); or

(4) Rehabilitation of homes for low-income homeowners.

(b) For rentals of residential units located on the property which are constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds:

(1) The property must maintain at least a 90 percent level of occupancy for low-income families. The income test will be conducted only at the time of entry for each available unit or rehabilitation of occupant-owned home. If the grantee cannot find a qualifying tenant to lease the unit, the unit may be leased to a family whose income is above the income threshold to qualify as a low-income family but below the median income for the area. Leases for tenants with higher incomes will be limited to not more than 2 years. The leases provided to tenants with higher incomes are not subject to the termination clause that is described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The property owner must not terminate the tenancy or refuse to renew the lease of a tenant occupying a residential rental housing unit constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds except for serious or repeated violations of the terms and conditions of the lease, for violation of applicable Federal, State, or local laws, or for good cause. Any termination or refusal to renew the lease must be preceded by not less than a 30-day written notice to the tenant specifying the grounds for the action. The property owner may waive the written notice requirement for termination in dangerous or egregious situations involving the tenant.

(c) All transitional or permanent housing for homeless individuals or families or low-income families must be safe and sanitary. The housing must meet all applicable State and local housing codes and licensing requirements in the jurisdiction in which the housing is located.

(d) For sales or rentals of residential housing units constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds, YouthBuild grantees must ensure that owners of the property record a restrictive covenant at the time that an occupancy permit is issued against such property which includes the use restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and incorporates the following definitions at ยง 688.120: Homeless individual, Low-income family, and Transitional housing. The term of the restrictive covenant must be at least 5 years from the time of the issuance of the occupancy permit, unless a time period of more than 5 years has been established by the grantee. The Department advises that any additional stipulations imposed by a grantee or property owner be clearly stated in the covenant.

(e) Any conveyance document prepared in the 5-year period of the restrictive covenant must inform the buyer of the property that all residential housing units constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds are subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
