
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 701 - GENERAL; ADMINISTERING AGENCY; DEFINITIONS AND USE OF TERMS
##### Special Rules for the Recreational Vessel Exclusion From the Definition of "Employee"
###### § 701.502 What types of work may exclude a recreational-vessel worker from the definition of "employee"?

(a) An individual who works on recreational vessels may be excluded from the definition of "employee" when:

(1) The individual's date of injury is before February 17, 2009, the injury is covered under a State workers' compensation law, and the individual is employed to:

(i) Build any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length; or

(ii) Repair any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length; or

(iii) Dismantle any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length.

(2) The individual's date of injury is on or after February 17, 2009, the injury is covered under a State workers' compensation law, and the individual is employed to:

(i) Build any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length; or

(ii) Repair any recreational vessel; or

(iii) Dismantle any recreational vessel to repair it.

(b) In applying paragraph (a) of this section, the following principles apply:

(1) "Length" means a straight line measurement of the overall length from the foremost part of the vessel to the aftmost part of the vessel, measured parallel to the center line. The measurement must be from end to end over the deck, excluding sheer. Bow sprits, bumpkins, rudders, outboard motor brackets, handles, and other similar fittings, attachments, and extensions are not included in the measurement.

(2) "Repair" means any repair of a vessel including installations, painting and maintenance work. Repair does not include alterations or conversions that render the vessel a non-recreational vessel under § 701.501. For example, a worker who installs equipment on a private yacht to convert it to a passenger-carrying whale-watching vessel is not employed to "repair" a recreational vessel. Repair also does not include alterations or conversions that render a non-recreational vessel recreational under § 701.501.

(3) "Dismantle" means dismantling any part of a vessel to complete a repair but does not include dismantling any part of a vessel to complete alterations or conversions that render the vessel a non-recreational vessel under § 701.501, or render the vessel recreational under § 701.501, or, if the date of injury is on or after February 17, 2009, to scrap or dispose of the vessel at the end of the vessel's life.
