
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Commutation of Payments and Special Fund
####### ยง 702.146 Source of the special fund.

(a) All amounts collected as fines and penalties under the several provisions of the Act shall be paid into the special fund (33 U.S.C. 44(c)(3)).

(b) Whenever an employee dies under circumstances creating a liability on an employer to pay death benefits to the employee's beneficiaries, and whenever there are no such beneficiaries entitled to such payments, the employer shall pay $5,000 into the special fund (Act, section 44(c)(1)). In such cases, the compensation order entered in the case shall specifically find that there is such liability and that there are no beneficiaries entitled to death benefits, and shall order payment by the employer into the fund. Compensation orders shall be made and filed in accordance with the regulations in subpart C of this part 702, except that for this purpose the district director settling the case under ยง 702.315 shall formalize the memorandum of conference in a compensation order, and shall file such order as provided for in ยง 702.349.

(c) The Director annually shall assess an amount against insurance carriers and self-insured employers authorized under the Act and part 703 of this subchapter to replenish the fund. That total amount to be charged all carriers and self-insurers to be assessed shall be based upon an estimate of the probable expenses of the fund during the calendar year. The assessment against each carrier and self-insurer shall be based upon (1) the ratio of the amount each paid during the prior calendar year for compensation in relation to the amount all such carriers of self-insurers paid during that period for compensation, and (2) the ratio of the amount of payments made by the special fund for all cases being paid under section 8(f) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(f), during the preceding calendar year which are attributable to the carrier or self-insurer in relation to the total of such payments during such year attributable to all carriers and self-insurers. The resulting sum of the percentages from paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section will be divided by two, and the resulting percentage multiplied by the probable expenses of the fund. The Director may, in his or her discretion, condition continuance or renewal of authorization under part 703 upon prompt payment of the assessment. However, no action suspending or revoking such authorization shall be taken without affording such carrier or self-insurer a hearing before the Director or his/her designee.
