
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Commutation of Payments and Special Fund
####### ยง 702.145 Use of the special fund.
######## Under section 10 of the Act.

(a)This section provides for initial and subsequent annual adjustments in compensation and continuing payments to beneficiaries in cases of permanent total disability or death which commenced or occurred prior to enactment of the 1972 Amendments to this Act (Pub. L. 92-576, approved Oct. 27, 1972). At the discretion of the Director, such payments may be paid directly by him to eligible beneficiaries as the obligation accrues, one-half from the special fund and one-half from appropriations, or he may require insurance carriers or self-insured employers already making payments to such beneficiaries to pay such additional compensation as the amended Act requires. In the latter case such carriers and self-insurers shall be reimbursed by the Director for such additional amounts paid, in the proportion of one-half the amount from the special fund and one-half the amount from appropriations. To obtain reimbursement, the carriers and self-insurers shall submit claims for payments made by them during previous periods at intervals of not less than 6 months. A form has been prescribed for such purpose and shall be used. No administrative claims service expense incurred by the carrier or self-insurer shall be included in the claim and no such expense shall be allowed. The amounts reimbursed to such carrier or self-insurer shall be limited to amounts actually due and previously paid to beneficiaries.

(b) Under section 8(f) of the Act (Second Injuries). In any case in which an employee having an existing permanent partial disability suffers injury, the employer shall provide compensation for such disability as is found to be attributable to that injury based upon the average weekly wages of the employee at the time of injury. If, following an injury falling within the provisions of section 8(c)(1)-(20), the employee with the pre-existing permanent partial disability becomes permanently and totally disabled after the second injury, but such total disability is found not to be due solely to his second injury, the employer (or carrier) shall be liable for compensation as provided by the provisions of section 8(c)(1)-(20) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1)-(20) or for 104 weeks, whichever is greater. However, if the injury is a loss of hearing covered by section 8(c)(13), 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(13), the liability shall be the lesser of these periods. In all other cases of a second injury causing permanent total disability (or death), wherein it is found that such disability (or death) is not due solely to the second injury, and wherein the employee had a pre-existing permanent partial disability, the employer (or carrier) shall first pay compensation under section 8(b) or (e) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(b) or (e), if any is payable thereunder, and shall then pay 104 weeks compensation for such total disability or death, and none otherwise. If the second injury results in permanent partial disability, and if such disability is compensable under section 8(c)(1)-(20) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1)-(20), but the disability so compensable did not result solely from such second injury, and the disability so compensable is materially and substantially greater than that which would have resulted from the second injury alone, then the employer (or carrier) shall only be liable for the amount of compensation provided for in section 8(c)(1)-(20) that is attributable to such second injury, or for 104 weeks, whichever is greater. However, if the injury is a loss of hearing covered by section 8(c)(13), 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(13), the liability shall be the lesser of these periods. In all other cases wherein the employee is permanently and partially disabled following a second injury, and wherein such disability is not attributable solely to that second injury, and wherein such disability is materially and substantially greater than that which would have resulted from the second injury alone, and wherein such disability following the second injury is not compensable under section 8(c)(1)-(20) of the Act, then the employer (or carrier) shall be liable for such compensation as may be appropriate under section 8(b) or (e) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(b) or (e), if any, to be followed by a payment of compensation for 104 weeks, and none other. The term "compensation" herein means money benefits only, and does not include medical benefits. The procedure for determining the extent of the employer's (or carrier's) liability under this paragraph shall be as provided for in the adjudication of claims in subpart C of this part 702. Thereafter, upon cessation of payments which the employer is required to make under this paragraph, if any additional compensation is payable in the case, the district director shall forward such case to the Director for consideration of an award to the person or persons entitled thereto out of the special fund. Any such award from the special fund shall be by order of the Director or Acting Director.
