
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Certification of Exemption
####### ยง 702.174 Exemptions; necessary information.
######## Application.

(a)Before any facility is exempt from coverage under the Act, the facility must apply for and receive a certificate of exemption from the Director or his/her designee. The application must be made by the owner of the facility; where the owner is a partnership it must be made by a partner and where a corporation by an officer of the corporation or the manager in charge of the facility for which an exemption is sought. The information submitted must include the following:

(1) Name, location, physical description and a site plan or aerial photograph of the facility for which an exemption is sought.

(2) Description of the nature of the business.

(3) An affidavit (signed by a partner if the facility is owned by a partnership or an officer if owned by a corporation) vertifying and/or acknowledging that:

(i) the facility is, as of the date of the application, engaged in the business of building, repairing or dismantling exclusively small commercial vessels and that it does not then nor foreseeably will it engage in the building, repairing or dismantling of other than small vessels.

(ii) The facility does not receive any Federal maritime subsidy.

(iii) The signator has the duty to immediately inform the district director of any change in these or other conditions likely to result in a termination of an exemption.

(iv) the employer has secured appropriate compensation liability under a State workers' compensation law.

(v) Any false, relevant statements relating to the application or the failure to notify the district director of any changes in circumstances likely to result in termination of the exemption will be grounds for revocation of the exemption certificate and will subject the employer to all provisions of the Act, including all duties, responsibilities and penalties, retroactive to the date of application or date of change in circumstances, as appropriate.
