
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Certification of Exemption
####### ยง 702.175 Effect of work on excluded vessels; reinstatement of certification.
######## i.e.

(a) When a vessel other than a small commercial vessel, as defined in ยง 702.172, enters a facility which has been certified as exempt from coverage, the exemption shall automatically terminate as of the date such a vessel enters the facility. The exemption shall also terminate on the date a contract for a Federal maritime subsidy is entered into, and, in the situation where the facility undertakes to build a vessel other than a small vessel, when the construction first takes on the characteristics of a vessel,, when the keel is laid. All duties, obligations and requirements imposed by the Act, including the duty to secure compensation liability as required by sections 4 and 32 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 904 and 932, and to keep records and forward reports, are effective immediately. The employer shall notify the Director or his/her designee immediately where this occurs.

(b) Where an exemption certification is terminated because of circumstances described in (a), the employer may apply for reinstatement of the exemption once the event resulting in termination of the exemption ends. The reapplication shall consist of a reaffirmation of the nature of the business, an explanation of the circumstances leading to the termination of exemption, and an affidavit by the appropriate person affirming that the circumstances prompting the termination no longer exists nor will they reoccur in the forseeable future and that the facility is engaged in building, repairing or dismantling exclusively small vessels. The Director or the Director's designee shall respond to the complete reapplication within ten working days of receipt.
