
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Claims Procedures
###### Agreed Settlements
####### ยง 702.242 Information necessary for a complete settlement application.

(a) The settlement application shall be a self-sufficient document which can be evaluated without further reference to the administrative file. The application shall be in the form of a stipulation signed by all parties and shall contain a brief summary of the facts of the case to include: a description of the incident, a description of the nature of the injury to include the degree of impairment and/or disability, a description of the medical care rendered to date of settlement, and a summary of compensation paid and the compensation rate or, where benefits have not been paid, the claimant's average weekly wage.

(b) The settlement application shall contain the following:

(1) A full description of the terms of the settlement which clearly indicates, where appropriate, the amounts to be paid for compensation, medical benefits, survivor benefits and representative's fees which shall be itemized as required by ยง 702.132.

(2) The reason for the settlement, and the issues which are in dispute, if any.

(3) The claimant's date of birth and, in death claims, the names and birth dates of all dependents.

(4) Information on whether or not the claimant is working or is capable of working. This should include, but not be limited to, a description of the claimant's educational background and work history, as well as other factors which could impact, either favorably or unfavorably, on future employability.

(5) A current medical report which fully describes any injury related impairment as well as any unrelated conditions. This report shall indicate whether maximum medical improvement has been reached and whether further disability or medical treatment is anticipated. If the claimant has already reached maximum medical improvement, a medical report prepared at the time the employee's condition stabilized will satisfy the requirement for a current medical report. A medical report need not be submitted with agreements to settle survivor benefits unless the circumstances warrant it.

(6) A statement explaining how the settlement amount is considered adequate.

(7) If the settlement application covers medical benefits an itemization of the amount paid for medical expenses by year for the three years prior to the date of the application. An estimate of the claimant's need for future medical treatment as well as an estimate of the cost of such medical treatment shall also be submitted which indicates the inflation factor and/or the discount rate used, if any. The adjudicator may waive these requirements for good cause.

(8) Information on any collateral source available for the payment of medical expenses.
