
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Claims Procedures
###### Agreed Settlements
####### ยง 702.243 Settlement application; how submitted, how approved, how disapproved, criteria.

(a) When the parties to a claim for compensation, including survivor benefits and medical benefits, agree to a settlement they must submit a complete application to the adjudicator. The application must contain all the information outlined in ยง 702.242 and must be sent by certified mail with return receipt requested, commercial delivery service with tracking capability that provides reliable proof of delivery to the adjudicator, or electronically through an OWCP-authorized system. Failure to submit a complete application will toll the thirty day period mentioned in section 8(i) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(i), until a complete application is received.

(b) The adjudicator must consider the settlement application within thirty days and either approve or disapprove the application. The liability of an employer/insurance carrier is not discharged until the settlement is specifically approved by a compensation order issued by the adjudicator. However, if the parties are represented by counsel, the settlement will be deemed approved unless specifically disapproved within thirty days after receipt of a complete application. This thirty day period does not begin until all the information described in ยง 702.242 has been submitted. The adjudicator will examine the settlement application within thirty days and must immediately serve on all parties notice of any deficiency. This notice must also indicate that the thirty day period will not commence until the deficiency is corrected.

(c) If the adjudicator disapproves a settlement application, the adjudicator must serve on all parties a written statement or order containing the reasons for disapproval. This statement must be served within thirty days of receipt of a complete application (as described in ยง 702.242) if the parties are represented by counsel. If the disapproval was made by a district director, any party to the settlement may request a hearing before an ALJ as provided in sections 8 and 19 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908 and 919, or an amended application may be submitted to the district director. If, following the hearing, the ALJ disapproves the settlement, the parties may: (1) Submit a new application, (2) file an appeal with the Benefits Review Board as provided in section 21 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 921, or (3) proceed with a hearing on the merits of the claim. If the application is initially disapproved by an ALJ, the parties may (1) submit a new application or (2) proceed with a hearing on the merits of the claim.

(d) The parties may submit a settlement application solely for compensation, or solely for medical benefits or for compensation and medical benefits combined.

(e) If either portion of a combined compensation and medical benefits settlement application is disapproved the entire application is disapproved unless the parties indicate on the face of the application that they agree to settle either portion independently.

(f) When presented with a settlement, the adjudicator must review the application and determine whether, considering all of the circumstances, including, where appropriate, the probability of success if the case were formally litigated, the amount is adequate. The criteria for determining the adequacy of the settlement application will include, but not be limited to:

(1) The claimant's age, education and work history;

(2) The degree of the claimant's disability or impairment;

(3) The availability of the type of work the claimant can do;

(4) The cost and necessity of future medical treatment (where the settlement includes medical benefits).

(g) In cases being paid pursuant to a final compensation order, where no substantive issues are in dispute, a settlement amount which does not equal the present value of future compensation payments commuted, computed at the discount rate specified below, must be considered inadequate unless the parties to the settlement show that the amount is adequate. The probability of the death of the beneficiary before the expiration of the period during which he or she is entitled to compensation will be determined according to the most current United States Life Table, as developed by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, which will be updated from time to time. The discount rate will be equal to the coupon issue yield equivalent (as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury) of the average accepted auction price for the last auction of 52 weeks U.S. Treasury Bills settled immediately prior to the date of the submission of the settlement application.
