
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Claims Procedures
###### Report of Earnings
####### ยง 702.286 Report of earnings; forfeiture of compensation.

(a) Any employee who fails to submit the report on earnings from employment or self-employment under ยง 702.285 or, who knowingly and willingly omits or understates any part of such earnings, shall upon a determination by the district director forfeit all right to compensation with respect to any period during which the employee was required to file such a report. The employee must return the completed report on earnings (even where he or she reports no earnings) within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt; this period may be extended for good cause, by the district director, in determining whether a violation of this requirement has occurred.

(b) Any employer or carrier who believes that a violation of paragraph (a) of this section has occurred may file a charge with the district director. The allegation shall be accompanied by evidence which includes a copy of the report, with proof of service requesting the information from the employee and clearly stating the dates for which the employee was required to report income. Where the employer/carrier is alleging an omission or understatement of earnings, it shall, in addition, present evidence of earnings by the employee during that period, including copies of checks, affidavits from employers who paid the employee earnings, receipts of income from self-employment or any other evidence showing earnings not reported or underreported for the period in question. Where the district director finds the evidence sufficient to support the charge he or she shall convene an informal conference as described in subpart C and shall issue a compensation order affiming or denying the charge and setting forth the amount of compensation for the specified period. If there is a conflict over any issue relating to this matter any party may request a formal hearing before an Administrative Law Judge as described in subpart C.

(c) Compensation forfeited under paragraph (b) of this section, if already paid, shall be recovered by a deduction from the compensation payable to the employee if any, on such schedule as determined by the district director. The district director's discretion in such cases extends only to rescheduling repayment by crediting future compensation and not to whether and in what amounts compensation is forfeited. For this purpose, the district director shall consider the employee's essential expenses for living, income from whatever source, and assets, including cash, savings and checking accounts, stocks, bonds, and other securities.
