
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart C - Adjudication Procedures
###### Interlocutory Matters, Supplementary Orders, and Modifications
####### ยง 702.373 Modification of awards.

(a) Upon his/her own initiative, or upon application of any party in interest (including an employer or carrier which has been granted relief under section 8(f) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(f)), the district director may review any compensation case (including a case under which payments are made pursuant to section 44(i) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944(i)) in accordance with the procedure in subpart C of this part, and after such review of the case under ยง 702.315, or review at formal hearings under the regulations governing formal hearings in subpart C of this part, file a new compensation order terminating, continuing, reinstating, increasing or decreasing such compensation, or awarding compensation. Such new order shall not affect any compensation previously paid, except that an award increasing the compensation rate may be made retroactive from the date of injury, and if any part of the compensation due or to become due is unpaid, an award decreasing the compensation rate may be made effective from the date of the injury, and any payment made prior thereto in excess of such decreased rate shall be deducted from any unpaid compensation, in such manner and by such method as may be determined by the district director or the administrative law judge. Settlements cannot be modified.

(b) Review of a compensation case under this section may be made at any time prior to 1 year after the date of the last payment of compensation, whether or not a compensation order has been issued, or at any time prior to 1 year after the rejection of a claim.

(c) Review of a compensation case may be had only for the reason that there is a change in conditions or that there was a mistake in the determination of facts.

(d) If the investigation, described in ยง 702.148(c), discloses a change in conditions and the employer or insurance carrier intends to pursue modification of the award of compensation the district director and claimant shall be notified through an informal conference. At the conclusion of the informal conference the district director shall issue a recommendation either for or against the modification. This recommendation shall also be sent to the Associate Director, Division of Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation (DLHWC) for a determination on whether or not to participate in the modification proceeding on behalf of the special fund. Lack of concurrence of the Associate Director, DLHWC or lack of participation by a representative of the special fund shall not be a bar to the modification proceeding.
