
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 702 - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart D - Medical Care and Supervision
###### Debarment of Physicians and Other Providers of Medical Services and Suppliers and Claims Representatives
####### ยง 702.433 Requests for hearing.

(a) A request for hearing must be sent to the district director and contain a concise notice of the issues on which the physician, health care provider or claims representative desires to give evidence at the hearing with identification of witnesses and documents to be submitted at the hearing.

(b) If a request for hearing is timely received by the district director, the matter must be referred to the Chief Administrative Law Judge who must assign it for hearing with the assigned administrative law judge issuing a notice of hearing for the conduct of the hearing. A copy of the hearing notice must be served on the physician, health care provider or claims representative.

(c) If a request for hearing contains identification of witnesses or documents not previously considered by the Director, the Director may make application to the assigned administrative law judge for an offer of proof from the physician, health care provider or claims representative for the purpose of discovery prior to hearing. If the offer of proof indicates injection of new issues or new material evidence not previously considered by the Director, the Director may request a remand order for purposes of reconsideration of the decision made pursuant to ยง 702.432 of these regulations.

(d) The parties may make application for the issuance of subpoenas upon a showing of good cause therefore to the administrative law judge.

(e) The administrative law judge will issue a recommended decision after the termination of the hearing. The recommended decision must contain appropriate findings, conclusions, and a recommended order and be forwarded, together with the record of the hearing, to the Administrative Review Board for a decision. The recommended decision must be served upon all parties to the proceeding.

(f) Based upon a review of the record and the recommended decision of the administrative law judge, the Administrative Review Board will issue a decision.
