
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 703 - INSURANCE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Authorization of Insurance Carriers
###### ยง 703.102 Applications for authority to write insurance; how filed; evidence to be submitted; other requirements.

An application for authority to write insurance under this Act shall be made in writing, signed by an officer of the applicant duly authorized to make such application, and transmitted to the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Such application shall be accompanied by full and complete information regarding the history and experience of such applicant in the writing of workmen's compensation insurance, together with evidence that it has authority in its charter or form of organization to write such insurance, and evidence that the applicant is currently authorized to insure workmen's compensation liability under the laws of the United States or of any State. The statements of fact in each application and in the supporting evidence shall be verified by the oath of the officer of the applicant who signs such application. Each applicant shall state in its application the area or areas, in which it intends to do business. In connection with any such application the following shall be submitted, the Office reserving the right to call for such additional information as it may deem necessary in any particular case:

(a) A copy of the last annual report made by the applicant to the insurance department or other authority of the State in which it is incorporated, or the State in which its principal business is done.

(b) A certified copy from the proper State authorities of the paper purporting to show the action taken upon such report, or such other evidence as the applicant desires to submit in respect of such report, which may obviate delay caused by an inquiry of the OWCP of the State authorities relative to the standing and responsibility of the applicant.

(c) A full and complete statement of its financial condition, if not otherwise shown, and, if a stock company, shall show specifically its capital stock and surplus.

(d) A copy of its charter or other formal outline of its organization, its rules, its bylaws, and other documents, writings, or agreements by and under which it does business, and such other evidence as it may deem proper to make a full exposition of its affairs and financial condition.
