
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter A - Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and Related Statutes
#### PART 703 - INSURANCE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Authorization of Self-Insurers
###### ยง 703.302 Application for authority to become a self-insurer; how filed; information to be submitted; other requirements.

(a) Any employer may apply to become an authorized self-insurer. The application must be addressed to the Branch of Financial Management and Insurance (Branch) within OWCP's Division of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation, and be made on a form provided by OWCP. The application must contain-

(1) A statement of the employer's total payroll for the 12 months before the application date;

(2) A statement of the average number of employees engaged in employment within the purview of the LHWCA or any of its extensions for the 12 months before the application date;

(3) A statement of the number of injuries to such employees resulting in disability of more than 7 days' duration, or in death, during each of the 5 years before the application date;

(4) A certified financial report for each of the three years before the application date;

(5) A description of the facilities maintained or the arrangements made for the medical and hospital care of injured employees;

(6) A statement describing the provisions and maximum amount of any excess or catastrophic insurance; and

(7) Any other information the Branch requests to enable it to give the application adequate consideration including, but not limited to, the reports set forth at ยง 703.310.

(b) The employer must sign and swear to the application. If the employer is not an individual, the employer's duly authorized officer must sign and swear to the application and list his or her official designation. If the employer is a corporation, the officer must also affix the corporate seal.

(c) At any time after filing an application, the employer must inform the Branch immediately of any material changes that may have rendered its application incomplete, inaccurate or misleading.

(d) By filing an application, the employer consents to be bound by and to comply with the regulations and requirements in this part.
