
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 718 - STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING COAL MINERS' TOTAL DISABILITY OR DEATH DUE TO PNEUMOCONIOSIS
##### Appendix B to Part 718 - Standards for Administration and Interpretation of Pulmonary Function Tests. Tables B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6.
###### But see

(iii) For the MVV, the subject shall be instructed before beginning the test that he or she will be asked to breathe as deeply and as rapidly as possible for approximately 15 seconds. The test shall be performed with the subject in the standing position, if possible. Care shall be taken on repeat testing that the same position be used. The subject shall breathe normally into the mouthpiece of the apparatus for 10 to 15 seconds to become accustomed to the system. The subject shall then be instructed to breathe as deeply and as rapidly as possible, and shall be continually encouraged during the remainder of the maneuver. Subject shall continue the maneuver for 15 seconds. At least 5 minutes of rest shall be allowed between maneuvers. At least three MVV's shall be carried out. (ยง 718.103(b).) During the maneuvers the patient shall be observed for compliance with instructions. The effort shall be judged unacceptable when the patient:

(A) Has not maintained consistent effort for at least 12 to 15 seconds; or

(B) Has coughed or closed his glottis; or

(C) Has an obstructed mouthpiece or a leak around the mouthpiece (obstruction due to tongue being placed in front of mouthpiece, false teeth falling in front of mouthpiece, etc.); or

(D) Has an excessive variability between the three acceptable curves. The variation between the two largest MVVs of the three satisfactory tracings shall not exceed 10 percent.

(iv) A calibration check shall be performed on the instrument each day before use, using a volume source of at least three liters, accurate to within +/-1 percent of full scale. The volume calibration shall be performed in accordance with the method described in paragraph (1)(vii) of this Appendix. Accuracy of the time measurement used in determining the FEV1 shall be checked using the manufacturer's stated procedure and shall be within +/-3 percent of actual. The procedure described in the Appendix shall be performed as well as any other procedures suggested by the manufacturer of the spirometer being used.

(v)(A) The first step in evaluating a spirogram for the FVC and FEV1 shall be to determine whether or not the patient has performed the test properly or as described in (2)(ii) of this Appendix. The largest recorded FVC and FEV1, corrected to BTPS, shall be used in the analysis.

(B) Only MVV maneuvers which demonstrate consistent effort for at least 12 seconds shall be considered acceptable. The largest accumulated volume for a 12 second period corrected to BTPS and multiplied by five or the largest accumulated volume for a 15 second period corrected to BTPS and multiplied by four is to be reported as the MVV.
