
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 725.3 Contents of this part.

(a) This subpart describes the statutory provisions which relate to claims considered under this part, the purpose and scope of this part, definitions and usages of terms applicable to this part, and matters relating to the availability of information collected by the Department of Labor in connection with the processing of claims.

(b) Subpart B contains criteria for determining who may be found entitled to benefits under this part and other provisions relating to the conditions and duration of eligibility of a particular individual.

(c) Subpart C describes the procedures to be followed and action to be taken in connection with the filing of a claim under this part.

(d) Subpart D sets forth the duties and powers of the persons designated by the Secretary of Labor to adjudicate claims and provisions relating to the rights of parties and representatives of parties.

(e) Subpart E contains the procedures for developing evidence and adjudicating entitlement and liability issues by the district director.

(f) Subpart F describes the procedures to be followed if a hearing before the Office of Administrative Law Judges is required.

(g) Subpart G contains provisions governing the identification of a coal mine operator which may be liable for the payment of a claim.

(h) Subpart H contains provisions governing the payment of benefits with respect to an approved claim.

(i) Subpart I describes the statutory mechanisms provided for the enforcement of a coal mine operator's liability, sets forth the penalties which may be applied in the case of a defaulting coal mine operator, and describes the obligation of coal operators and their insurance carriers to file certain reports.

(j) Subpart J describes the right of certain beneficiaries to receive medical treatment benefits and vocational rehabilitation under the Act.
