
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 725.102 Disclosure of program information.

(a) All reports, records, or other documents filed with the OWCP with respect to claims are the records of the OWCP. The Director or his or her designee shall be the official custodian of those records maintained by the OWCP at its national office. The District Director shall be the official custodian of those records maintained at a district office.

(b) The official custodian of any record sought to be inspected shall permit or deny inspection in accordance with the Department of Labor's regulations pertaining thereto (see 29 CFR Part 70). The original record in any such case shall not be removed from the Office of the custodian for such inspection. The custodian may, in his or her discretion, deny inspection of any record or part thereof which is of a character specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) if in his or her opinion such inspection may result in damage, harm, or harassment to the beneficiary or to any other person. For special provisions concerning release of information regarding injured employees undergoing vocational rehabilitation, see ยง 702.508 of this chapter.

(c) Any person may request copies of records he or she has been permitted to inspect. Such requests shall be addressed to the official custodian of the records sought to be copied. The official custodian shall provide the requested copies under the terms and conditions specified in the Department of Labor's regulations relating thereto (see 29 CFR Part 70).

(d) Any party to a claim (ยง 725.360) or his or her duly authorized representative shall be permitted upon request to inspect the file which has been compiled in connection with such claim. Any party to a claim or representative of such party shall upon request be provided with a copy of any or all material contained in such claim file. A request for information by a party or representative made under this paragraph shall be answered within a reasonable time after receipt by the Office. Internal documents prepared by the district director which do not constitute evidence of a fact which must be established in connection with a claim shall not be routinely provided or presented for inspection in accordance with a request made under this paragraph.
