
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Persons Entitled to Benefits, Conditions, and Duration of Entitlement
###### Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner
####### ยง 725.202 Miner defined; condition of entitlement, miner.
######## Coal mine construction and transportation workers; special provisions.

(b)A coal mine construction or transportation worker shall be considered a miner to the extent such individual is or was exposed to coal mine dust as a result of employment in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility. A transportation worker shall be considered a miner to the extent that his or her work is integral to the extraction or preparation of coal. A construction worker shall be considered a miner to the extent that his or her work is integral to the building of a coal or underground mine (see ยง 725.101(a)(12), (30)).

(1) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that such individual was exposed to coal mine dust during all periods of such employment occurring in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility for purposes of:

(i) Determining whether such individual is or was a miner;

(ii) Establishing the applicability of any of the presumptions described in section 411(c) of the Act and part 718 of this subchapter; and

(iii) Determining the identity of a coal mine operator liable for the payment of benefits in accordance with ยง 725.495.

(2) The presumption may be rebutted by evidence which demonstrates that:

(i) The individual was not regularly exposed to coal mine dust during his or her work in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility; or

(ii) The individual did not work regularly in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility.

(c) A person who is or was a self-employed miner or independent contractor, and who otherwise meets the requirements of this paragraph, shall be considered a miner for the purposes of this part.
