
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart C - Filing of Claims
###### ยง 725.301 Who may file a claim.

(a) Any person who believes he or she may be entitled to benefits under the Act may file a claim in accordance with this subpart.

(b) A claimant who has attained the age of 18, is mentally competent and physically able, may file a claim on his or her own behalf.

(c) If a claimant is unable to file a claim on his or her behalf because of a legal or physical impairment, the following rules shall apply:

(1) A claimant between the ages of 16 and 18 years who is mentally competent and not under the legal custody or care of another person, or a committee or institution, may upon filing a statement to the effect, file a claim on his or her own behalf. In any other case where the claimant is under 18 years of age, only a person, or the manager or principal officer of an institution having legal custody or care of the claimant may file a claim on his or her behalf.

(2) If a claimant over 18 years of age has a legally appointed guardian or committee, only the guardian or committee may file a claim on his or her behalf.

(3) If a claimant over 18 years of age is mentally incompetent or physically unable to file a claim and is under the care of another person, or an institution, only the person, or the manager or principal officer of the institution responsible for the care of the claimant, may file a claim on his or her behalf.

(4) For good cause shown, the Office may accept a claim executed by a person other than one described in paragraphs (c)(2) or (3) of this section.

(d) Except as provided in ยง 725.305, in order for a claim to be considered, the claimant must be alive at the time the claim is filed.
