
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart D - Adjudication Officers; Parties and Representatives
###### ยง 725.352 Disqualification of adjudication officer.

(a) No adjudication officer shall conduct any proceedings in a claim in which he or she is prejudiced or partial, or where he or she has any interest in the matter pending for decision. A decision to withdraw from the consideration of a claim shall be within the discretion of the adjudication officer. If that adjudication officer withdraws, another officer shall be designated by the Director or the Chief Administrative Law Judge, as the case may be, to complete the adjudication of the claim.

(b) No adjudication officer shall be permitted to appear or act as a representative of a party under this part while such individual is employed as an adjudication officer. No adjudication officer shall be permitted at any time to appear or act as a representative in connection with any case or claim in which he or she was personally involved. No fee or reimbursement shall be awarded under this part to an individual who acts in violation of this paragraph.

(c) No adjudication officer shall act in any claim involving a party which employed such adjudication officer within one year before the adjudication of such claim.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, no adjudication officer shall be permitted to act in any claim involving a party who is related to the adjudication officer by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree as determined by the law of the place where such party is domiciled. Any action taken by an adjudication officer in knowing violation of this paragraph shall be void.
