
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart C - Filing of Claims
###### § 725.310 Modification of awards and denials.
####### see

(iv) Paid all final orders awarding attorney's fees and expenses under § 725.367 and witness fees under § 725.459, but only if the underlying benefits order is final (§ 725.367(b)); and

(v) Reimbursed the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, with interest, for all benefits paid under the orders described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) or (iii) of this section and the costs for the medical examination under § 725.406.

(3) The requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section are inapplicable to any benefits owed pursuant to an effective but non-final order if the payment of such benefits has been stayed by the Benefits Review Board or appropriate court under 33 U.S.C. 921.

(4) Except as provided by paragraph (e)(5) of this section, the operator must submit all documentary evidence pertaining to its compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section to the district director concurrently with its request for modification. The claimant is also entitled to submit any relevant evidence to the district director. Absent extraordinary circumstances, no documentary evidence pertaining to the operator's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) at the time of the modification request will be admitted into the hearing record or otherwise considered at any later stage of the proceeding.

(5) The requirements imposed by paragraph (e)(2) of this section are continuing in nature. If at any time during the modification proceedings the operator fails to meet the payment obligations described, the adjudication officer must issue an order to show cause why the operator's modification request should not be denied and afford all parties time to respond to such order. Responses may include evidence pertaining to the operator's continued compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2). If, after the time for response has expired, the adjudication officer determines that the operator is not meeting its obligations, the adjudication officer must deny the operator's modification request.

(6) The denial of a request for modification under this section will not bar any future modification request by the operator, so long as the operator satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section with each future modification petition.

(7) The provisions of this paragraph apply to all modification requests filed on or after May 26, 2016.
