
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart F - Hearings
###### ยง 725.454 Time and place of hearing; transfer of cases.

(a) The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign a definite time and place for a formal hearing, and shall, where possible, schedule the hearing to be held at a place within 75 miles of the claimant's residence unless an alternate location is requested by the claimant.

(b) If the claimant's residence is not in any State, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may, in his or her discretion, schedule the hearing in the country of the claimant's residence.

(c) The Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned the case may in his or her discretion direct that a hearing with respect to a claim shall begin at one location and then later be reconvened at another date and place.

(d) The Chief Administrative Law Judge or administrative law judge assigned the case may change the time and place for a hearing, either on his or her own motion or for good cause shown by a party. The administrative law judge may adjourn or postpone the hearing for good cause shown, at any time prior to the mailing to the parties of the decision in the case. Unless otherwise agreed, at least 10 days notice shall be given to the parties of any change in the time or place of hearing.

(e) The Chief Administrative Law Judge may for good cause shown transfer a case from one administrative law judge to another.
