
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart H - Payment of Benefits
###### General Provisions
####### § 725.502 When benefit payments are due; manner of payment.

(a)(1) Except with respect to benefits paid by the fund pursuant to an initial determination issued in accordance with § 725.418 (see § 725.522), benefits under the Act shall be paid when they become due. Benefits shall be considered due after the issuance of an effective order requiring the payment of benefits by a district director, administrative law judge, Benefits Review Board, or court, notwithstanding the pendency of a motion for reconsideration before an administrative law judge or an appeal to the Board or court, except that benefits shall not be considered due where the payment of such benefits has been stayed by the Benefits Review Board or appropriate court. An effective order shall remain in effect unless it is vacated by an administrative law judge on reconsideration, or, upon review under section 21 of the LHWCA, by the Benefits Review Board or an appropriate court, or is superseded by an effective order issued pursuant to § 725.310.

(2) A proposed order issued by a district director pursuant to § 725.418 becomes effective at the expiration of the thirtieth day thereafter if no party timely requests revision of the proposed decision and order or a hearing (see § 725.419). An order issued by an administrative law judge becomes effective when it is filed in the office of the district director (see § 725.479). An order issued by the Benefits Review Board shall become effective when it is issued. An order issued by a court shall become effective in accordance with the rules of the court.

(b)(1) While an effective order requiring the payment of benefits remains in effect, monthly benefits, at the rates set forth in § 725.520, shall be due on the fifteenth day of the month following the month for which the benefits are payable. For example, benefits payable for the month of January shall be due on the fifteenth day of February.

(2) Within 30 days after the issuance of an effective order requiring the payment of benefits, the district director shall compute the amount of benefits payable for periods prior to the effective date of the order, in addition to any interest payable for such periods (see § 725.608), and shall so notify the parties. Any computation made by the district director under this paragraph shall strictly observe the terms of the order. Benefits and interest payable for such periods shall be due on the thirtieth day following issuance of the district director's computation. A copy of the current table of applicable interest rates shall be attached to the computation.

(c) Benefits are payable for monthly periods and shall be paid directly to an eligible claimant or his or her representative payee (see § 725.510) beginning with the month during which eligibility begins. Benefit payments shall terminate with the month before the month during which eligibility terminates. If a claimant dies in the first month during which all requirements for eligibility are met, benefits shall be paid for that month.
