
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart H - Payment of Benefits
###### Special Provisions for Operator Payments
####### ยง 725.530 Operator payments; generally.

(a) Benefits payable by an operator or carrier pursuant to an effective order issued by a district director, administrative law judge, Benefits Review Board, or court, or by an operator that has agreed that it is liable for the payment of benefits to a claimant, shall be paid by the operator or carrier immediately when they become due (see ยง 725.502(b)). An operator that fails to pay any benefits that are due, with interest, shall be considered in default with respect to those benefits, and the provisions of ยง 725.605 of this part shall be applicable. In addition, a claimant who does not receive any benefits within 10 days of the date they become due is entitled to additional compensation equal to twenty percent of those benefits (see ยง 725.607). Arrangements for the payment of medical costs shall be made by such operator or carrier in accordance with the provisions of subpart J of this part.

(b) Benefit payments made by an operator or carrier shall be made directly to the person entitled thereto or a representative payee if authorized by the district director. The payment of a claimant's attorney's fee, if any is awarded, shall be made directly to such attorney. Reimbursement of the fund, including interest, shall be paid directly to the Secretary on behalf of the fund.
