
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 725 - CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart I - Enforcement of Liability; Reports
###### ยง 725.605 Defaults.

(a) Except as is otherwise provided in this part, no suspension, termination or other failure to pay benefits awarded to a claimant is permitted. If an employer found liable for the payment of such benefits fails to make such payments within 30 days after any date on which such benefits are due and payable, the person to whom such benefits are payable may, within one year after such default, make application to the district director for a supplementary order declaring the amount of the default.

(b) If after investigation, notice and hearing as provided in subparts E and F of this part, a default is found, the district director or the administrative law judge, if a hearing is requested, shall issue a supplementary order declaring the amount of the default, if any. In cases where a lump-sum award has been made, if the payment in default is an installment, the district director or administrative law judge, may, in his or her discretion, declare the whole of the award as the amount in default. The applicant may file a certified copy of such supplementary order with the clerk of the Federal district court for the judicial district in which the operator has its principal place of business or maintains an office or for the judicial district in which the injury occurred. In case such principal place of business or office is in the District of Columbia, a copy of such supplementary order may be filed with the clerk of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Such supplementary order shall be final and the court shall, upon the filing of the copy, enter judgment for the amount declared in default by the supplementary order if such supplementary order is in accordance with law. Review of the judgment may be had as in civil suits for damages at common law. Final proceedings to execute the judgment may be had by writ of execution in the form used by the court in suits at common law in actions of assumpsit. No fee shall be required for filing the supplementary order nor for entry of judgment thereon, and the applicant shall not be liable for costs in a proceeding for review of the judgment unless the court shall otherwise direct. The court shall modify such judgment to conform to any later benefits order upon presentation of a certified copy thereof to the court.

(c) In cases where judgment cannot be satisfied by reason of the employer's insolvency or other circumstances precluding payment, the district director shall make payment from the fund, and in addition, provide any necessary medical, surgical, and other treatment required by subpart J of this part. A defaulting employer shall be liable to the fund for payment of the amounts paid by the fund under this section; and for the purpose of enforcing this liability, the fund shall be subrogated to all the rights of the person receiving such payments or benefits.
