
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VI - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as Amended
#### PART 726 - BLACK LUNG BENEFITS; REQUIREMENTS FOR COAL MINE OPERATOR'S INSURANCE
##### Subpart D - Civil Money Penalties
###### § 726.313 Decision and order of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) The Administrative Law Judge shall render a decision on the issues referred by the Director.

(b) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be limited to determining, where such issues are properly before him or her:

(1) Whether the operator has violated section 423 of the Act and § 726.4;

(2) Whether other persons identified by the Director as potentially severally liable for the penalty were the president, treasurer, or secretary of the corporation during the time period in question; and

(3) The appropriateness of the penalty assessed by the Director in light of the factors set forth in § 726.302. The Administrative Law Judge shall not render determinations on the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.

(c) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and bases therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Director.

(d) The Administrative Law Judge shall serve copies of the decision on each of the parties by certified mail.

(e) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be deemed to have been issued on the date that it is rendered, and shall constitute the final order of the Secretary unless there is a request for reconsideration by the Administrative Law Judge pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section or a petition for review filed pursuant to § 726.314.

(f) Any party may request that the Administrative Law Judge reconsider his or her decision by filing a motion within 30 days of the date upon which the decision of the Administrative Law Judge is issued. A timely motion for reconsideration shall suspend the running of the time for any party to file a petition for review pursuant to § 726.314.

(g) Following issuance of the decision and order, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall promptly forward the complete hearing record to the Director.
