
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Enrollment of Actuaries
##### ยง 901.11 Enrollment procedures.
###### Qualifying continuing professional education,In general.

(f)-(1)To qualify for continuing professional education credit an enrolled actuary must complete his/her hours of continuing professional education credit under a qualifying program, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, consisting of core and/or non-core subject matter. In addition, a portion of the continuing professional education credit may be earned under the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section. In any event, no less thanof the total hours of continuing professional education credit required for an enrollment cycle must be obtained by participation in a formal program or programs, within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.

(i) Core subject matter is program content and knowledge that is integral and necessary to the satisfactory performance of pension actuarial services and actuarial certifications under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. Such core subject matter includes the characteristics of actuarial cost methods under ERISA, actuarial assumptions, minimum funding standards, titles I, II, and IV of ERISA, requirements with respect to the valuation of plan assets, requirements for qualification of pension plans, maximum deductible contributions, tax treatment of distributions from qualified pension plans, excise taxes related to the funding of qualified pension plans and standards of performance (including ethical standards) for actuarial services. Core subject matter includes all materials included on the syllabi of any of the pension actuarial examinations offered by the Joint Board during the current enrollment cycle and the enrollment cycle immediately preceding the current enrollment cycle.

(ii) Non-core subject matter is program content designed to enhance the knowledge of an enrolled actuary in matters related to the performance of pension actuarial services. Examples include economics, computer programming, pension accounting, investment and finance, risk theory, communication skills, and business and general tax law.

(iii) The Joint Board may publish other topics or approve other topics which may be included in a qualifying program as core or non-core subject matter.

(iv) The same course of study cannot be used more than once within a given 36-month period to satisfy the continuing professional education requirements of these regulations. A program or session bearing the same or a similar title to a previous one may be used to satisfy the requirements of these regulations if the major content of the program or session differs substantively from the previous one.
