
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Enrollment of Actuaries
##### ยง 901.11 Enrollment procedures.
###### For renewal of enrollment effective April 1, 2014, and every third year thereafter.

(2)(i) A minimum of 36 hours of continuing professional education credit must be completed between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2013, and between January 1 and December 31 for each three-year period subsequent thereto.

(ii) An individual who receives initial enrollment during the first or second year of an enrollment cycle must satisfy the following requirements by the end of the enrollment cycle: Those enrolled during the first year of an enrollment cycle must complete 24 hours of continuing education; those enrolled during the second year of an enrollment cycle must complete 12 hours of continuing education. At least one-half of the applicable hours must be comprised of core subject matter; the remainder may be comprised of non-core subject matter. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2)(ii), credit will be awarded for continuing professional education completed after January 1 of the year in which initial enrollment was received.

(iii) An individual who receives initial enrollment during the third year of an enrollment cycle is exempt from the continuing education requirements until the next enrollment cycle, but must file a timely application for renewal.

(iv) For an individual who was initially enrolled before January 1, 2008 (and who has therefore completed at least one full enrollment cycle as of January 1, 2011), at least 12 hours of the 36 hours of continuing professional education required for each enrollment cycle must consist of core subject matter; the remainder may consist of non-core subject matter.

(v) For an individual who was initially enrolled on or after January 1, 2008, at least 18 hours of his or her 36 hours of continuing professional education required for the first full enrollment cycle must consist of core subject matter. Thereafter, for such individuals, for each subsequent enrollment cycle at least 12 hours of the 36 hours must consist of core subject matter. In each instance, the remainder may consist of non-core subject matter.

(vi) When core subject matter hours are required (including when an individual seeks to return to active status from inactive status), an individual must complete a minimum of two hours of continuing professional education credit relating to ethical standards, regardless of the total number of core hours required.
