
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Enrollment of Actuaries
##### ยง 901.11 Enrollment procedures.
###### Serving as an instructor, discussion leader or speaker.

(2)(i) Four credit hours (that is, 200 minutes) of continuing professional education credit will be awarded for each 50 minutes completed as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker at a qualifying program which meets the continuing professional education requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. If the qualifying program is a formal program with respect to the instructor, only the time spent during the actual program is counted toward satisfaction of the formal program requirement.

(ii) The credit for instruction and preparation may not exceed 50 percent of the continuing professional education requirement for an enrollment cycle.

(iii) Presentation of the same material as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker more than one time in any 36-month period will not qualify for continuing professional education credit. A program will not be considered to consist of the same material if a substantial portion of the content has been revised to reflect changes in the law or practices relative to the performance of pension actuarial service.

(iv) Credit as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker will not be awarded to panelists, moderators, or others who are not required to prepare substantive subject matter for their portion of the program. However, such individuals may be awarded credit for attendance, provided the other provisions of this section are met.

(v) The nature of the subject matter will determine if credit will be of a core or non-core nature.
