
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Enrollment of Actuaries
##### ยง 901.11 Enrollment procedures.
###### Failure to comply.

(l)(1) Compliance by an individual with the requirements of this part shall be determined by the Executive Director. An individual who applies for renewal of enrollment but who fails to meet the requirements of eligibility for renewal will be notified by the Executive Director at his/her last known address by first class mail. The notice will state the basis for the non-compliance and will provide the individual an opportunity to furnish in writing, within 60 days of the date of the notice, information relating to the matter. Such information will be considered by the Executive Director in making a final determination as to eligibility for renewal of enrollment.

(2) The Executive Director may require any individual, by first class mail sent to his/her mailing address of record with the Joint Board, to provide copies of any records required to be maintained under this section. The Executive Director may disallow any continuing professional education hours claimed if the individual concerned fails to comply with such requirements.

(3) An individual whose application for renewal is not approved may seek review of the matter by the Joint Board. A request for review and the reasons in support of the request must be filed with the Joint Board within 30 days of the date of the notice of failure to comply.
