
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Enrollment of Actuaries
##### ยง 901.12 Eligibility for enrollment.
###### Denial of enrollment.

(f)An applicant may be denied enrollment if:

(1) The Joint Board finds that the applicant, during the 15-year period immediately preceding the date of application and on or after the applicant's eighteenth birthday has engaged in disreputable conduct. The term disreputable conduct includes, but is not limited to:

(i) An adjudication, decision, or determination by a court of law, a duly constituted licensing or accreditation authority (other than the Joint Board), or by any federal or state agency, board, commission, hearing examiner, administrative law judge, or other official administrative authority, that the applicant has engaged in conduct evidencing fraud, dishonesty or breach of trust.

(ii) Giving false or misleading information, or participating in any way in the giving of false or misleading information, to the Department of the Treasury or the Department of Labor or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any officer or employee thereof in connection with any matter pending or likely to be pending before them, knowing such information to be false or misleading.

(iii) Willfully failing to make a Federal tax return in violation of the revenue laws of the United States, or evading, attempting to evade, or participating in any way in evading or attempting to evade any federal tax or payment thereof, knowingly counseling or suggesting to a client or prospective client an illegal plan to evade federal taxes or payment thereof, or concealing assets of himself or another to evade federal taxes or payment thereof.

(iv) Directly or indirectly attempting to influence, or offering or agreeing to attempt to influence, the official action of any officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury or the Department of Labor or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation by the use of threats, false accusations, duress or coercion, by the offer of any special inducement or promise of advantage or by the bestowing of any gift, favor, or thing of value.

(v) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an actuary, attorney, certified public accountant, public accountant, or an enrolled agent by any duly constituted authority of any state, possession, territory, Commonwealth, the District of Columbia, by any Federal Court of record, or by the Department of the Treasury.

(vi) Contemptuous conduct in connection with matters before the Department of the Treasury, or the Department of Labor, or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation including the use of abusive language, making false accusations and statements knowing them to be false, or circulating or publishing malicious or libelous matter.

(2) The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses referred to in section 411 of ERISA.

(3) The applicant has submitted false or misleading information on an application for enrollment to perform actuarial services or in any oral or written information submitted in connection therewith or in any report presenting actuarial information to any person, knowing the same to be false or misleading.
