
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart C - Standards of Performance for Enrolled Actuaries
##### ยง 901.20 Standards of performance of actuarial services.
###### Return of client's records.

(j)(1) In general, an enrolled actuary must, at the request of a client, promptly return any and all records of the client that are necessary for the client to comply with his or her legal obligations. The enrolled actuary may retain copies of the records returned to a client. The existence of a dispute over fees generally does not relieve the enrolled actuary of his or her responsibility under this section. Nevertheless, if applicable State law allows or permits the retention of a client's records by an enrolled actuary in the case of a dispute over fees for services rendered, the enrolled actuary need only return those records that must be attached to the client's required forms under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The enrolled actuary, however, must provide the client with reasonable access to review and copy any additional records of the client retained by the enrolled actuary under State law that are necessary for the client to comply with his or her obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code.

(2) For purposes of this section, records of the client include all documents or written or electronic materials provided to the enrolled actuary, or obtained by the enrolled actuary in the course of the enrolled actuary's representation of the client, that preexisted the retention of the enrolled actuary by the client. The term "records of the client" also includes materials that were prepared by the client or a third party (not including an employee or agent of the enrolled actuary) at any time and provided to the enrolled actuary with respect to the subject matter of the representation. The term "records of the client" also includes any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the enrolled actuary, or his or her employee or agent, that was presented to the client with respect to a prior representation if such document is necessary for the taxpayer to comply with his or her current obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. The term "records of the client" does not include any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the enrolled actuary or the enrolled actuary's firm, employees or agents if the enrolled actuary is withholding such document pending the client's performance of its contractual obligation to pay fees with respect to such document.
