
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 901 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTUARIAL SERVICES UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart D - Suspension or Termination of Enrollment
##### ยง 901.31 Grounds for suspension or termination of enrollment.
###### Disreputable conduct.

(c)The enrollment of an actuary may be suspended or terminated if it is found that the actuary has, at any time after he/she applied for enrollment, engaged in any conduct set forth in ยง 901.12(f) or other conduct evidencing fraud, dishonesty, or breach of trust. Such other conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(1) Conviction of any criminal offense under the laws of the United States (including section 411 of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. 1111), any State thereof, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States, which evidences fraud, dishonesty, or breach of trust.

(2) Knowingly filing false or altered documents, affidavits, financial statements or other papers on matters relating to employee benefit plans or actuarial services.

(3) Knowingly making false or misleading representations, either orally or in writing, on matters relating to employee benefit plans or actuarial services, or knowingly failing to disclose information relative to such matters.

(4) The use of false or misleading representations with intent to deceive a client or prospective client, or of intimations that the actuary is able to obtain special consideration or action from an officer or employee of any agency or court authorized to determine the validity of pension plans under ERISA.

(5) Willful violation of any of the regulations contained in this part.
