
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 902 - RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### § 902.5 Appeal.

(a) Any person denied access to records requested under § 902.4, may within thirty days after notification of such denial, file a signed written appeal to the Joint Board. The appeal shall provide the name and address of the appellant, the identification of the records denied, and the dates of the original request and its denial.

(b) The Joint Board shall act upon any such appeal within twenty days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) of its receipt, unless for unusual circumstances the time for such action is deferred, subject to § 902.4(b), for not more than ten days. If action upon any such appeal is so deferred, the Joint Board shall notify the requester of the reasons for such deferral and the date on which the final reply is expected to be dispatched. If it is determined that the appeal from the initial denial shall be denied (in whole or in part), the requester shall be notified in writing of the denial, of the reasons therefor, of the fact the Joint Board is responsible for the denial, and of the provisions of section 552(a)(4) of title 5 of the United States Code for judicial review of the determination.

(c) Any extension or extensions of time under §§ 902.4(d) and 902.5(b) shall not cumulatively total more than ten days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays). If an extension is invoked in connection with an initial determination under § 902.4(d), any unused days of such extension may be invoked in connection with the determination on appeal under § 902.5(a), by written notice from the Joint Board.
