
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter VIII - Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
### PART 903 - ACCESS TO RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Records Pertaining to Individuals
##### ยง 903.8 Exemptions.
###### Reasons for claimed exemptions:

(c)(1) The Privacy Act of 1974 creates several methods by which individuals may learn of and obtain records containing information on such individuals and consisting of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes. These methods are as follows: Subsection (c)(3) allows individuals to discover if other agencies are investigating such individuals; subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(H) and (f)(2), (3) and (5) establish the ability of individuals to gain access to investigatory material compiled on such individuals; subsections (d)(2), (3) and (4), (e)(4)(H) and (f)(4) presuppose access and enable individuals to contest the contents of investigatory material compiled on these individuals; and subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1) allow individuals to determine whether or not they are under investigation. Because these subsections are variations upon the individual's ability to ascertain whether his civil or criminal misconduct has been discovered, these subsections have been grouped together for purposes of this notice.

(2)(i) The Joint Board believes that imposition of the requirements of subsection (c)(3), which requires that accountings of disclosures be made available to individuals, would impair the ability of the Joint Board and other investigative entities to conduct investigations of alleged or suspected violations of the regulations governing the performance of actuarial services with respect to plans to which the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) applies, and of civil or criminal laws. Making the accountings of disclosures available to individuals enables such individuals to identify entities investigating them and thereby to determine the nature of the violations of which they are suspected. With such knowledge, individuals would be able to alter their illegal activities, destroy or alter evidence of such activities and seriously impair the successful completion of investigations. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemption from the requirements of subsection (c)(3) of the Act.

(ii) With respect to subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(2), (3) and (5), the Joint Board believes that access to investigatory material would prevent the successful completion of investigations. Individuals who gain access to investigatory material involving them discover the nature and extent of the violations of regulations, and of civil and criminal laws, of which they are suspected. By gaining access, such individuals also learn the facts developed during investigations. Knowledge of these matters enables these individuals to destroy or alter evidence which would otherwise have been used against them. In addition, knowledge of the facts and suspected violations gives individuals, who are committing ongoing violations, or who are about to commit violations of regulations, or of civil or criminal laws, the opportunity to temporarily postpone the commission of the violations or to effectively disguise the commission of these violations. Material compiled on investigated individuals reveals investigative techniques and procedures, disclosure of which enables such individuals to structure their illegal activities so as to escape detection. Further, such material may contain, or by its very nature reveal, the identity of confidential sources. When the identities of confidential sources are revealed, they may be subjected to various forms of reprisal. If confidential sources of information are subjected to actual reprisals or fear thereof, they may become reluctant to provide information necessary to identify or prove the guilt of persons who violate regulations, or civil or criminal laws. Further, the protections afforded by the above-referenced subsections are unnecessary because the Joint Board may not deny enrollment or suspend or terminate the enrollment of an individual to perform actuarial services until it has provided such individual with due process safeguards. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemptions from the requirements of subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(2), (3), and (5) of the Act.

(iii) With respect to subsections (d) (2), (3) and (4), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(4), the Joint Board believes that the imposition of these requirements, which presuppose access and provide for amending records, would impair the ability to conduct investigations and would be unnecessary for the same reasons stated in the preceding subsection (2)(ii). These reasons herein are incorporated by reference. Therefore, the Joint Board claims exemptions from the requirements of subsections (d)(2), (3), and (4), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(4).

(iv) With respect to subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1), the Joint Board believes that informing individuals that they are the subjects of a particular system or systems of records would impair the ability of the Joint Board and its agents to successfully complete investigations of suspected or alleged violators of the regulations governing the performance of actuarial services with respect to plans to which ERISA applies. Individuals who learn that they are suspected of violating said regulations are given the opportunity to destroy or alter evidence needed to prove the alleged violations. Such individuals may also be able to impair investigations by temporarily suspending or restructuring the activities which place them in violation of said regulations. Further, as noted in the preceding subsection (2)(ii) and incorporated by reference herein, the procedural requirements imposed on the Joint Board by ERISA make the protections afforded by subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1) unnecessary. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemptions from the requirements of subsections (e)(4)(G) and (f)(1).

(v) Subsection (e)(1) of the Privacy Act of 1974 requires that the Joint Board maintain in its records only information that is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Office required to be accomplished by statute or by executive order of the President. The Joint Board believes that imposition of said requirement would seriously impair its ability, and the abilities of its agents and other investigative entities to effectively investigate suspected or alleged violations of regulations and of civil or criminal laws. The Joint Board does not initiate inquires into individuals' conduct unless it receives information evidencing violation by such individuals of the regulations governing performance of actuarial services with respect to plans to which ERISA applies. Sources of such information may be unfamiliar with the Joint Board's interpretations of said regulations and, therefore, may not always provide only relevant and necessary information. Therefore, it may often be impossible to determine whether or not information is relevant and necessary. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemption from the requirements of subsection (e)(1).

(vi) Subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Privacy Act of 1974 requires the publication of the categories of sources of records in each system of records. The Joint Board believes that imposition of said requirement would seriously impair its ability to obtain information from such sources for the following reasons. Revealing such categories of sources could disclose investigative techniques and procedures and could cause sources to decline to provide information because of fear of reprisal, or fear of breaches of promises of confidentiality. For these reasons, the Joint Board claims exemption from the requirements of subsection (e)(4)(I).
