
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter IX - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor
### PART 1001 - SERVICES FOR VETERANS
#### Subpart F - Formula for the Allocation of Grant Funds to State Agencies
##### ยง 1001.152 Hold-harmless criteria and minimum funding level.

(a) A hold-harmless rate of 90 percent of the prior year's funding level will be applied after the funding formula phase-in period is completed (beginning fiscal year 2006 and subsequent years).

(b) A hold-harmless rate of 80 percent of the prior year's funding level will be applied for fiscal year 2005.

(c) A minimum funding level is established to ensure that in any year, no State will receive less than 0.28 percent (.0028) of the previous year's total funding for all States.

(d) If the appropriation for a given fiscal year does not provide sufficient funds to comply with the hold-harmless provision, the Department will:

(1) Update, as appropriate, the States' estimates of TAP workload and reserve sufficient funds for that purpose from the total amount available for allocation to the States. Beyond TAP workload, no funds will be reserved for exigent circumstances because the shortfall in the appropriation will be the primary exigent circumstance to be addressed.

(2) Apply proportionally the remaining balance available for basic grant allocations to the States for that fiscal year. The proportion will be calculated by dividing the remaining balance available for allocation by the total estimated State basic grant allocations for that fiscal year. The proportion resulting from that calculation will be applied to each State's estimated basic grant allocation to calculate the amount to be awarded.
