
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter IX - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor
### PART 1001 - SERVICES FOR VETERANS
#### Subpart F - Formula for the Allocation of Grant Funds to State Agencies
##### ยง 1001.150 Method of calculating State basic grant awards.

(a) In determining the amount of funds available to each State, the ratio of the number of veterans seeking employment in the State to the number of veterans seeking employment in all States will be used.

(b) The number of veterans seeking employment will be determined based on the number of veterans in the civilian labor force and the number of unemployed persons. The civilian labor force data will be obtained from the Current Population Survey (CPS) and the unemployment data will be obtained from the Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS), both of which are compiled by the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics.

(c) Each State's basic grant allocation will be determined by dividing the number of unemployed persons in each State by the number of unemployed persons across all States (LAUS for the individual States / LAUS for all States) and by dividing the number of veterans in the civilian labor force in each State by the number of veterans in the civilian labor force across all States (CPS for the individual States / CPS for all States). The result of these two ratios will be averaged and converted to a percentage of veterans seeking employment in the State compared to the percentage of veterans seeking employment in all States. Three-year averages of the CPS and LAUS data will be used in calculating the funding formula to stabilize the effect of annual fluctuations in the data in order to avoid undue fluctuations in the annual basic grant amounts allocated to States.

(d) State Plans are prepared in response to estimated basic grant allocation amounts prepared by the Department of Labor, based upon a projection of the appropriation. Variations from Department of Labor projections will be treated as follows:

(1) If the actual appropriation varies from the projection, the Secretary will make every reasonable effort to avoid recalculating the estimated basic grant allocation amounts, in order to maintain the delivery of services to veterans and to minimize the administrative workload required to recalculate grant allocations and to revise State Plans. Therefore upon enactment and allotment of an appropriated amount, it is the Department's intent to proceed by awarding the estimated basic grant allocation amounts to State agencies, unless the difference between the projection and the appropriation creates a compelling reason to do otherwise.

(2) If the actual appropriation exceeds the projection, the Secretary will determine whether the appropriation and the projection is large enough to warrant recalculating the State basic grant amounts. In such case, state basic grant amounts will be recalculated in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. If it is determined that no compelling reason to recalculate exists, the increased amount available for basic grants will be retained as undistributed funds. These undistributed basic grant funds will be retained separately from the funds retained for TAP workload and other exigencies, as established by ยง 1001.151(a). The intent will be to award these undistributed basic grant funds to States as basic grant supplements, in response to circumstances arising during the applicable fiscal year.

(3) If the actual appropriation falls below the projection, the Secretary will determine whether the lower appropriation creates a compelling reason to recalculate the State basic grant amounts. If it is determined that not recalculating the State basic grant amounts would jeopardize the availability of sufficient funding for TAP workload and other exigencies, a compelling reason to recalculate would exist. In that case, the State basic grant amounts will be recalculated under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section in response to the reduced appropriation, to the extent required to assure that sufficient funding is available for TAP workload and other exigencies.
