
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter IX - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor
### PART 1001 - SERVICES FOR VETERANS
#### Subpart G - Purpose and Definitions
##### ยง 1001.162 How does the Department define veteran for purposes of this subpart?

The Department applies two definitions of veteran for the purposes of this subpart and has established two stages for the implementation of these definitions.

(a) The first stage of implementation begins with application of this subpart G to the first program year following May 10, 2013. As of that date, veteran is defined as it is in 38 U.S.C. 4211(4), as a person who:

(1) Served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days and was discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge;

(2) Was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability;

(3) As a member of a reserve component under an order to active duty pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 12301(a), (d), or (g), 12302, or 12304, served on active duty during a period of war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge is authorized and was discharged or released from such duty with other than a dishonorable discharge; or

(4) Was discharged or released from active duty by reason of a sole survivorship discharge (as that term is defined in 10 U.S.C.1174(i)).

(b) The second stage of implementation begins with the first day of the program year that begins two years after the first day of the program year that State grantees begin collecting and maintaining data as required by 20 CFR 1010.330(c). As of that date, veteran will be defined as it is in 20 CFR 1010.110:

(1) A person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released there from under conditions other than dishonorable, as specified in 38 U.S.C. 101(2).

(2) Active service includes full-time Federal service in the National Guard or a Reserve component, other than full-time duty for training purposes.

(c) During the second stage of implementation, any veteran who meets the definition specified in paragraph (a) of this section will be considered to meet the definition specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) We will notify State grantees when they are required to begin implementing 20 CFR 1010.330(c).
