
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 226 - COMPUTING EMPLOYEE, SPOUSE, AND DIVORCED SPOUSE ANNUITIES
##### Subpart B - Computing an Employee Annuity
###### § 226.11 Employee tier II.

The tier II of an employee annuity is based only on railroad service. For annuities awarded after September 1981, the tier II benefit is computed as follows:

(a) The product obtained by multiplying the employee's creditable years of service by the average monthly compensation, determined as shown in subpart E of this part, is multiplied by seven-tenths of 1 percent (.007).

(b) If the employee is entitled to a vested dual benefit (see § 226.12 of this part), the result from paragraph (a) of this section is reduced by 25 percent of the vested dual benefit amount. This reduction is made before reduction of the tier II benefit for age. The result cannot be less than zero.

(c) If the railroad retirement family maximum applies, as shown in §§ 226.50-226.52 of this part, the amount from paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is reduced by the smaller of-

(1) The difference between the total railroad retirement maximum reduction amount and the reductions in the spouse and supplemental annuities; or

(2) The total tier II amount from paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(d) If the employee is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.31 of this chapter), the rate from paragraph (a) through (c) of this section is reduced in the same manner as the tier I as provided for in § 226.10 of this part. In the case of an employee with 30 years of service who is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.31 of this chapter), the age reduction only applies to the tier I component; no age reduction applies to the tier II component.

(e) The total tier II amount (paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section), is increased by 32.5 percent of the percentage increase in the cost-of-living increase to the tier I annuity component. Each cost-of-living increase is paid only to an employee whose annuity begins on or before the effective date of the increase. The increases are effective on the same date as any cost-of-living increase to the tier I annuity component.
