
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 226 - COMPUTING EMPLOYEE, SPOUSE, AND DIVORCED SPOUSE ANNUITIES
##### Subpart C - Computing a Spouse or Divorced Spouse Annuity
###### § 226.32 Spouse tier II.
####### Cost-of-living increase in restored amount.

(3)If an initial or recomputed restored amount is effective before the effective date of the cost-of-living increase shown in paragraph (e) of this section, the restored amount is multiplied by the percentage increase that applies. The result is added to the restored amount on the effective date of the increase for each year that the increase is payable.

(c) If the employee's tier II has been reduced pursuant to section 3(g)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act (takeback provision) the spouse tier II is reduced by one half of the "takeback" in the employee tier II.

(d) If the railroad retirement family maximum applies, as shown in §§ 226.50-226.52 of this part, the spouse tier II rate, as determined in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, is reduced by the smaller of-

(1) The total railroad retirement maximum reduction amount; or

(2) The previous spouse tier II rate.

(e) The tier II rate, from paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, is increased by the same percentage as the employee tier II increase described in § 226.11(e) of this part.

(f) If the spouse is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.51 of this chapter), the tier II rate, as determined in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section is reduced in the same manner as the tier I as provided for in § 226.30(e) of this part.
