
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 229 - SOCIAL SECURITY OVERALL MINIMUM GUARANTEE
##### Subpart F - Computation of the Overall Minimum Rate
###### ยง 229.48 Family maximum.
####### Combined family maximum.

(e)If a child is eligible to be included in the computation of the overall minimum on more than one railroad retirement annuity, a combined family maximum may apply, if it results in higher annuity rates. The combined family maximum is the smaller of:

(1) The sum of the individual family maximums on each earnings record; or

(2) 1.75 times the highest primary insurance amount possible in a year using average indexed monthly earnings equal to one-twelfth of the contribution and benefit base for that year. Average indexed monthly earnings and contribution and benefit base are explained in ยง 229.2 of this part.

(f) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

(1) An employee, age 62, applies for an age and service annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act (RRA). His annuity rate is $700. The employee has a son who was disabled for all regular employment prior to his attaining age 18. The RRA does not provide an annuity for a disabled child of a living employee. If the employee had been covered under the Social Security Act he would have received a benefit of $500 (the Overall Minimum PIA) and his child would have received a benefit of $250 (50 percent of $500), which produces a total family benefit of $750. The family maximum is $804.90. Under the O/M guarantee, the employee would receive $750 since it is higher than his annuity rate of $700. Since $750 is less than the family maximum computed for this employee, there is no reduction for the family maximum.

(2) It is determined that a disabled employee is entitled to a DIB O/M computed as follows:
