
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart F - Continuing Benefits
###### Reports of Dependents
####### ยง 10.537 What reports are needed when compensation payments continue for children over age 18?

(a) Compensation payable on behalf of a child that would otherwise end when the child reaches 18 years of age will continue if and for so long as he or she is not married and is either a student as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8101(17), or physically or mentally incapable of self-support.

(b) At least once each year, OWCP will ask an employee who receives compensation based on the student status of a child to provide proof of continuing entitlement to such compensation, including certification of school enrollment. The employee is required to report any changes to student status in the interim as soon as they occur.

(c) Likewise, at least once each year, OWCP will ask an employee who receives compensation based on a child's physical or mental inability to support himself or herself, and who is not covered by ยง 10.417(d) of this part, to submit a medical report verifying that the child's medical condition persists and that it continues to preclude self- support. The employee is required to report any changes to that status in the interim.

(d) If an employee fails to submit proof within 30 days of the date of the request, OWCP will suspend the employee's right to compensation until the requested information is received. At that time OWCP will reinstate compensation retroactive to the date of suspension, provided the employee is entitled to such compensation.
