
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart F - Continuing Benefits
###### Reduction and Termination of Compensation
####### ยง 10.541 What action will OWCP take after issuing written notice of its intention to reduce or terminate compensation?

(a) If the beneficiary submits evidence or argument prior to the issuance of the decision, OWCP will evaluate it in light of the proposed action and undertake such further development as it may deem appropriate, if any. Evidence or argument which is repetitious, cumulative, or irrelevant will not require any further development. If the beneficiary does not respond within 30 days of the written notice, OWCP will issue a decision consistent with its prior notice. OWCP will not grant any request for an extension of this 30-day period.

(b) Evidence or argument which refutes the evidence upon which the proposed action was based will result in the continued payment of compensation. If the beneficiary submits evidence or argument which fails to refute the evidence upon which the proposed action was based but which requires further development, OWCP will not provide the beneficiary with another notice of its proposed action upon completion of such development. Once any further development of the evidence is completed, OWCP will either continue payment or issue a decision consistent with its prior notice.
