
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart G - Appeals Process
###### Hearings
####### ยง 10.616 How does a claimant obtain a hearing?

(a) A claimant, injured on or after July 4, 1966, who has received a final adverse decision by the district office may obtain a hearing by writing to the address specified in the decision. The hearing request must be sent within 30 days (as determined by postmark or other carrier's date marking) of the date of the decision for which a hearing is sought. The claimant must not have previously submitted a reconsideration request (whether or not it was granted) on the same decision.

(b) OWCP will schedule an oral hearing and determine whether the oral hearing will be conducted in person, including whether the in person hearing will be by teleconference, videoconference or other electronic means. The claimant can request a change in the format from a hearing to a review of the written record by making a written request to the Branch of Hearings and Review. OWCP will grant a request received by the Branch of Hearings and Review within 30 days of: the date OWCP acknowledges the initial hearing request, or the date OWCP issues a notice setting a date for an oral hearing, in cases where the initial request was for, or was treated as a request for, an oral hearing. A request received after those dates will be subject to OWCP's discretion. The decision to grant or deny a change of format from a hearing to a review of the written record is not reviewable.
