
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart G - Appeals Process
###### Hearings
####### ยง 10.622 May a claimant or representative withdraw a request for or postpone a hearing?

(a) The claimant and/or representative may withdraw the hearing request at any time up to and including the day the hearing is held, or the decision issued. Withdrawing the hearing request means the record is returned to the jurisdiction of the district office and no further requests for a hearing on the underlying decision will be considered.

(b) OWCP will entertain any reasonable request for scheduling the oral hearing, including whether to participate by teleconference, videoconference or other electronic means, but such requests should be made at the time of the original application for hearing. Scheduling (including format) is at the sole discretion of the hearing representative, and is not reviewable.

(c) Once the oral hearing is scheduled and OWCP has mailed appropriate written notice to the claimant and representative, OWCP will, upon submission of proper written documentation of unavoidable serious scheduling conflicts (such as court-ordered appearances/trials, jury duty or previously scheduled outpatient procedures), entertain requests from a claimant or his representative for rescheduling as long as the hearing can be rescheduled on the same monthly docket, generally no more than 7 days after the originally scheduled time. When a request to postpone a scheduled hearing under this subsection cannot be accommodated on the docket, no further opportunity for an oral hearing will be provided. Instead, the hearing will take the form of a review of the written record and a decision issued accordingly.

(d) Where the claimant or representative is hospitalized for a non-elective reason or where the death of the claimant's or representative's parent, spouse, child or other immediate family prevents attendance at the hearing, OWCP will, upon submission of proper documentation, grant a postponement beyond one monthly docket.

(e) Decisions regarding rescheduling under paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section are within the sole discretion of the hearing representative and are not reviewable.

(f) A claimant who fails to appear at a scheduled hearing may request in writing within 10 days after the date set for the hearing that another hearing be scheduled. Where good cause for failure to appear is shown, another hearing will be scheduled and conducted by teleconference. The failure of the claimant to request another hearing within 10 days, or the failure of the claimant to appear at the second scheduled hearing without good cause shown, shall constitute abandonment of the request for a hearing. Where good cause is shown for failure to appear at the second scheduled hearing, review of the matter will proceed as a review of the written record.
