
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 266 - REPRESENTATIVE PAYMENT
##### ยง 266.1 Introduction.
###### Policy used to determine whether to make representative payment.

(c)(1) In accordance with section 12 of the Railroad Retirement Act, the Board's policy is that every annuitant has the right to manage his or her own benefits. However, some annuitants due to mental or physical condition or due to their youth may be unable to do so. If the Board determines that the interests of an annuitant would be better served if benefit payments were certified to another person as representative payee, the Board will appoint a representative payee in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part. The Board may appoint a representative payee even if the annuitant is a legally competent individual. If the annuitant is a legally incompetent individual, the Board may appoint the legal guardian or some other person as a representative payee.

(2) If payment is being made directly to an annuitant and a question arises concerning his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, the Board may, if the annuitant is 18 years old or older and has not been adjudged legally incompetent, continue to pay the annuitant until the Board makes a determination about his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments and the selection of a representative payee.
