
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 295 - PAYMENTS PURSUANT TO COURT DECREE OR COURT-APPROVED PROPERTY SETTLEMENT
##### ยง 295.4 Review of documentation.
###### Amount.

(b)Ambiguities in the amount to be paid the spouse or former spouse shall be resolved in accord with expressed indications of the court's intent, except that:

(1) Where the amount is expressed in terms of a dollar figure:

(i) If the figure exceeds the total benefits which may be allocated under this part, the excess will be disregarded, provided that any future increase in the benefits subject to this part will be prospectively applied to the excess effective with the date of the benefit increase.

(ii) If the figure is less than the total benefits which may be allocated under this part, only the amount specified will be paid.

(2) Where the amount is expressed as a fraction, percentage, or ratio:

(i) The amount specified shall be applied only against benefits subject to this part, irrespective of the wording of the decree or property settlement.

(ii) When the amount is expressed in terms of a fraction or ratio referring to the length of railroad service, years shall be converted into the equivalent months. If the length of railroad service specified in the decree or property settlement exceeds the number of creditable service months used by the Board to determine the employee's years of service for calculating an annuity, the actual number used by the Board shall be substituted. If the decree understates the actual number of creditable railroad service months, the number of years or months set forth in the decree or property settlement will be used.

(3) An amount may be expressed in any other fashion only to the extent to which it may be readily ascertained from records maintained by the Board in the regular course of administration of the Act.

(4) Unless the order expressly provides otherwise, the Board will deduct the amount specified by the order from any annuity paid to the employee, whether the employee has retired based on age or on disability.
