
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart H - Special Provisions
###### Third Party Liability
####### ยง 10.711 How is the amount of the recovery of the FECA beneficiary determined?

(a) When a FECA beneficiary is entitled to receive money as a result of a judgment entered in a lawsuit or settlement of a lawsuit or any other settlement or recovery from a responsible third party, the entire amount of the award is reported as the gross recovery. To determine the amount of the recovery of the FECA beneficiary, deductions are made for the portion representing damage to real or personal property, the portion representing loss of consortium, the portion representing wrongful death and the portion representing a survival action. To make deductions for loss of consortium, wrongful death and survival action, it must be established that:

(1) These claims were asserted in the suit (or if there was no suit that these claims were included in the settlement or recovery); and

(2) That such claims are permissible under the state law where the action was brought.

(b) OWCP or SOL will determine the appropriate percentage of the total judgment or settlement that will be allocated for loss of consortium, wrongful death action and survival action. FECA beneficiaries may accept OWCP's or SOL's determination or demonstrate good cause in writing for a different allocation. Whether to accept a specific allocation is at the discretion of OWCP or SOL, even where it has been incorporated into the settlement agreement. OWCP or SOL will not determine the appropriate percentage to be allocated for loss of consortium, wrongful death action and survival action if a judge or jury specifies the percentage to be awarded of a contested verdict attributable to each of several plaintiffs; in such case, OWCP or SOL will accept that percentage allocation.

(c) The amount of the recovery of the FECA beneficiary will be determined as followed:

(1) If a settlement or judgment is paid to or for one individual, the recovery is the gross recovery less the portion representing damage to real or personal property. The portion representing damage to real or personal property must be established in writing and approved by OWCP or SOL.

(2) In any case involving an injury to an employee where a judgment or settlement is paid to or on behalf of more than one individual, the recovery is the gross recovery less the portion representing damage to real or personal property and less the portion representing loss of consortium. OWCP or SOL will allocate up to 25% for a spouse and up to 5% for each child not to exceed 15% for all children for loss of consortium.

(3) In any case involving the death of an employee, where both wrongful death and survival actions have been asserted, separate statements of recovery are completed for the deceased employee and the surviving FECA beneficiaries. For the deceased employee, the recovery is the gross recovery less the portion representing damage to real or personal property, less the portion representing loss of consortium, less the portion representing the wrongful death action. For the surviving spouse and children, the recovery is the gross recovery less the portion representing damage to real or personal property, less the portion representing loss of consortium, less the portion representing the survival action. OWCP or SOL will allocate the total judgment or settlement as follows:

(i) For loss of consortium, OWCP or SOL will allocate up to 15% for a spouse and up to 5% for each child not to exceed 10% for all children;

(ii) For the wrongful death action, OWCP or SOL will allocate 65% of the remainder after subtraction of the amounts attributed to loss of consortium;

(iii) For the survival action, OWCP or SOL will allocate 35% percent of the remainder after subtraction of the amounts attributed to loss of consortium.

(d) In any case involving an injury to an employee where a judgment or settlement is paid to or on behalf of more than one individual and in any case involving the death of an employee, court costs will be attributed using the same percentages as was used for loss of consortium, wrongful death action and survival action. Attorney fees will be determined using the same percentage that was used for the gross recovery. These calculations are used only for the purpose of determining the amount of the refund and if applicable the surplus.
