
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act
#### PART 340 - RECOVERY OF BENEFITS
##### ยง 340.10 Waiver of recovery of erroneous payments.
###### When recovery defeats the purpose of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.

(c)(1) The purpose of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act is to furnish some replacement for an individual's railroad earnings lost because of days of sickness or unemployment. The purpose of the Act is defeated when an erroneous payment is recovered from income and resources which the individual requires to meet ordinary and necessary living expenses. If either income or resources are sufficient to meet expenses, the purpose of the Act is not defeated by recovery of an erroneous payment.

(2) For purposes of this section, income includes any funds which may reasonably be considered available for the individual's use, regardless of source. Income to the individual's spouse or dependents is available if the spouse or dependent lived with the individual at the time waiver is considered. Types of income include, but are not limited to:

(i) Government benefits such as Black Lung, Social Security, Workers' Compensation, and Unemployment Compensation benefits;

(ii) Wages and self-employment income;

(iii) Regular payments such as rent or pensions; and

(iv) Investment income.

(3) For purposes of this section, resources include, but are not limited to, liquid assets such as cash on hand, the value of stocks, bonds, savings accounts, mutual funds, any accrual benefit payable by the United States of America or any other source.

(4) Whether an individual has sufficient income and resources to meet ordinary and necessary living expenses depends not only on the amount of his or her income and resources, but also on whether the expenses are "ordinary and necessary." While the level of expenses which is "ordinary and necessary" may vary between individuals, it must be held at a level reasonable for an individual who is temporarily unemployed or incapacitated due to sickness. The Board will consider the discretionary nature of an expense in determining whether it is reasonable. Ordinary and necessary living expenses include:
