
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act
#### PART 340 - RECOVERY OF BENEFITS
##### ยง 340.10 Waiver of recovery of erroneous payments.
###### Recoveries not subject to waiver.

(e)(1) Where an amount is recoverable pursuant to section 2(f) of the Act from remuneration payable to an employee by a person or company, or where a lien for reimbursement of sickness benefits has arisen pursuant to section 12(o) of the Act, and in either case recovery is sought from a person other than the employee, no right to waiver of recovery exists.

(2) Where the amount recoverable is equal to or less than 10 times the current maximum daily benefit rate under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act it shall not be considered contrary to the purpose of the Act or against equity or good conscience to recover such payment. Consequently, the amount recoverable is not subject to waiver under this part.

(3) Where the amount recoverable is the result of an overpayment of benefits payable under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act due to entitlement to annuities under the Railroad Retirement Act for the same days for which benefits were payable, and recovery of such overpayment may be made by offset against an accrual of the annuities, it shall not be considered contrary to the purpose of the Act or against equity or good conscience to recover the erroneous payment by offset against such accrual. Consequently, the amount recoverable is not subject to waiver under this part.

(4) Where there exists accumulated Federal benefits payable by any executive agency of the United States, any amount recoverable which is equal to or less than the accumulated Federal benefits is not subject to waiver. Any amount recoverable which is greater than the identified accumulated Federal benefits may be considered for waiver in accordance with the provisions of this part and part 320 of this chapter.
