
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart I - Information for Medical Providers
###### Medical Records and Bills
####### ยง 10.800 How do providers enroll with OWCP for authorizations and billing?

(a) All providers must enroll with OWCP or its designated bill processing agent (hereinafter OWCP in this subpart) to have access to the automated authorization system and to submit medical bills to OWCP. To enroll, the provider must complete and submit a Form OWCP-1168 to the appropriate location noted on that form. By completing and submitting this form, providers certify that they satisfy all applicable Federal and State licensure and regulatory requirements that apply to their specific provider or supplier type. The provider must maintain documentary evidence indicating that it satisfies those requirements. The provider is also required to notify OWCP immediately if any information provided to OWCP in the enrollment process changes. Agency medical officers, private physicians and hospitals are also required to keep records of all cases treated by them under the FECA so they can supply OWCP with a history of the injury, a description of the nature and extent of injury, the results of any diagnostic studies performed, the nature of the treatment rendered and the degree of any impairment and/or disability arising from the injury.

(b) Where a medical provider intends to bill for a procedure where prior authorization is required, that provider must request such authorization from OWCP.

(c) After enrollment, a provider must submit all medical bills to OWCP through its bill processing portal and include the Provider Number/ID obtained through enrollment or other identifying number required by OWCP.
