
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart I - Information for Medical Providers
###### Medical Records and Bills
####### ยง 10.801 How are medical bills to be submitted?

(a) All charges for medical and surgical treatment, appliances or supplies furnished to injured employees, except for treatment and supplies provided by nursing homes, shall be supported by medical evidence as provided in ยง 10.800. OWCP may withhold payment for services until such report or evidence is provided. The physician or provider shall itemize the charges on Form OWCP-1500 or CMS-1500 (for professional services or medicinal drugs dispensed in the office), Form OWCP-04 or UB-04 (for hospitals), an electronic or paper-based bill that includes required data elements (for pharmacies) or other form as warranted and accepted by OWCP, and submit the form promptly to OWCP.

(b) The provider shall identify each service performed using the Physician's Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code, the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code, the National Drug Code (NDC), or the Revenue Center Code (RCC) with a brief narrative description; OWCP has discretion to determine which of these codes may be utilized in the billing process. The Director also has the authority to create and supply specific procedure codes that will be used by OWCP to better describe and allow specific payments for special services. These OWCP-created codes will be issued to providers by OWCP as appropriate and may only be used as authorized by OWCP. For example, a physician conducting a referee or second opinion examination under 5 U.S.C. 8123 will be furnished an OWCP-created code; a provider may not use such an OWCP-created code for other types of medical examinations or services. Where no appropriate code is submitted to identify the services performed, the bill will be returned to the provider and/or denied.

(c) For professional charges billed on Form OWCP-1500 or CMS-1500, the provider shall also state each diagnosed condition and furnish the corresponding diagnostic code using the "International Classification of Disease, 9th Edition, Clinical Modification" (ICD-9-CM), or as revised. A separate bill shall be submitted when the employee is discharged from treatment or monthly, if treatment for the work-related condition is necessary for more than 30 days.

(1) (i) Hospitals shall submit charges for inpatient medical and surgical treatment or supplies promptly to OWCP on Form OWCP-04 or UB-04.

(ii) For outpatient billing, the provider shall identify each service performed, using Revenue Center Codes (RCCs) and HCPCS/CPT codes as warranted. The charge for each individual service, or the total charge for all identical services, should also appear on the form. OWCP may adopt an Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OWCP OPPS) (as developed and implemented by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid services (CMS) for Medicare, while modifying the allowable costs under Medicare to account for deductibles and other additional costs which are covered by FECA). Once adopted, hospital providers shall submit outpatient hospital bills on the current version of the Universal Billing Form (UB) and use HCPCS codes and other coding schemes in accordance with the OWCP OPPS.

(2) Pharmacies shall itemize charges for prescription medications, appliances, or supplies on electronic or paper-based bills and submit them promptly to OWCP. Bills for prescription medications must include the NDC assigned to the product, the generic or trade name of the drug provided, the prescription number, the quantity provided, and the date the prescription was filled.

(3) Nursing homes shall itemize charges for appliances, supplies or services on the provider's billhead stationery and submit them promptly to OWCP. Such charges shall be subject to any applicable OWCP fee schedule.

(d) By submitting a bill and/or accepting payment, the provider signifies that the service for which reimbursement is sought was performed as described, necessary, appropriate and properly billed in accordance with accepted industry standards. For example, accepted industry standards preclude upcoding billed services for extended medical appointments when the employee actually had a brief routine appointment, or charging for the services of a professional when a paraprofessional or aide performed the service; industry standards prohibit unbundling services to charge separately for services that should be billed as a single charge. In addition, the provider thereby agrees to comply with all regulations set forth in this subpart concerning the rendering of treatment and/or the process for seeking reimbursement for medical services, including the limitation imposed on the amount to be paid for such services.

(e) In summary, bills submitted by providers must: Be itemized on the Health Insurance Claim Form (for physicians) or the OWCP-04 (for hospitals); contain the signature or signature stamp of the provider; and identify the procedures using HCPCS/CPT codes, RCCs, or NDCs. Otherwise, OWCP may deny the bill, and the provider must correct and resubmit the bill.
