
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter D - Garnishment of Benefits
#### PART 350 - GARNISHMENT OF BENEFITS PAID UNDER THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT ACT, THE RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT, AND UNDER ANY OTHER ACT ADMINISTERED BY THE BOARD
##### ยง 350.4 Exemptions.

(a) Unless a lower percentage or dollar amount limitation on garnishment is provided by applicable state or local law, the portion of any payment due to an individual which is subject to legal process to enforce any order for the support of any person shall not exceed 65 percent. Where the individual is supporting a spouse or dependent child, other than a spouse or child with respect to whose support that legal process is issued, the portion subject to legal process is reduced by 10 percent. Where the alimony or support arrearage is less than 12 weeks old, the portion subject to legal process is reduced by 5 percent. If a lower limitation is provided by applicable state or local law, then that lower limitation shall be applied.

(b) In the absence of some evidence to the contrary, it will be assumed that the defendant is not supporting a spouse or dependent child other than a spouse or child with respect to whose support the legal process is issued.

(c) In any case in which a recurring benefit payment is reduced, whether due to a recovery by the Board of an overpayment or for some other reason, below the rate at which it is ordinarily paid, any applicable exemptions shall be applied to the amount of the reduced benefit which is actually paid.

(d) For purposes of the applicability of exemptions, amounts deducted for medicare premiums must first be subtracted from the annuity amount.
