
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter D - Garnishment of Benefits
#### PART 350 - GARNISHMENT OF BENEFITS PAID UNDER THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT ACT, THE RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT, AND UNDER ANY OTHER ACT ADMINISTERED BY THE BOARD
##### ยง 350.5 Miscellaneous.

(a) The Board may not be required to vary its normal disbursement cycles in order to comply with legal process. However, legal process which is received too late to be honored during the disbursement cycle in which it is received may be honored to the extent that the legal process may, in compliance with this part, be satisfied from the next payment due to the obligor.

(b) Except as provided in these regulations, the Board may not be required in connection with proceedings under this part to forward documents which have been sent to the Board, to an individual, whether or not he is entitled to benefits paid by the Board, or to disclose information other than that relating to the type, amount (whether actual or estimated), and dates of payment of benefits paid by the Board to that individual.

(c) Neither the Board nor any of its employees shall be liable with respect to any payment made to any individual from moneys due from or payable by the Board pursuant to legal process regular on its face, if such payment is made in accordance with this part.

(d) No employee of the Board whose duties include responding to legal process pursuant to requirements contained in this part shall be subject under any law to any disciplinary action or civil or criminal liability or penalty for, or on account of, any disclosure of information made by such employee in connection with the performance of the employee's duties in responding to any such process.

(e) For purposes of a proceeding under this part, the Board will apply the law of the state in which the legal process is issued unless it comes to the attention of the Board that the state of issuance has no contact with the plaintiff or defendant in the action; in which case, the Board may, in its sole discretion, apply the law of any state with significant interest in the matter.

(f) No acknowledgement or response will be made to legal process which does not contain the mailing address to which acknowledgement may be made. No response to any legal process will be notarized or verified.
