
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter E - Administrative Remedies for Fraudulent Claims or Statements
#### PART 355 - REGULATIONS UNDER THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986
##### ยง 355.3 Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
###### Claims.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know-

(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;

(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;

(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that-

(A) Omits a material fact;

(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and

(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or

(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each such claim. This penalty is subject to adjustment in accord with part 356 of this chapter.

(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.

(3) A claim shall be considered made to an authority, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any state or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of such authority, recipient, or party.

(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.

(5) If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim. However, such assessment shall not be in lieu of any recovery of erroneous payments as authorized by section 10 of the Railroad Retirement Act or section 2(d) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
