
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter F - Internal Administration, Policy and Procedures
#### PART 361 - RECOVERY OF DEBTS OWED TO THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT BY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
##### ยง 361.6 Requests for waiver or hearing.

(a) A request for waiver or for a hearing must be made in writing and received by the Chief Financial Officer no later than thirty calendar days after the notice is sent to the employee. This time limit may, at the discretion of the Chief Financial Officer, be extended if the employee can show that the delay was caused by circumstances which were beyond the employee's control or because of the employee's failure to receive notice of the time limit. Any right to waiver or to a hearing is forfeited unless the time limits set forth in this paragraph are complied with.

(b) The employee's request for a hearing must be signed by the employee and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position.

(c) A request for a hearing under this paragraph is not a request for waiver. A request for waiver must state the basis for the request for waiver and whether a hearing is requested. If no request for a hearing is contained in the waiver request, no hearing will be provided.

(d) A hearing, if requested, will be an informal proceeding conducted by an administrative law judge or hearing official not under the control of the Board. The employee, or his/her representative, and the Board will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses and argument.
