
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter F - Internal Administration, Policy and Procedures
#### PART 365 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD
##### ยง 365.150 Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
###### General.

(a)The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity when viewed in its entirety is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. Although all facilities in which the agency operates, except for the headquarters building, are either owned or leased by and under the general control of the General Services Administration (GSA), the agency recognizes its obligation to request the GSA to make space reassignments or any structural changes which the agency determines are necessary to ensure program accessibility. This paragraph does not-

(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps; or

(2) Require the agency to take or to recommend to the GSA any action that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or result in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with ยง 365.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Chief Executive Officer after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens that would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
