
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter F - Internal Administration, Policy and Procedures
#### PART 365 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD
##### ยง 365.170 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency;

(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) Except with respect to complaints arising under ยง 365.170(b), responsibility for implementation and operation of this section shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer.

(d) The Chief Executive Officer shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which he or she has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 90 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Chief Executive Officer may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the Chief Executive Officer receives a complaint over which the agency does not have jurisdiction, he or she shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Chief Executive Officer shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility used by the agency that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(g) Within 120 days of the receipt of a complete complaint under ยง 365.170(d) for which the agency has jurisdiction, the Chief Executive Officer shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 45 days of receipt from the Chief Executive Officer of the letter required by ยง 365.170(g). The Chief Executive Officer may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Board.

(j) The Board shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the Board determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 30 days from the date it receives the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.

(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
