
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart J - Death Gratuity
###### ยง 10.911 How is the death gratuity payment process initiated?

(a) Either the employing agency or a living claimant (survivor or alternate beneficiary) may initiate the death gratuity payment process. If the death gratuity payment process is initiated by the employing agency notifying OWCP of the employee's death, each claimant must file a claim with OWCP in order to receive payment of the death gratuity. The legal representative or guardian of any minor child may file on the child's behalf. Alternatively, if a claimant initiates the death gratuity payment process by filing a claim, the employing agency must complete a death notification form and submit it to OWCP. Other claimants must also file a claim for their portion of the death gratuity.

(b) The employing agency must notify OWCP immediately upon learning of an employee's death that may be eligible for benefits under this subpart, by submitting form CA-42 to OWCP. The agency must also submit to OWCP any designation forms completed by the employee, and the agency must provide as much information as possible about any living survivors or alternate beneficiaries of which the agency is aware.

(1) OWCP will then contact any living survivor(s) or alternate beneficiary(ies) it is able to identify.

(2) OWCP will furnish claim form CA-41 to any identified survivor(s) or alternate beneficiary(ies) and OWCP will provide information to them explaining how to file a claim for the death gratuity.

(c) Alternatively, any claimant may file a claim for death gratuity benefits with OWCP. Form CA-41 may be used for this purpose. The claimant will be required to provide any information that he or she has regarding any other beneficiaries who may be entitled to the death gratuity payment. The claimant must disclose, in addition to the Social Security number (SSN) of the deceased employee, the SSNs (if known) and all known contact information of all other possible claimants who may be eligible to receive the death gratuity payment. The claimant must also identify, if known, the agency that employed the deceased employee when he or she incurred the injury that caused his or her death. OWCP will then contact the employing agency and notify the agency that it must complete and submit form CA-42 for the employee. OWCP will also contact any other living survivor(s) or alternate beneficiary(ies) it is able to identify, furnish to them claim form CA-41, and provide information explaining how to file a claim for the death gratuity.

(d) If a claimant submits a claim for the death gratuity to an employing agency, the agency must promptly transmit the claim to OWCP. This includes both claim forms CA-41 and any other claim or paper submitted which appears to claim compensation on account of the employee's death.
