
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 401 - PRIVACY AND DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - The Privacy Act
##### ยง 401.70 Appeals of refusals to correct records or refusals to allow access to records.
###### Appeal of refusal to correct or amend records.

(b)If we deny your request to correct an SSA record, you may request a review of that decision. As discussed in ยง 401.65(e), our letter denying your request will tell you to whom to write.

(1) We will review your request within 30 working days from the date of the receipt. However, for a good reason and with the approval of the Executive Director for the Office of Privacy and Disclosure, we may extend this time limit up to an additional 30 days. In that case, we will notify you about the delay, the reason for it and the date when the review is expected to be completed.

(2) If, after review, we determine that the record should be corrected, we will do so. However, if we refuse to amend the record as you requested, we will inform you that-

(i) Your request has been refused and the reason for the refusal;

(ii) The refusal is our final decision; and

(iii) You have a right to seek court review of our final decision.

(3) We will also inform you that you have a right to file a statement of disagreement with the decision. Your statement should include the reason you disagree. We will make your statement available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, together with a statement of our reasons for refusing to amend the record. Also, we will provide a copy of your statement to individuals whom we are aware received the record previously.
