
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 401 - PRIVACY AND DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - The Privacy Act
##### § 401.85 Exempt systems.
###### Specific systems of records exempted.

(b)(1) Those systems of records listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are exempt from the following provisions of the Act and this part:

(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and paragraph (c) of § 401.80 of this part which require that you be granted access to an accounting of disclosures of your record.

(ii) 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) (1) through (4) and (f) and §§ 401.35 through 401.75 relating to notification of or access to records and correction or amendment of records.

(iii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) (G) and (H) which require that we include information about SSA procedures for notification, access, and correction or amendment of records in the notice for the systems of records.

(iv) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) and § 401.30 which require that if we ask you to provide a record to us, we must inform you of the authority for our asking you to provide the record (including whether providing the record is mandatory or voluntary, the principal purposes for maintaining the record, the routine uses for the record, and what effect your refusal to provide the record may have on you), and if you are not required by statute or Executive Order to provide the record, that you agree to provide the record. This exemption applies only to an investigatory record compiled by SSA for criminal law enforcement purposes in a system of records exempt under subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act to the extent that these requirements would prejudice the conduct of the investigation.

(2) The following systems of records are exempt from those provisions of the Privacy Act and this part listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(i) Pursuant to subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, the Investigatory Material Compiled for Law Enforcement Purposes System, SSA.

(ii) Pursuant to subsection (k)(2) of the Privacy Act:

(A) The General Criminal Investigation Files, SSA;

(B) The Criminal Investigations File, SSA; and,

(C) The Program Integrity Case Files, SSA.

(D) Civil and Administrative Investigative Files of the Inspector General, SSA/OIG.

(E) Complaint Files and Log. SSA/OGC.

(F) Anti-Harassment & Hostile Work Environment Case Tracking and Records System, SSA.

(G) Social Security Administration Violence Evaluation and Reporting System, SSA.

(H) Anti-Fraud System, SSA.

(iii) Pursuant to subsection (k)(5) of the Privacy Act:

(A) Security and Suitability Files.

(B) [Reserved]

(iv) Pursuant to subsection (k)(6) of the Privacy Act, the Personnel Research and Merit Promotion Test Records, SSA/DCHR/OPE.
