
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart J - Death Gratuity
###### ยง 10.914 What are the responsibilities of the employing agency in the death gratuity payment process?

Because some of the information needed to establish a claim under this subpart will not be readily available to the claimants, the employing agency of the deceased employee has significant responsibilities in the death gratuity claim process. These responsibilities are as follows:

(a) The agency must completely fill out form CA-42 immediately upon learning of an employee's death that may be eligible for benefits under this subpart. The agency must complete form CA-42 as promptly as possible if notified by OWCP that a survivor filed a claim based on the employee's death. The agency should provide as much information as possible regarding the circumstances of the employee's injury and his or her assigned duties at the time of the injury, so that OWCP can determine whether the injury was incurred in the performance of duty and whether the employee was performing service in connection with an Armed Force in a contingency operation at the time.

(b) The employing agency must promptly transmit any form CA-41s received from claimants to OWCP. The employer must also promptly transmit to OWCP any other claim or paper submitted that appears to claim compensation on account of the employee's death.

(c) The employing agency must maintain any designations completed by the employee and signed by a representative of the agency in the employee's official personnel file or a related system of records. The agency must forward any such forms to OWCP if the agency submits form CA-42 notifying OWCP of the employee's death. The agency must also forward any other paper signed by the employee and employing agency that appears to make designations of the death gratuity.

(d) If requested by OWCP, the employing agency must determine whether a survivor, who is claiming the death gratuity based on his or her status as an illegitimate child of a deceased male employee, has offered satisfactory evidence to show that he or she is in fact the employee's child.

(e) The employing agency must notify OWCP of any other death gratuity payments under any other law of the United States for which the employee's death qualifies. The employing agency also must notify OWCP of any other death gratuity payments that have been paid based on the employee's death.

(f) Non-appropriated fund instrumentalities must fulfill the same requirements under this subpart as any other employing agency.
