
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart J - Death Gratuity
###### ยง 10.915 What are the responsibilities of OWCP in the death gratuity payment process?

(a) If the death gratuity payment process is initiated by the employing agency's submission of form CA-42, OWCP will identify living potential claimants. OWCP will make a reasonable effort to provide claim form CA-41s to any known potential claimants and provide instructions on how to file a claim for the death gratuity payment.

(b) If the death gratuity payment process is initiated by a claimant's submission of a claim, OWCP will contact the employing agency and prompt it to submit form CA-42. OWCP will then review the information provided by both the claim and form CA-42, and OWCP will attempt to identify all living survivors or alternate beneficiaries who may be eligible for payment of the gratuity.

(c) If OWCP determines that the evidence is not sufficient to meet the claimant's burden of proof, OWCP will notify the claimant of the additional evidence needed. The claimant will be allowed at least 30 days to submit the additional evidence required. OWCP may also request additional information from the employing agency.

(d) OWCP will review the information provided by the claimant and information provided by the employing agency to determine whether the claim satisfies all the requirements listed in ยง 10.912.

(e) OWCP will calculate the amount of the death gratuity payment and pay the beneficiaries as soon as possible after accepting the claim.
