
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 401 - PRIVACY AND DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL RECORDS AND INFORMATION
#### Appendix A to Part 401 - Employee Standards of Conduct
##### Rules governing employees whose duties require use or reference to systems of records.

(d)Employees whose official duties require that they refer to, maintain, service, or otherwise deal with systems of records (hereinafter referred to as "Systems Employees") are governed by the general provisions. In addition, extra precautions are required and systems employees are held to higher standards of conduct.

(1) Systems Employees shall:

(a) Be informed with respect to their responsibilities under the Privacy Act;

(b) Be alert to possible misuses of the system and report to their supervisors any potential or actual use of the system which they believe is not in compliance with the Privacy Act and regulation;

(c) Disclose records within SSA only to an employee who has a legitimate need to know the record in the course of his or her official duties;

(d) Maintain records as accurately as practicable.

(e) Consult with a supervisor prior to taking any action where they are in doubt whether such action is in conformance with the Act and regulation.

(2) Systems employees shall not:

(a) Disclose in any form records from a system of records except (1) with the consent or at the request of the subject individual; or (2) where its disclosure is permitted under ยง 401.110.

(b) Permit unauthorized individuals to be present in controlled areas. Any unauthorized individuals observed in controlled areas shall be reported to a supervisor or to the guard force.

(c) Knowingly or willfully take action which might subject SSA to civil liability.

(d) Make any arrangements for the design, development, or operation of any system of records without making reasonable effort to provide that the system can be maintained in accordance with the Act and regulation.
