
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 25 - COMPENSATION FOR DISABILITY AND DEATH OF NONCITIZEN FEDERAL EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 25.2 In general, what is the Director's policy regarding such claims?

(a) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8137(a)(2), a special schedule is established by subpart B of this part that applies to any non-citizen non-resident Federal employee who is neither hired nor employed in the United States, Canada or in a possession or territory of the United States (hereinafter non-citizen non-resident employees). The special schedule in subpart B of this part is subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The special schedule set forth in subpart B of this part applies to claims of such employees whose injury (or injury resulting in death) occurred on or after August 29, 2011.

(b) This special schedule of compensation established by subpart B of this part shall apply to non-citizen non-resident employees outside of the United States unless:

(1) The injured employee receives compensation pursuant to a specific separate agreement between the United States and another government (or similar compensation from another sovereign government);

(2) The employee receives compensation pursuant to the special schedule under subpart C for the particular locality, or for a class of employees in that particular locality; or

(3) The employee otherwise establishes entitlement to compensation under local law pursuant to ยง 25.100(e).

(c) Compensation in all cases of such employees paid and closed prior to August 29, 2011 shall be deemed compromised and paid under 5 U.S.C. 8137. In all other cases, compensation may be adjusted to conform with the regulations in this part, or the beneficiary may by compromise or agreement with the Director have compensation continued on the basis of a previous adjustment of the claim.

(d) Compensation received by beneficiaries pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8137 and the special schedule set forth in subpart B or as otherwise specified in paragraph (b) of this section is the exclusive measure of compensation in cases of injury (or death from injury) to non-citizen non-resident employees of the United States as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) Compensation for disability and death of non-citizen non-resident employees outside the United States under this part shall in no event exceed that generally payable under the FECA.
