
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 402 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION AND RECORDS TO THE PUBLIC
#### ยง 402.90 Exemption four for withholding records: Trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.
##### Commercial or financial information.

(b)We will not disclose records whose information is "commercial or financial," is obtained from a person, and is "privileged or confidential."

(1) Information is "commercial or financial" if it relates to businesses, commerce, trade, employment, profits, or finances (including personal finances). We interpret this category broadly.

(2) Information is "obtained from a person" if SSA or another agency has obtained it from someone outside the Federal Government or from someone within the Government who has a commercial or financial interest in the information. "Person" includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, State or foreign government, or other organization. Information is not "obtained from a person" if it is generated by SSA or another Federal agency. However, information is "obtained from a person" if it is provided by someone, including but not limited to an agency employee, who retains a commercial or financial interest in the information.

(3) Information is "privileged" if it would ordinarily be protected from disclosure in civil discovery by a recognized evidentiary privilege, such as the attorney-client privilege or the work product privilege. Information may be privileged for this purpose under a privilege belonging to a person outside the government, unless the providing of the information to the government rendered the information no longer protectable in civil discovery.

(4) Information is "confidential" if it meets one of the following tests:

(i) Disclosure may impair the government's ability to obtain necessary information in the future;

(ii) Disclosure would substantially harm the competitive position of the person who submitted the information;

(iii) Disclosure would impair other government interests, such as program effectiveness and compliance; or

(iv) Disclosure would impair other private interests, such as an interest in controlling availability of intrinsically valuable records, which are sold in the market by their owner.
