
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 25 - COMPENSATION FOR DISABILITY AND DEATH OF NONCITIZEN FEDERAL EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart B - The Special Schedule of Compensation
###### ยง 25.101 How is compensation for disability paid?
####### Permanent partial disability.

(d)Where there is permanent disability (impairment) involving the loss, or loss of use, of a member or function of the body, the injured employee is entitled to schedule compensation at 50 percent of the monthly pay to be paid in a lump sum according to 5 U.S.C. 8135, for the following losses and periods:

(1) Arm lost: 312 weeks' compensation.

(2) Leg lost: 288 weeks' compensation.

(3) Hand lost: 244 weeks' compensation.

(4) Foot lost: 205 weeks' compensation.

(5) Eye lost: 160 weeks' compensation.

(6) Thumb lost: 75 weeks' compensation.

(7) First finger lost: 46 weeks' compensation.

(8) Great toe lost: 38 weeks' compensation.

(9) Second finger lost: 30 weeks' compensation.

(10) Third finger lost: 25 weeks' compensation.

(11) Toe, other than great toe, lost: 16 weeks' compensation.

(12) Fourth finger lost: 15 weeks' compensation.

(13) Loss of hearing: One ear, 52 weeks' compensation; both ears, 200 weeks' compensation.

(14) Breast (one) lost: 52 weeks' compensation.

(15) Kidney (one) lost: 156 weeks' compensation.

(16) Larynx lost: 160 weeks' compensation.

(17) Lung (one) lost: 156 weeks' compensation.

(18) Penis lost: 205 weeks' compensation.

(19) Testicle (one) lost: 52 weeks' compensation.

(20) Tongue lost: 160 weeks' compensation.

(21) Ovary (one) lost: 52 weeks' compensation.

(22) Uterus/cervix and vulva/vagina lost: 205 weeks' compensation.

(23) Skin: 205 weeks' compensation.

(24) Phalanges: Compensation for loss of more than one phalanx of a digit shall be the same as for the loss of the entire digit. Compensation for loss of the first phalanx shall be one-half of the compensation for the loss of the entire digit.

(25) Amputated arm or leg: Compensation for an arm or a leg, if amputated at or above the elbow or the knee, shall be the same as for the loss of the arm or leg; but, if amputated between the elbow and the wrist, or between the knee and the ankle, the compensation shall be the same as for the loss of the hand or the foot.

(26) Binocular vision or percent of vision: Compensation for loss of binocular vision, or for 80 percent or more of the vision of an eye shall be the same as for the loss of the eye.

(27) Two or more digits: Compensation for loss of two or more digits, one or more phalanges of two or more digits of a hand or foot may be proportioned to the loss of use of the hand or foot occasioned thereby, but shall not exceed the compensation for the loss of a hand or a foot.

(28) Total loss of use: Compensation for a permanent total loss of use of a member shall be the same as for loss of the member.

(29) Partial loss or partial loss of use: Compensation for permanent partial loss or loss of use of a member may be for proportionate loss of use of the member.

(30) Consecutive awards: In any case in which there occurs a loss or loss of use of more than one member or parts of more than one member set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, but not amounting to permanent total disability, the award of compensation shall be for the loss or loss of use of each such member or part thereof, which awards shall run consecutively.

(31) Other cases: In all other cases within this class of disability the compensation during the continuance of disability shall be that proportion of compensation for permanent total disability, as determined under paragraph (c) of this section, which is equal in percentage to the degree or percentage of physical impairment caused by the disability.

(32) Compensation under paragraph (d) of this section for permanent partial disability shall be in addition to any compensation for temporary total or temporary partial disability under this section, and awards for temporary total, temporary partial, and permanent partial disability shall run consecutively.

(e) In the event a beneficiary covered under subpart B can demonstrate that the amount payable under the special schedule would result in a payment that would be demonstrably less than the amount payable under the law of his home country, the Director retains the discretion to pay that amount of compensation under 5 U.S.C. 8137(a)(2)(A), not to exceed the amount payable under FECA. To request benefits under this paragraph, the beneficiary must submit the following:

(1) Translated copies of the applicable local statute as well as any regulations, policies and procedures the beneficiary avers are applicable; and

(2) A translated copy of an opinion rendered by an attorney licensed in that jurisdiction or an advisory opinion from a court or administrative tribunal that explains the benefits payable to the beneficiary.
