
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 403 - TESTIMONY BY EMPLOYEES AND THE PRODUCTION OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
#### ยง 403.120 How do you request testimony?

(a) You must submit a written application for testimony of an SSA employee. Your application must-

(1) Describe in detail the nature and relevance of the testimony sought in the legal proceeding;

(2) Include a detailed explanation as to why you need the testimony, why you cannot obtain the information you need from an alternative source, and why providing it to you would be in SSA's interest; and

(3) Provide the date and time that you need the testimony and the place where SSA would present it.

(b) You must submit a complete application to SSA at least 30 days in advance of the date that you need the testimony. If your application is submitted fewer than 30 days before that date, you must provide, in addition to the requirements set out above, a detailed explanation as to why-

(1) You did not apply in a timely fashion; and

(2) It is in SSA's interest to review the untimely application.

(c) You must send your application for testimony to: Office of the General Counsel, Office of General Law, Social Security Administration, Attn: Touhy Officer, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD, 21235. If you are requesting testimony of an employee of the Office of the Inspector General, send your application to the address in ยง 403.125.

(d) The Commissioner has the sole discretion to waive any requirement in this section.

(e) If your application does not include each of the items required by paragraph (a) of this section, we may return it to you for additional information. Unless the Commissioner waives one or more requirements, we will not process an incomplete or untimely application.
