
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Introduction
####### ยง 30.0 What are the provisions of EEOICPA, in general?
######## et seq.,

Part B of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000, as amended (EEOICPA or Act), 42 U.S.C. 7384provides for the payment of compensation benefits to covered Part B employees and, where applicable, survivors of such employees, of the United States Department of Energy (DOE), its predecessor agencies and certain of its contractors and subcontractors. Part B also provides for the payment of supplemental compensation benefits to other covered Part B employees who have already been found eligible for benefits under section 5 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, as amended (RECA), 42 U.S.C. 2210 note, and where applicable, survivors of such persons. Part E of the Act provides for the payment of compensation benefits to covered Part E employees and, where applicable, survivors of such employees. The regulations in this part describe the rules governing filing, processing, and paying claims for benefits under both Part B and Part E of EEOICPA.

(a) Part B of EEOICPA provides for the payment of either lump-sum monetary compensation for the disability of a covered Part B employee due to an occupational illness or for monitoring for beryllium sensitivity, as well as for medical and related benefits for such illness. Part B also provides for the payment of monetary compensation for the disability of a covered Part B employee to specified survivors if the employee is deceased at the time of payment.

(b) Part E of EEOICPA provides for the payment of monetary compensation for the established wage-loss and/or impairment of a covered Part E employee due to a covered illness, and for medical and related benefits for such covered illness. Part E also provides for the payment of monetary compensation for the death (and established wage-loss, where applicable) of a covered Part E employee to specified survivors if the covered Part E employee is deceased at the time of payment.

(c) All types of benefits and conditions of eligibility listed in this section are subject to the provisions of EEOICPA and this part.
