
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### Introduction
####### § 30.2 In general, how have the tasks associated with the administration of EEOICPA claims process been assigned?

(a) In E.O. 13179, the President assigned the tasks associated with administration of the EEOICPA claims process among the Secretaries of Labor, HHS and Energy, and the Attorney General. In light of the fact that the Secretary of Labor has been assigned primary responsibility for administering EEOICPA, almost the entire claims process is within the exclusive control of OWCP. This means that all claimants file their claims with OWCP, and OWCP is responsible for granting or denying compensation under the Act (see §§ 30.100 through 30.102). OWCP also provides assistance to claimants and potential claimants by providing information regarding eligibility and other program requirements, including information on completing claim forms and the types and availability of medical testing and diagnostic services related to occupational illnesses under Part B of the Act and covered illnesses under Part E of the Act. In addition, OWCP provides an administrative review process for claimants who disagree with its recommended and final adverse decisions on claims of entitlement (see §§ 30.300 through 30.320).

(b) However, HHS has exclusive control of the portion of the claims process under which it provides reconstructed doses for certain radiogenic cancer claims (see § 30.115), which it delegated to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) in 42 CFR part 82. HHS also has exclusive control of the process for designating classes of employees to be added to the Special Exposure Cohort under Part B of the Act, and has promulgated regulations governing that process at 42 CFR part 83. Finally, HHS has promulgated regulations at 42 CFR part 81 that set out guidelines that OWCP follows when it assesses the compensability of an employee's radiogenic cancer (see § 30.213). DOE and DOJ must, among other things, notify potential claimants and submit evidence that OWCP deems necessary for its adjudication of claims under EEOICPA (see §§ 30.105, 30.112, 30.206, 30.212 and 30.221).
