
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart D - Old-Age, Disability, Dependents' and Survivors' Insurance Benefits; Period of Disability
##### Benefits for Spouses and Divorced Spouses
###### § 404.337 When does my entitlement to widow's and widower's benefits start and end?

(a) We will find you entitled to widow's or widower's benefits under § 404.335 or § 404.336 beginning with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all other requirements for entitlement.

(b) We will end your entitlement to widow's or widower's benefits at the earliest of the following times:

(1) The month before the month in which you become entitled to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the insured's primary insurance amount.

(2) The second month after the month your disability ends or, where disability ends on or after December 1, 1980, the month before your termination month (§ 404.325). However your payments are subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(3) If drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 404.1535, the month after the 12th consecutive month of suspension for noncompliance with treatment or after 36 months of benefits on that basis when treatment is available regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have had, unless you are otherwise disabled without regard to drug addiction or alcoholism.

(4) The month before the month in which you die.

(c)(1) Your benefits may be continued after your impairment is no longer disabling if-

(i) You are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services, as described in § 404.327(a) and (b);

(ii) You began participating in the program before the date your disability ended; and

(iii) We have determined under § 404.328 that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.

(2) We generally will stop your benefits with the earliest of these months-

(i) The month in which you complete the program; or

(ii) The month in which you stop participating in the program for any reason (see § 404.327(b) for what we mean by "participating" in the program); or

(iii) The month in which we determine under § 404.328 that your continuing participation in the program will no longer increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
