
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart G - Filing of Applications and Other Forms
##### Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
###### ยง 404.633 Deemed filing date in a case of misinformation.
####### Deemed filing date of an application based on misinformation.

(b)Subject to the requirements and conditions in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for monthly benefits under the following provisions.

(1)(i) If we determine that you failed to apply for monthly benefits for yourself because we gave you misinformation about your eligibility for such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of-

(A) The date on which the misinformation was provided to you; or

(B) The date on which you met all of the requirements for entitlement to such benefits, other than the requirement of filing an application.

(ii) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for benefits for you under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, you or a person described in ยง 404.612 must file an application for such benefits. If you die before an application for the benefits is filed with us, we will consider establishing a deemed filing date of an application for such benefits only if an application for the benefits is filed with us by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due you.

(2)(i) If you had authority under ยง 404.612 to sign an application for benefits for another person, and we determine that you failed to apply for monthly benefits for that person because we gave you misinformation about that person's eligibility for such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of-

(A) The date on which the misinformation was provided to you; or

(B) The date on which the person met all of the requirements for entitlement to such benefits, other than the requirement of filing an application.

(ii) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for benefits for the person under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, you, such person, or another person described in ยง 404.612 must file an application for such benefits. If the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section dies before an application for the benefits is filed with us, we will consider establishing a deemed filing date of an application for such benefits only if an application for the benefits is filed with us by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due the deceased person.
