
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Filing Claims; Evidence and Burden of Proof; Special Procedures for Certain Cancer Claims
###### Filing Claims for Benefits Under EEOICPA
####### ยง 30.102 In general, how does an employee file a claim for additional impairment or wage-loss under Part E of EEOICPA?

(a) An employee previously awarded impairment benefits by OWCP may file a claim for additional impairment benefits. Such claim must be based on an increase in the employee's impairment rating attributable to the covered illness or illnesses from the impairment rating that formed the basis for the last award of such benefits by OWCP. OWCP will only adjudicate claims for such an increased rating that are filed at least two years from the date of the last award of impairment benefits. However, OWCP will not wait two years before it will adjudicate a claim for additional impairment that is based on an allegation that the employee sustained a new covered illness.

(b) An employee previously awarded wage-loss benefits by OWCP may be eligible for additional wage-loss benefits for periods of wage-loss that were not addressed in a prior claim only if the employee had not reached his or her Social Security retirement age at the time of the prior award. OWCP will adjudicate claims filed on a yearly basis in connection with each succeeding calendar year for which qualifying wage-loss under Part E is alleged, as well as claims that aggregate calendar years for which qualifying wage-loss is alleged.

(c) Employees should use Form EE-10 to claim for additional impairment or wage-loss benefits under Part E of EEOICPA.

(1) The employee, or the person filing the claim on behalf of the employee, shall affirm that the information provided on Form EE-10 is true, and must inform OWCP of any subsequent changes to that information.

(2) The employee is responsible for submitting with any claim filed under this section, or arranging for the submission of, factual and medical evidence establishing that he or she experienced another calendar year of qualifying wage-loss, and/or medical evidence establishing that he or she has an increased minimum impairment rating, as appropriate.
