
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Filing Claims; Evidence and Burden of Proof; Special Procedures for Certain Cancer Claims
###### Evidence and Burden of Proof
####### § 30.110 Who is entitled to compensation under the Act?

(a) Under Part B of EEOICPA, compensation is payable to the following covered Part B employees, or their survivors:

(1) A "covered beryllium employee" (as described in § 30.205(a)) with a covered beryllium illness (as defined in § 30.5(p)) who was exposed to beryllium in the performance of duty (in accordance with § 30.206).

(2) A "covered Part B employee with cancer" (as described in § 30.210(a)).

(3) A "covered Part B employee with chronic silicosis" (as described in § 30.220).

(4) A "covered uranium employee" (as defined in § 30.5(t)).

(b) Under Part E of EEOICPA, compensation is payable to a "covered Part E employee" (as defined in § 30.5(q)), or his or her survivors.

(c) Any claim that does not meet all of the criteria for at least one of these categories, as set forth in the regulations in this part, must be denied.

(d) All claims for benefits under the Act must comply with the claims procedures and requirements set forth in subpart B of this part before any payment can be made from the Fund.
