
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Filing Claims; Evidence and Burden of Proof; Special Procedures for Certain Cancer Claims
###### Evidence and Burden of Proof
####### § 30.112 What kind of evidence is needed to establish covered employment and how will that evidence be evaluated?

(a) Evidence of covered employment may include: employment records; pay stubs; tax returns; Social Security records; and written affidavits or declarations, subject to penalty of perjury, by the employee, survivor or any other person. However, no one document is required to establish covered employment and a claimant is not required to submit all of the evidence listed above. A claimant may submit other evidence not listed above to establish covered employment. To be acceptable as evidence, all documents and records must be legible. OWCP will accept photocopies, certified copies, and original documents and records.

(b) Pursuant to §§ 30.105 and/or 30.106, DOE or another entity verifying alleged employment shall certify that it concurs with the employment information provided by the claimant, that it disagrees with the information provided by the claimant, or, after a reasonable search of its records and a reasonable effort to locate pertinent records not already in its possession, it can neither concur nor disagree with the information provided by the claimant.

(1) If DOE or another entity certifies that it concurs with the employment information provided by the claimant, then the criterion for covered employment will be established.

(2) If DOE or another entity certifies that it disagrees with the information provided by the claimant or that after a reasonable search of its records and a reasonable effort to locate pertinent records not already in its possession it can neither concur nor disagree with the information provided by the claimant, OWCP will evaluate the evidence submitted by the claimant to determine whether the claimant has established covered employment by a preponderance of the evidence. OWCP may request additional evidence from the claimant to demonstrate that the claimant has met the criterion for covered employment. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit OWCP's ability to require additional documentation.

(3) If the only evidence of covered employment submitted by the claimant is a written affidavit or declaration subject to penalty of perjury by the employee, survivor or any other person, and DOE or another entity either disagrees with the assertion of covered employment or cannot concur or disagree with the assertion of covered employment, then OWCP will evaluate the probative value of the affidavit in conjunction with the other evidence of employment, and may determine that the claimant has not met his or her burden of proof under § 30.111.
