
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Filing Claims; Evidence and Burden of Proof; Special Procedures for Certain Cancer Claims
###### Evidence and Burden of Proof
####### § 30.114 What kind of evidence is needed to establish a compensable medical condition and how will that evidence be evaluated?

(a) Evidence of a compensable medical condition may include: a physician's report, laboratory reports, hospital records, death certificates, x-rays, magnetic resonance images or reports, computer axial tomography or other imaging reports, lymphocyte proliferation testings, beryllium patch tests, pulmonary function or exercise testing results, pathology reports including biopsy results and other medical records. A claimant is not required to submit all of the evidence listed in this paragraph. A claimant may submit other evidence that is not listed in this paragraph to establish a compensable medical condition. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit OWCP's ability to require additional documentation.

(b) The medical evidence submitted will be used to establish the diagnosis and the date of diagnosis of the compensable medical condition.

(1) For covered beryllium illnesses under Part B of EEOICPA, additional medical evidence, as set forth in § 30.207, is required to establish a beryllium illness.

(2) For chronic silicosis under Part B of EEOICPA, additional medical evidence, as set forth in § 30.222, is required to establish chronic silicosis.

(3) For covered illnesses under Part E of EEOICPA, additional medical evidence, as set forth in § 30.232, is required to establish a covered illness.

(i) For impairment benefits under Part E of EEOICPA, additional medical evidence, as set forth in § 30.901, is required to establish an impairment that is the result of a covered illness referred to in § 30.900.

(ii) For wage-loss benefits under Part E of EEOICPA, additional medical evidence, as set forth in § 30.806, is required to establish wage-loss that is the result of a covered illness referred to in § 30.800.

(4) For consequential injuries, illnesses, impairments or diseases, the claimant must also submit a physician's fully rationalized medical report showing a causal relationship between the resulting injury, illness, impairment or disease and the compensable medical condition.

(c) OWCP will evaluate the medical evidence in accordance with recognized and accepted diagnostic criteria used by physicians to determine whether the claimant has established the medical condition for which compensation is sought in accordance with the requirements of the Act.
