
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart K - Employment, Wages, Self-Employment, and Self-Employment Income
##### Employment
###### § 404.1004 What work is covered as employment?
####### General requirements of employment.

(a)Unless otherwise excluded from coverage under §§ 404.1012 through 404.1038, the work you perform as an employee for your employer is covered as employment under social security if one of the following situations applies:

(1) You perform the work within the United States (whether or not you or your employer are a citizen or resident of the United States).

(2) You perform the work outside the United States and you are a citizen or resident of the United States working for-

(i) An American employer; or

(ii) A foreign affiliate of an American employer that has in effect an agreement covering your work under section 3121(l) of the Code.

(3) You perform the work on or in connection with an American vessel or American aircraft and the conditions in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) are met. Your citizenship or residence does not matter. The citizenship or residence of your employer matters only if it affects whether the vessel is an American vessel.

(i) You enter into the contract of employment within the United States or the vessel or aircraft touches at a port or airport within the United States during the performance of your contract of employment on the vessel or aircraft.

(ii) You are employed on and in connection with the vessel or aircraft when outside the United States.

(4) Your work is designated as employment or recognized as equivalent to employment under a totalization agreement. (See § 404.1913. An agreement may exempt work from coverage as well as extend coverage to work.)

(5) Your work performed after December 31, 1994, is in the employ of an international organization pursuant to a transfer from a Federal agency under section 3582 of title 5 of the United States Code and both the following are met:

(i) Immediately before the transfer, your work for the Federal agency was covered employment; and

(ii) You would be entitled, upon separation from the international organization and proper application, to reemployment with the Federal agency under section 3582.
