
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart K - Employment, Wages, Self-Employment, and Self-Employment Income
##### Work Excluded From Employment
###### ยง 404.1034 Work for an international organization.

(a) If you work as an employee of an international organization entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act (59 Stat. 669), your work is excluded from employment except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The organization must meet the following conditions:

(1) It must be a public international organization in which the United States participates under a treaty or authority of an act of Congress authorizing, or making an appropriation for, participation.

(2) It must be designated by executive order to be entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities provided in the International Organizations Immunities Act.

(3) The designation must be in effect, and all conditions and limitations in the designation must be met.

(b) Your work will not be excluded under this section if any of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are not met.

(c) Your work performed after December 31, 1994 will not be excluded under this section if you perform service in the employ of an international organization pursuant to a transfer from a Federal agency under section 3582 of title 5 of the United States Code and

(1) Immediately before such transfer you performed service with a Federal agency which was covered as employment; and

(2) You would be entitled, upon separation from the international organization and proper application, to reemployment with the Federal agency under section 3582.

(d) If you are a citizen of the United States and work in the United States as an employee of an international organization that meets the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section and you are not subject to coverage based on paragraph (c) of this section, you are considered to be self-employed (ยง 404.1068(d)).
