
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart D - Adjudicatory Process
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 30.301 May subpoenas be issued for witnesses and documents in connection with a claim under Part B of EEOICPA?

(a) In connection with the adjudication of a claim under Part B of EEOICPA, an OWCP district office and/or a FAB reviewer may, at their own initiative, issue subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and for the production of books, electronic records, correspondence, papers or other relevant documents. Subpoenas will only be issued for documents if they are relevant and cannot be obtained by other means, and for witnesses only where oral testimony is the best way to ascertain the facts.

(b) A claimant may also request a subpoena in connection with his or her claim under Part B of the Act, but such request may only be made to a FAB reviewer. No subpoenas will be issued at the request of the claimant under any other portion of the claims process. The decision to grant or deny such request is within the discretion of the FAB reviewer. To request a subpoena under this section, the requestor must:

(1) Submit the request in writing and send it to the FAB reviewer as early as possible, but no later than 30 days (as evidenced by postmark or other carrier's date marking) after the date of the original hearing request;

(2) Explain why the testimony or evidence is directly relevant and material to the issues in the case; and

(3) Establish that a subpoena is the best method or opportunity to obtain such evidence because there are no other means by which the documents or testimony could have been obtained.

(c) No subpoena will be issued for attendance of employees or contractors of OWCP or NIOSH acting in their official capacities as decision-makers or policy administrators. For hearings taking the form of a review of the written record, no subpoena for the appearance of witnesses will be considered.

(d) The FAB reviewer will issue the subpoena under his or her own name. It may be served in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the person to be served at his or her last known principal place of business or residence. A decision to deny a subpoena requested by a claimant can only be challenged as part of a request for reconsideration of any adverse decision of the FAB which results from the hearing.
