
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart D - Adjudicatory Process
###### Hearings and Final Decisions on Claims
####### ยง 30.314 How is a hearing conducted?

(a) The FAB reviewer retains complete discretion to set the time and place of the hearing, including the amount of time allotted for the hearing, considering the issues to be resolved. At the discretion of the reviewer, the hearing may be conducted by telephone, teleconference, videoconference or other electronic means. As part of the hearing process, the FAB reviewer will consider the written record forwarded by the district office and any additional evidence and/or argument submitted by the claimant. The reviewer may also conduct whatever investigation is deemed necessary.

(1) The FAB reviewer will try to set the hearing at a place that is within commuting distance of the claimant's residence, but will not be able to do so in all cases. Therefore, for reasons of economy, the claimant may be required to travel a roundtrip distance of up to 200 miles to attend the hearing.

(2) In unusual circumstances, the FAB reviewer may set a place for the hearing that is more than 200 miles roundtrip from the claimant's residence. However, in that situation, OWCP will reimburse the claimant for reasonable and necessary travel expenses incurred to attend the hearing if he or she submits a written reimbursement request that documents such expenses.

(b) The FAB reviewer will mail a notice of the time and place of the hearing to the claimant and any representative at least 30 days before the scheduled hearing date. The FAB reviewer may mail a hearing notice less than 30 days prior to the hearing if the claimant and/or representative waives the above 30-day notice period in writing. If the claimant only objects to part of the recommended decision, the FAB reviewer may issue a final decision accepting the remaining part of the recommendation of the district office without first holding a hearing (see ยง 30.316). Any objection that is not presented to the FAB reviewer, including any objection to NIOSH's reconstruction of the radiation dose to which the employee was exposed (if any), whether or not the pertinent issue was previously presented to the district office, is deemed waived for all purposes.

(c) The hearing is an informal process, and the reviewer is not bound by common law or statutory rules of evidence, or by technical or formal rules of procedure. The reviewer may conduct the hearing in such manner as to best ascertain the rights of the claimant. During the hearing process, the claimant may state his or her arguments and present new written evidence and/or testimony in support of the claim.

(d) Testimony at hearings is recorded, then transcribed and placed in the record. Oral testimony shall be made under oath.

(e) The FAB reviewer will furnish a transcript of the hearing to the claimant, who has 20 days from the date it is sent to submit any comments to the reviewer.

(f) The claimant will have 30 days after the hearing is held to submit additional evidence or argument, unless the reviewer, in his or her sole discretion, grants an extension. Only one such extension may be granted.

(g) The reviewer determines the conduct of the hearing and may terminate the hearing at any time he or she determines that all relevant evidence has been obtained, or because of misbehavior on the part of the claimant and/or representative at or near the place of the oral presentation.
