
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart D - Adjudicatory Process
###### Hearings and Final Decisions on Claims
####### ยง 30.315 May a claimant postpone a hearing?

(a) The FAB will entertain any reasonable request for scheduling the time and place of the hearing, but such requests should be made at the time that the hearing is requested. Scheduling is at the discretion of the FAB, and is not reviewable. In most instances, once the hearing has been scheduled and appropriate written notice has been mailed, it cannot be postponed at the claimant's request for any reason except those stated in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the FAB reviewer can reschedule the hearing on the same docket (that is, during the same hearing trip). If a request to postpone a scheduled hearing does not meet one of the tests of paragraph (b) of this section and cannot be accommodated on the same docket, or if the claimant and/or representative cancels or fails to attend a scheduled hearing, no further opportunity for a hearing will be provided. Instead, the FAB will consider the claimant's objections by means of a review of the written record. In the alternative, a teleconference may be substituted for the hearing at the discretion of the reviewer.

(b) Where the claimant or the representative appointed by the claimant in accordance with ยง 30.600 of this part has a medical reason that prevents attendance at the hearing, or where the death or illness of the claimant's parent, spouse, or child prevents the claimant from attending the hearing as scheduled, a postponement may be granted in the discretion of the FAB if the claimant or the representative provides at least 24 hours notice and a reasonable explanation supporting his or her inability to attend the scheduled hearing.

(c) At any time after requesting a hearing, the claimant can request a change to a review of the written record by making a written request to the FAB. Once such a change is made, no further opportunity for a hearing will be provided.
