
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart D - Adjudicatory Process
###### Hearings and Final Decisions on Claims
####### ยง 30.319 May a claimant request reconsideration of a final decision of the FAB?

(a) A claimant may request reconsideration of a final decision of the FAB by filing a written request with the FAB within 30 days from the date of issuance of such decision. If a timely request for reconsideration is made, the decision in question will no longer be considered "final" under ยง 30.316(d).

(b) For purposes of determining whether the written request referred to in paragraph (a) of this section has been timely filed with the FAB, the request will be considered to be "filed" on the date that the claimant mails it to the FAB, as determined by postmark or other carrier's date marking, or on the date that such written request is actually received, whichever is the earliest determinable date.

(c) A hearing is not available as part of the reconsideration process. If the FAB grants the request for reconsideration, it will consider the written record of the claim again and issue a new final decision on the claim. A new final decision that is issued after the FAB grants a request for reconsideration will be "final" upon the date of issuance of such new decision.

(1) Instead of issuing a new final decision after granting a request for reconsideration, the FAB may return the claim to the district office for further development as provided in ยง 30.317.

(2) If the FAB denies the request for reconsideration, the FAB decision that formed the basis for the request will be considered "final" upon the date the request is denied, and no further requests for reconsideration of that particular final decision of the FAB will be entertained.

(d) A claimant may not seek judicial review of a decision on his or her claim under EEOICPA until OWCP's decision on the claim is final pursuant to either ยง 30.316(d) (for claims in which no request for reconsideration was filed with the FAB) or paragraph (c) of this section (for claims in which a request for reconsideration was filed with the FAB).
