
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart M - Coverage of Employees of State and Local Governments
##### What Groups of Employees May Be Covered
###### ยง 404.1207 Divided retirement system coverage groups.
####### Divided retirement system coverage group.

(b)A divided retirement system coverage group is a grouping under a retirement system of positions of members of the system who voted for coverage and positions of individuals who become members of the system (the "yes" group), and positions of members of the system who did not elect coverage (the "no" group) and ineligible employees (see ยง 404.1208). For purposes of this section for groups covered after 1959, the term "member" also includes individuals who have an option to become members of the retirement system but have not done so. The position of a member in the "no" group can be covered if, within two years after the agreement or modification extending coverage to the "yes" group is executed, the State provides an opportunity to transfer the position to the covered "yes" group and the individual occupying the position makes a written request for the transfer. The members of the "no" group can also be covered if, by referendum, a majority of them vote for coverage. If the majority votes for coverage, all positions of the members of the "no" group become covered. There is no further subdivision of the "no" group into those who voted for and those who voted against coverage. If the State requests, the ineligibles in the "no" group may become part of the "yes" group and have their services covered.
