
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart E - Medical and Related Benefits
###### Directed Medical Examinations
####### ยง 30.411 What happens if the opinion of the physician selected by OWCP differs from the opinion of the physician selected by the employee?

(a) If one medical opinion holds more probative value than the other, OWCP will base its determination of coverage on the medical opinion with the greatest probative value. A difference in medical opinion sufficient to be considered a conflict only occurs when two reports of virtually equal weight and rationale reach opposing conclusions.

(b) If a conflict exists between the medical opinion of the employee's physician and the medical opinion of a second opinion physician, an OWCP medical adviser or consultant, or a physician submitting an impairment evaluation that meets the criteria set out in ยง 30.905 of this part, OWCP shall appoint a third physician who conforms to the standards regarding conflicts of interest adopted by OWCP to make an examination or an impairment evaluation. This is called a referee examination or a referee impairment evaluation. OWCP will select a physician who is qualified in the appropriate specialty and who has had no prior connection with the case. Also, a case file may be sent to a physician who conforms to the standards regarding conflicts of interest adopted by OWCP for a referee medical review where there is no need for an actual examination, or where the employee is deceased.

(c) If the initial referee examination or referee impairment evaluation is disrupted by someone accompanying the employee, OWCP will schedule another examination or impairment evaluation with a different qualified physician who conforms to the standards regarding conflicts of interest adopted by OWCP. The employee will not be entitled to have anyone else present at the subsequent referee examination or referee impairment evaluation unless OWCP decides that exceptional circumstances exist. For example, where a hearing-impaired employee needs an interpreter, the presence of an interpreter would be allowed.

(d) OWCP may administratively close the claim and suspend adjudication of any pending matters if the employee refuses to attend a referee medical examination.
