
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart M - Coverage of Employees of State and Local Governments
##### If a State Fails To Make Timely Payments - for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
###### ยง 404.1265 Addition of interest to contributions - for wages paid prior to 1987.
####### Verifying contributions paid against reported wages.

(d)We check the computation of contributions to verify that a State has paid the correct amount of contributions on the wages it reports for a calendar year (see ยง 404.1249(b)(2)). If we determine that a State paid less than the amount of contributions due for that year, we add interest to the amount of the underpayment. We would add interest beginning with the date the unpaid contributions were initially due to the date those contributions are paid. However, if the total amount of the underpayment is 5 percent or less than 5 percent of the contributions due for a calendar year based upon the State's wage report and the State deposits the underpaid amount within 30 days after the date of our notification to the State of the amount due, the State may request that the interest on the underpaid amount be waived for good cause. This request must be made within 30 days of our notification to the State of the amount due. Such requests will be evaluated on an individual basis. The evaluation will include, but not be limited to, consideration of such factors as the circumstances causing the late payment, the State's past record of late payments and the amount involved.
