
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart M - Coverage of Employees of State and Local Governments
##### How Errors in Reports and Contributions Are Adjusted - for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
###### ยง 404.1276 Reports and payments erroneously made to Internal Revenue Service-transfer of funds - for wages paid prior to 1987.
####### Filing wage reports and paying contributions.

(e)Generally, the entity or individual that makes the erroneous reports and payments requests the refund from IRS for periods not barred by the statute of limitations. The State files the necessary reports with SSA and pays any contributions due. The reports shall conform to the coverage provided by the agreement to the extent permitted by the statute of limitations. The due date for these reports depends on whether original reports or adjustment reports are involved. Reports and contribution returns for the entire retroactive period of coverage provided by a regular or error modification are due 90 days after the date of execution of the modification. The time limitations for issuing assessments and credits or refunds extend from this due date. Thus, SSA may issue assessments or credits or refunds for periods barred to refund by IRS. The State may request that reports and payments for the IRS barred periods be considered made under the agreement as described in paragraph (f) of this section.
