
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart M - Coverage of Employees of State and Local Governments
##### How Overpayments of Contributions Are Credited or Refunded - for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
###### ยง 404.1283 Exceptions to the time limitations on credits or refunds - for wages paid prior to 1987.
####### Extension by agreement.

(a)(1)The applicable time period described in ยง 404.1282 for filing a claim for credit for, or refund of, an overpayment may, before the expiration of such period, be extended for no more than 6 months by written agreement between the State and the Commissioner. The agreement must involve and identify a known issue or reporting error. It must also identify the periods involved, the time limitation which is being extended and the date to which it is being extended, and the coverage group(s) and position(s) or individual(s) to which the agreement applies. The extension of the period of limitation shall not become effective until the agreement is signed by the appropriate State official and the Commissioner. (See ยง 404.3(c) for the applicable rule where periods of limitation expire on nonwork days.) A claim for credit or refund filed by the State before the extended time limit ends shall be considered to have been filed within the time period limitation specified in section 218(r)(1) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509. (See ยง 404.1282.)
