
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart N - Wage Credits for Veterans and Members of the Uniformed Services
##### General
###### ยง 404.1301 Introduction.

(a) The Social Security Act (Act), under section 217, provides for noncontributory wage credits to veterans who served in the active military or naval service of the United States from September 16, 1940, through December 31, 1956. These individuals are considered World War II or post-World War II veterans. The Act also provides for noncontributory wage credits to certain individuals who served in the active military or naval service of an allied country during World War II. These individuals are considered World War II veterans. In addition, certain individuals get wage credits, under section 229 of the Act, for service as members of the uniformed services on active duty or active duty for training beginning in 1957 when that service was first covered for social security purposes on a contributory basis through 2001. These individuals are considered members of the uniformed services.

(b) World War II or post-World War II veterans receive wage credits based on the length of active military or naval service, type of separation from service and, in some cases, whether the veteran is receiving another Federal benefit. However, a member of a uniformed service receives wage credits regardless of length of service, type of separation, or receipt of another Federal benefit.

(c) The Social Security Administration (SSA) uses these wage credits, along with any covered wages or self-employment income of the veteran or member of a uniformed service, to determine entitlement to, and the amount of, benefits and the lump-sum death payment that may be paid to them, their dependents or survivors under the old-age, survivors', and disability insurance programs. These wage credits can also be used by the veteran or member of the uniformed service to meet the insured status and quarters of coverage requirements for a period of disability.

(d) This subpart tells how veterans or members of the uniformed services obtain wage credits, what evidence of service SSA requires, how SSA uses the wage credits, and how the wage credits are affected by payment of other benefits.

(e) This subpart explains that certain World War II veterans who die are considered (deemed) fully insured. This gives those veterans' survivors the same benefit rights as if the veterans were actually fully insured when they died.

(f) The rules are organized in the following manner:

(1) Sections 404.1310 through 404.1313 contain the rules on World War II veterans. We discuss who may qualify as a World War II veteran, how we determine whether the 90-day active service requirement for a World War II veteran is met, what we consider to be World War II active military or naval service, and what we do not consider to be World War II active military or naval service.

(2) Sections 404.1320 through 404.1323 contain the rules on post-World War II veterans. We discuss who may qualify as a post-World War II veteran, how we determine whether the 90-day active service requirement for a post-World War II veteran is met, what we consider to be post-World War II active military or naval service, and what we do not consider to be post-World War II active military or naval service.
