
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart N - Wage Credits for Veterans and Members of the Uniformed Services
##### General
###### § 404.1301 Introduction.
####### separation under conditions other than dishonorable.

(3) In § 404.1325 we discuss what is aThe law requires that a World War II or post-World War II veteran's separation from active military or naval service be other than dishonorable for the veteran to get wage credits.

(4) Section 404.1330 contains the rules on members of the uniformed services. We discuss who may qualify as a member of a uniformed service.

(5) In §§ 404.1340 through 404.1343, we discuss the amount of wage credits for veterans and members of the uniformed services, situations which may limit the use of wage credits for World War II and post-World War II veterans, and situations in which the limits do not apply.

(6) Sections 404.1350 through 404.1352 contain the rules on deemed insured status for World War II veterans. We discuss when deemed insured status applies, the amount of wage credits used for deemed insured World War II veterans, how the wage credits affect survivors' social security benefits, and when deemed insured status does not apply.

(7) Sections 404.1360 through 404.1363 contain the rules on the effect of other benefits on the payment of social security benefits and lump-sum death payments based on wage credits for veterans. We discuss what happens when we learn of a determination that a Veterans Administration pension or compensation is payable or that a Federal benefit is payable before or after we determine entitlement to a montly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the death of the veteran.

(8) Sections 404.1370 and 404.1371 contain the rules on what we accept as evidence of a World War II and post-World War II veteran's active military or naval service, including date and type of separation, and what we accept as evidence of entitlement to wage credits for membership in a uniformed service during the years 1957 through 1967.
