
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart F - Survivors; Payments and Offsets; Overpayments
###### Payment of Claims and Offset for Certain Payments
####### ยง 30.505 What procedures will OWCP follow before it pays any compensation?
######## e.g.,e.g.

(1) For the purposes of this paragraph (b) only, "litigation seeking damages" refers to any request or demand for money (other than for workers' compensation) by the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee, or by another individual if the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee is deceased, made or sought in a civil action or in anticipation of the filing of a civil action, for injuries incurred on account of an exposure for which compensation is payable under EEOICPA. This term does not also include any request or demand for money made or sought pursuant to a life insurance or health insurance contract, or any request or demand for money made or sought by an individual other than the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee in that individual's own right (, a spouse's claim for loss of consortium), or any request or demand for money made or sought by the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee (or the estate of a deceased covered Part B employee or deceased covered Part E employee) not for injuries incurred on account of an exposure for which compensation is payable under the EEOICPA (, a covered Part B employee's or a covered Part E employee's claim for damage to real or personal property).

(2) If a payment has been made pursuant to a final judgment or settlement in litigation seeking damages, OWCP shall subtract a portion of the dollar amount of such payment from the benefit payments to be made under EEOICPA. OWCP will calculate the amount to be subtracted from the benefit payments in the following manner:

(i) OWCP will first determine the value of the payment made pursuant to either a final judgment or settlement in litigation seeking damages by adding the dollar amount of any monetary damages (excluding contingent awards) and any medical expenses for treatment provided on or after the date the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee filed a claim for EEOICPA benefits that were paid for under the final judgment or settlement. In the event that these payments include a "structured" settlement (where a party makes an initial cash payment and also arranges, usually through the purchase of an annuity, for payments in the future), OWCP will usually accept the cost of the annuity to the purchaser as the dollar amount of the right to receive the future payments.

(ii) OWCP will then make certain deductions from the above dollar amount to arrive at the dollar amount to be subtracted from any unpaid EEOICPA benefits. Allowable deductions consist of attorney's fees OWCP deems reasonable, and itemized costs of suit (out-of-pocket expenditures not part of the normal overhead of a law firm's operation like filing fees, travel expenses, witness fees, and court reporter costs for transcripts) provided that adequate supporting documentation is submitted to OWCP.

(iii) The EEOICPA benefits that will be reduced will consist of any unpaid lump-sum payments payable in the future and medical benefits payable in the future. In those cases where it has not yet paid EEOICPA benefits, OWCP will reduce such benefits on a dollar-for-dollar basis, beginning with the lump-sum payments first. If the amount to be subtracted exceeds the lump-sum payments, OWCP will reduce ongoing EEOICPA medical benefits payable in the future by the amount of any remaining surplus. This means that OWCP will apply the amount it would otherwise pay to reimburse the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee for any ongoing EEOICPA medical treatment to the remaining surplus until it is absorbed. In addition to this reduction of ongoing EEOICPA medical benefits, OWCP will not be the first payer for any medical expenses that are the responsibility of another party (who will instead be the first payer) as part of a final judgment or settlement in litigation seeking damages.

(3) The above reduction of EEOICPA benefits will not occur if an EEOICPA claimant had his or her award under section 5 of RECA reduced by the full amount of the payment made pursuant to a final judgment or settlement in litigation seeking damages. It will also not occur if an EEOICPA claimant's prior payment of EEOICPA benefits, or his or her workers' compensation benefits, were offset to reflect the full amount of the payment made pursuant to a final judgment or settlement in litigation seeking damages. However, if the prior reduction or offset of the above benefits did not reflect the full amount of the payment made pursuant to a final judgment or settlement in litigation seeking damages, OWCP will reduce currently payable EEOICPA benefits by the amount of any surplus final judgment or settlement payment that remains.

(c) Except as provided in ยง 30.506(b) of these regulations, when OWCP has verified the identity of every claimant who is entitled to the compensation payment, or to a share of the compensation payment, and has determined the correct amount of the payment or the share of the payment, OWCP shall notify every claimant, every duly appointed guardian or conservator of a claimant, or every person with power of attorney for a claimant, and require such person or persons to complete a Form EN-20 providing payment information. Such form shall be signed and returned to OWCP within sixty days of the date of the form or within such greater period as may be allowed by OWCP. Failure to sign and return the form within the required time may be deemed to be a rejection of the payment. If the claimant dies before the payment is received, the person who receives the payment shall return it to OWCP for redetermination of the correct disbursement of the payment. No payment shall be made until OWCP has made a determination concerning the survivors related to a respective claim for benefits.

(d) The total amount of compensation (other than medical benefits) under Part E that can be paid to all claimants as a result of the exposure of a covered Part E employee shall not be more than $250,000 in any circumstances.
