
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart F - Survivors; Payments and Offsets; Overpayments
###### Payment of Claims and Offset for Certain Payments
####### ยง 30.506 To whom and in what manner will OWCP pay compensation?

(a) Except with respect to claims under Part B of the Act for beryllium sensitivity, payment shall be made to the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee, to the duly appointed guardian or conservator of that individual, or to the person with power of attorney for that individual, unless the covered Part B employee or covered Part E employee is deceased at the time of the payment. In all cases involving a deceased covered Part B employee or deceased covered Part E employee, payment shall be made to the eligible surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries, to the duly appointed guardian or conservator of the eligible surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries, or to every person with power of attorney for an eligible surviving beneficiary, in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in sections 7384s(e), 7384u(e), and 7385s-3(c) and (d) of EEOICPA.

(b) Under Part B of the Act, compensation for any consequential injury, illness, impairment or disease is limited to payment of medical benefits for that injury, illness, impairment or disease. Under Part E of the Act, compensation for any consequential injury, illness, impairment or disease consists of medical benefits for that injury, illness, impairment or disease, as well as any additional monetary benefits that are consistent with the terms of ยง 30.505(d).

(c) Rejected compensation payments, or shares of compensation payments, shall not be distributed to other eligible surviving beneficiaries, but shall be returned to the Fund.

(d) No covered Part B employee may receive more than one lump-sum payment under Part B of EEOICPA for any occupational illnesses he or she contracted. However, any individual, including a covered Part B employee who has received a lump-sum payment for his or her own occupational illness or illnesses, may receive one lump-sum payment for each deceased covered Part B employee for whom he or she qualifies as an eligible surviving beneficiary under Part B of the Act.
