
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Widows, Widowers, and Surviving Divorced Spouses
###### ยง 404.1579 How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends.
####### Determining whether medical improvement is related to ability to work.

(2)If there is a decrease in medical severity as shown by the signs, symptoms and laboratory findings, we then must determine if it is related to your ability to do work, as explained in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In determining if the medical improvement that has occurred is related to your ability to work, we will assess whether the previously existing impairments still meet or equal the level of severity contemplated by the same listing section in appendix 1 of this subpart which was used in making our most recent favorable decision. Appendix 1 of this subpart describes impairments which, if severe enough, affect a person's ability to work. If the appendix level of severity is met or equaled, the individual is deemed, in the absence of evidence of the contrary, to be unable to engage in gainful activity. If there has been medical improvement to the degree that the requirement of the listing section is no longer met or equaled, then the medical improvement is related to your ability to work. Unless an objective assessment shows that the listing requirement is no longer met or equaled based on actual changes shown by the medical evidence, the medical improvement that has occurred will not be considered to be related to your ability to work.
