
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability
###### § 404.1592e How do we determine provisional benefits?

(a) You may receive up to 6 consecutive months of provisional cash benefits and Medicare during the provisional benefit period, while we determine whether we can reinstate your disability benefit entitlement under § 404.1592c-

(1) We will pay you provisional benefits, and reinstate your Medicare if you are not already entitled to Medicare, beginning with the month you file your request for reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a) if you do not perform substantial gainful activity in that month. We will pay you provisional benefits, and reinstate your Medicare if you are not already entitled to Medicare, beginning with the month after you file your request for reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a) if you perform substantial gainful activity in the month in which you file your request for reinstatement.

(2) We will pay you a monthly provisional benefit amount equal to the last monthly benefit payable to you during your prior entitlement, increased by any cost of living increases that would have been applicable to the prior benefit amount under § 404.270. The last monthly benefit payable is the amount of the monthly insurance benefit we determined that was actually paid to you for the month before the month in which your entitlement was terminated, after we applied the reduction, deduction and nonpayment provisions in § 404.401 through § 404.480.

(3) If you are entitled to another monthly benefit payable under the provisions of title II of the Act for the same month you can be paid a provisional benefit, we will pay you an amount equal to the higher of the benefits payable.

(4) If you request reinstatement for more than one benefit entitlement, we will pay you an amount equal to the higher of the provisional benefits payable.

(5) If you are eligible for Supplemental Security Income payments, including provisional payments, we will reduce your provisional benefits under § 404.408b if applicable.

(6) We will not reduce your provisional benefit, or the payable benefit to other individuals entitled on an earnings record, under § 404.403, when your provisional benefit causes the total benefits payable on the earnings record to exceed the family maximum.

(b) You cannot receive provisional cash benefits or Medicare a second time under this section when-

(1) You request reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a);

(2) You previously received provisional cash benefits or Medicare under this section based upon a prior request for reinstatement filed under § 404.1592c(a); and

(3) Your requests under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) are for the same previous disability entitlement referred to in § 404.1592c(a)(2).
