
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability
###### § 404.1592e How do we determine provisional benefits?
####### Examples:

(4)

(c) We will not pay you a provisional benefit for a month when an applicable nonpayment rule applies. Examples of when we will not pay a benefit include, but are not limited to-

(1) If you are a prisoner under § 404.468;

(2) If you have been removed/deported under § 404.464; or

(3) If you are an alien outside the United States under § 404.460.

(d) We will not pay you a provisional benefit for any month that is after the earliest of the following months-

(1) The month we send you a notice of our determination on your request for reinstatement;

(2) The month you do substantial gainful activity;

(3) The month before the month you attain full retirement age; or

(4) The fifth month following the month you requested expedited reinstatement.

(e) You are not entitled to provisional benefits if-

(1) Prior to starting your provisional benefits, we determine that you do not meet the requirements for reinstatement under §§ 404.1592c(a); or

(2) We determine that your statements on your request for reinstatement, made under § 404.1592d(d)(2), are false.

(f) Determinations we make regarding your provisional benefits under paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section are final and are not subject to administrative and judicial review under subpart J of part 404.

(g) If you were previously overpaid benefits under title II or title XVI of the Act, we will not recover the overpayment from your provisional benefits unless you give us permission. We can recover Medicare premiums you owe from your provisional benefits.

(h) If we determine you are not entitled to reinstated benefits, provisional benefits we have already paid you under this section that were made prior to the termination month under paragraph (d) of this section will not be subject to recovery as an overpayment unless we determine that you knew, or should have known, you did not meet the requirements for reinstatement in § 404.1592c. If we inadvertently pay you provisional benefits when you are not entitled to them because we have already made a determination described in paragraph (e) of this section, they will be subject to recover as an overpayment under subpart F of part 404.
