
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability
###### § 404.1597a Continued benefits pending appeal of a medical cessation determination.
####### What anyone else must do to receive continued benefits pending our reconsideration determination or an administrative law judge's decision.

(h)(1) When you or another party (see §§ 404.908(a) and 404.932(a)) request a reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge on our medical cessation determination or when your case is sent back (remanded) to an administrative law judge for further action, you may choose to have benefits continue for anyone else who is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income. An eligible individual must also choose whether or not to have his or her benefits continue pending your appeal by completing a separate statement of election as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) He or she must request continuation of benefits no later than 10 days after the date he or she receives notice of termination of benefits. He or she will then receive continued benefits beginning with the later of January 1983, or the first month for which benefits are no longer otherwise payable following our initial or reconsideration determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling. Continued benefits will continue until the earlier of:

(i) The month before the month in which an administrative law judge's hearing decision finds that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling or the month before the month of the new administrative law judge decision (or final action is taken by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision) if your case was sent back to an administrative law judge for further action; or

(ii) The month before the month no timely request for a reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge is pending. These continued benefits may be stopped or adjusted because of certain events (such as work and earnings or payment of worker's compensation) which occur while an eligible individual is receiving continued benefits and affect his or her right to receive continued benefits.

(3) If he or she fails to request continuation of benefits within the 10-day period required by this paragraph, but requests continuation of benefits at a later date, we will use the rules as provided in § 404.911 to determine whether good cause exists for his or her failure to request continuation of benefits within 10 days after receipt of the notice of termination of his or her benefits. His or her late request will be considered to be timely and we will pay him or her continued benefits only if good cause for delay is established.

(4) If you choose not to have benefits continued for anyone else who is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income, pending the appeal on our determination, we will not continue benefits to him or her.
