
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability
###### ยง 404.1597a Continued benefits pending appeal of a medical cessation determination.
####### What you must do when your case is remanded to an administrative law judge.

(i)If we send back (remand) your case to an administrative law judge for further action under the rules provided in ยง 404.977, and the administrative law judge's decision or dismissal order issued on your medical cessation appeal is vacated and is no longer in effect, continued benefits are payable pending a new decision by the administrative law judge or final action is taken by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision.

(1) If you (and anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income or because of your disability) previously elected to receive continued benefits pending the administrative law judge's decision, we will automatically start these same continued benefits again. We will send you a notice telling you this, and that you do not have to do anything to have these same benefits continued until the month before the month the new decision of order of dismissal is issued by the administrative law judge or until the month before the month the Appeals Council takes final action on the administrative law judge's recommended decision. These benefits will begin again with the first month of nonpayment based on the prior administrative law judge hearing decision or dismissal order. Our notice explaining reinstatement of continued benefits will also tell you to report to us any changes or events that affect your receipt of benefits.

(2) After we automatically reinstate your continued benefits as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, we will contact you to determine if any adjustment is required to the amount of continued benefits payable due to events that affect the right to receive benefits involving you, your spouse and/or children. If you have returned to work, we will request additional information about this work activity. If you are working, your continued benefits will not be stopped while your appeal of the medical cessation of disability is still pending unless you have completed a trial work period and are engaging in substantial gainful activity. In this event, we will suspend your continued benefits. If any other changes have occurred which would require a reduction in benefit amounts, or nonpayment of benefits, we will send an advance notice to advise of any adverse change before the adjustment action is taken. The notice will also advise you of the right to explain why these benefits should not be adjusted or stopped. You will also receive a written notice of our determination. The notice will also explain your right to reconsideration if you disagree with this determination.

(3) If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is a favorable one, we will send you a written notice in which we will advise you of your right to benefits, if any, before you engaged in substantial gainful activity and to reentitlement should you stop performing substantial gainful activity. If you disagree with our determination, you will have the right to appeal this decision.

(4) If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is an unfavorable one (the cessation is affirmed), you will also be sent a written notice advising you of our determination, and your right to appeal if you think we are wrong.

(5) If you (or the others receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income or because of your disability) did not previously elect to have benefits continued pending an administrative law judge decision, and you now want to elect continued benefits, you must request to do so no later than 10 days after you receive our notice telling you about continued benefits. If you fail to request continued benefits within the 10-day period required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section, but later ask that we continue your benefits pending an administrative law judge remand decision, we will use the rules in ยง 404.911 to determine whether good cause exists for your failing to request benefit continuation within 10 days after receipt of the notice telling you about benefit continuation. We will consider the request to be timely and will pay continued benefits only if good cause for delay is established. If you make this new election, benefits may begin with the month of the order sending (remanding) your case back to the administrative law judge. Before we begin to pay you continued benefits as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section we will contact you to determine if any adjustment is required to the amount of continued benefits payable due to events which may affect your right to benefits. If you have returned to work, we will request additional information about this work activity. If you are working, continued benefits may be started and will not be stopped because of your work while your appeal of the medical cessation of your disability is still pending unless you have completed a trial work period and are engaging in substantial gainful activity. If any changes have occurred which establish a basis for not paying continued benefits or a reduction in benefit amount, we will send you a notice explaining the adjustment or the reason why we cannot pay continued benefits. The notice will also explain your right to reconsideration if you disagree with this determination. If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is a favorable one, we will send you a written notice in which we will advise you of your right to benefits, if any, before you engaged in substantial gainful activity and to reentitlement should you stop performing substantial gainful activity. If you disagree with our determination, you will have the right to appeal this decision. If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is an unfavorable one (the cessation is affirmed), you will also be sent a written notice advising you of our determination, and your right to appeal if you think we are wrong.

(6) If a court orders that your case be sent back to us (remanded) and your case is sent to an administrative law judge for further action under the rules provided in ยง 404.983, the administrative law judge's decision or dismissal order on your medical cessation appeal is vacated and is no longer in effect. Continued benefits are payable to you and anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income or because of your disability pending a new decision by the administrative law judge or final action is taken by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision. In these court-remanded cases reaching the administrative law judge, we will follow the same rules provided in paragraphs (i) (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this section.
