
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Appendix 1 to Subpart P of Part 404 - Listing of Impairments
###### What is pulse oximetry, and what are our requirements for an acceptable test and report?

H.

1. Pulse oximetry measures SO, the percentage of oxygen saturation of blood hemoglobin. We use a pulse oximetry measurement (either at rest, during a 6MWT, or after a 6MWT) to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 3.02C3 or, if you have CF, to evaluate it under 3.04F.

2. We have the following requirements for pulse oximetry under 3.02C3:

a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. See 3.00E2a.

b. Your pulse oximetry measurement must be recorded while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation.

c. Your pulse oximetry measurement must be stable. By "stable," we mean that the range of SOvalues (that is, lowest to highest) during any 15-second interval cannot exceed 2 percentage points. For example: (1) The measurement is stable if the lowest SOvalue during a 15-second interval is 87 percent and the highest value is 89 percent-a range of 2 percentage points. (2) The measurement is not stable if the lowest value is 86 percent and the highest value is 89 percent-a range of 3 percentage points.

d. If you have had more than one measurement (for example, at rest and after a 6MWT), we will use the measurement with the lowest SOvalue.

e. The pulse oximetry report must include the following information:

(i) Your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site.

(ii) A graphical printout showing your SOvalue and a concurrent, acceptable pulse wave. An acceptable pulse wave is one that shows the characteristic pulse wave; that is, sawtooth-shaped with a rapid systolic upstroke (nearly vertical) followed by a slower diastolic downstroke (angled downward).

f. We may need to purchase pulse oximetry at rest to determine whether your disorder meets 3.02C3 when we have evidence showing that you have a chronic respiratory disorder that could result in impaired gas exchange, unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis. We may purchase pulse oximetry during and after a 6MWT if your SOvalue at rest is greater than the value in Table V.

g. Before we purchase pulse oximetry, a medical consultant (see §§ 404.1616 and 416.1016 of this chapter), preferably one with experience in the care of people with respiratory disorders, must review your case record to determine if we need the test. The medical source we designate to administer the test is solely responsible for deciding whether it is safe for you to do the test and for how to administer it.

3. We have the following requirements for pulse oximetry under 3.04F:

a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. See 3.00E2a.

b. Your pulse oximetry measurement must be recorded while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation.

c. If you have had more than one measurement (for example, at rest and after a 6MWT), we will use the measurement with the lowest SOvalue.

d. The pulse oximetry report must include your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site. If you have CF, we do not require a graphical printout showing your SOvalue and a concurrent, acceptable pulse wave.
