
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart H - Information for Medical Providers
###### Exclusion of Providers
####### ยง 30.723 How will the administrative law judge conduct the hearing and issue the recommended decision?

(a) To the extent appropriate, proceedings before the administrative law judge shall be governed by 29 CFR part 18.

(b) The administrative law judge shall receive such relevant evidence as may be adduced at the hearing. Parties to the hearing are the provider and OWCP. Evidence shall be presented under oath, orally or in the form of written statements. The administrative law judge shall consider the notice and response, including all pertinent documents accompanying them, and may also consider any evidence which refers to the provider or to any claim with respect to which the provider has provided medical services, hospital services, or medical services and supplies, and such other evidence as the administrative law judge may determine to be necessary or useful in evaluating the matter.

(c) All hearings shall be recorded and the original of the complete transcript shall become a permanent part of the official record of the proceedings.

(d) In conjunction with the hearing, the administrative law judge may:

(1) Administer oaths; and

(2) Examine witnesses.

(e) At the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative law judge shall issue a written decision and cause it to be served on all parties to the proceeding, their representatives and OWCP.
