
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter C - Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart H - Information for Medical Providers
###### Exclusion of Providers
####### ยง 30.726 How can an excluded provider be reinstated?

(a) If a physician, hospital, or provider of medical services or supplies has been automatically excluded pursuant to ยง 30.716, the provider excluded will automatically be reinstated upon notice to OWCP that the conviction or exclusion which formed the basis of the automatic exclusion has been reversed or withdrawn. However, an automatic reinstatement shall not preclude OWCP from instituting exclusion proceedings based upon the underlying facts of the matter.

(b) A physician, hospital, or provider of medical services or supplies excluded from participation as a result of an order issued pursuant to this subpart may apply for reinstatement one year after the entry of the order of exclusion, unless the order expressly provides for a shorter period. An application for reinstatement shall be addressed to the Director for Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation, and shall contain a concise statement of the basis for the application. The application should be accompanied by supporting documents and affidavits.

(c) A request for reinstatement may be accompanied by a request for oral presentation. Oral presentations will be allowed only in unusual circumstances where it will materially aid the decision process.

(d) The Director for Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation shall order reinstatement only in instances where such reinstatement is clearly consistent with the goal of this subpart to protect the EEOICPA program against fraud and abuse. To satisfy this requirement the provider must provide reasonable assurances that the basis for the exclusion will not be repeated.
