
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter F - Compensation for Injury, Disability, Death, or Enemy Detention of Employees of Contractors with the United States
#### PART 61 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE WAR HAZARDS COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 61.3 Purpose and scope of this part.

(a) This part 61 sets forth the rules applicable to the filing, processing, and payment of claims for reimbursement and workers' compensation benefits under the provisions of the War Hazards Compensation Act, as amended. The provisions of this part are intended to afford guidance and assistance to any person, insurance carrier, self-insured employer, or compensation fund seeking benefits under the Act, as well as to personnel within the Department of Labor who administer the Act.

(b) Subpart A describes the statutory and administrative framework within which claims under the Act are processed, contains a statement of purpose and scope, and defines terms used in the administration of the Act.

(c) Subpart B describes the procedure by which an insurance carrier, self-insured employer, or compensation fund shall file a claim for reimbursement under section 104 of the Act, and describes the procedures for processing a claim for reimbursement and transferring a case for direct payment by the Department of Labor.

(d) Subpart C contains the rules governing the filing and processing of a claim for injury, disability or death benefits under section 101(a) of the Act.

(e) Subpart D contains provisions relating to claims for detention benefits under section 101(b) of the Act.

(f) Subpart E contains miscellaneous provisions concerning disclosure of program information, approval of claims for legal services, and assignment of claim.
