
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter F - Compensation for Injury, Disability, Death, or Enemy Detention of Employees of Contractors with the United States
#### PART 61 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE WAR HAZARDS COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Reimbursement of Carriers
###### ยง 61.102 Disposition of reimbursement requests.

(a) If the Office finds that insufficient or inadequate information has been submitted with the claim, the carrier shall be asked to submit further information. Failure to supply the requested information may result in disallowance of items not adequately supported as properly reimbursable.

(b) The Office shall not withhold payment of an approved part of a reimbursement request because of denial of another part of the reimbursement request.

(c) The Office shall regard awards, decisions and approved settlement agreements under the Defense Base Act or other applicable workers' compensation law, that have become final, as establishing prima facie, the right of the beneficiary to the payment awarded or provided for.

(d) The Office shall advise the carrier of the amount approved for reimbursement. If the reimbursement request has been denied in whole or in part, the Office shall provide the carrier an explanation of the action taken and the reasons for the action. A carrier within the United States may file objections with the Associate Director for Federal Employees' Compensation to the disallowance or reduction of a claim within 60 days of the Office's decision. A carrier outside the United States has six months within which to file objections with the Associate Director. The Office may consider objections filed beyond the time limits under unusual circumstances or when reasonable cause has been shown for the delay. A determination by the Office is final.

(e) In determining whether a claim is reimbursable, the Office shall hold the carrier to the same degree of care and prudence as any individual or corporation in the protection of its interests or the handling of its affairs would be expected to exercise under similar circumstances. A part or an item of a claim may be disapproved if the Office finds that the carrier-

(1) Failed to take advantage of any right accruing by assignment or subrogation (except against the United States, directly or indirectly, its employees, or members of its armed forces) due to the liability of a third party, unless the financial condition of the third party or the facts and circumstances surrounding the liability justify the failure;

(2) Failed to take reasonable measures to contest, reduce, or terminate its liability by appropriate available procedure under workers' compensation law or otherwise; or

(3) Failed to make reasonable and adequate investigation or injury as to the right of any person to any benefit or payment; or

(4) Failed to avoid augmentation of liability by reason of delay in recognizing or discharging a compensation claimant's right to benefits.
