
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter G - Compensation for Injury, Disability or Death of Civilian American Citizens Incurred While Detained by or in Hiding from the Imperial Japanese Government
#### PART 71 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 71.1 General administrative provisions.
###### et seq.

(a) Section 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948 (act of July 3, 1948; Pub. L. 896, 80th Cong., 62 Stat. 1240) makes provision for the payment of benefits with respect to the injury, disability or death resulting from injury of any civilian American citizen occurring while he was held by or in hiding from the Imperial Japanese Government to the same extent as if such civilian American citizen were an employee within the purview of the act of December 2, 1942 (Pub. L. 784, 77th Cong., 56 Stat. 1028, 42 U.S.C. 1701,). Under section 5(f) of the said War Claims Act of 1948, the rights of individuals to benefits payable under this subchapter shall accrue from and after December 7, 1941, subject, however, to all of the provisions of said act and the regulations in this subchapter.

(b) The regulations in part 61 of subchapter F of this chapter governing the administration of the benefits provided under titles I and II of the said act of December 2, 1942, as amended, shall, insofar as they are applicable and are not inconsistent with any of the provisions of this subchapter, govern the administration of the benefits payable under this subchapter. Provisions of such regulations relating to benefits for detention by the enemy, reimbursement to an employer or insurance carrier, and limitations on benefits in cases where workmen's compensation is payable are not applicable to the benefits provided in this subchapter nor are they within the purview of this subchapter. The provisions of sections 101(b), 104 and 105 of such act of December 2, 1942, and the various provisions of part 61 of this chapter relating to such provisions, accordingly, are not applicable to the payment of benefits under this subchapter.

(c) All rights or benefits under this subchapter which are determinable with reference to other provisions of law other than the said War Claims Act of 1948, shall be determined with reference to such provisions as they existed and were in force on January 3, 1948.

(d) As used in this subchapter:

(1) The term "Bureau" means the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, U.S. Department of Labor.

(2) The term "civilian American citizen" means any person who, being then a citizen of the United States, was captured by the Imperial Japanese Government on or after December 7, 1941, at Midway, Guam, Wake Island, the Philippine Islands, or any Territory or possession of the United States attacked or invaded by such government or while in transit to or from any such place, or who went into hiding at any such place in order to avoid capture or internment by such government; except (i) a person who at any time voluntarily gave aid to, collaborated with, or in any manner served such government, or (ii) a person who at the time of his capture or entrance into hiding was within the purview of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act of September 7, 1918, as amended and extended, or the said act of December 2, 1942, as amended, or the Missing Persons Act of March 7, 1942 (56 Stat. 143), as amended, or who was a regularly appointed, enrolled, enlisted, or inducted member of any military or naval force.

(3) The terms "held by the Imperial Japanese Government" or "captured by the Imperial Japanese Government" mean a holding of such person as a prisoner, internee, hostage or in any other capacity.

(4) The terms "compensation", "physician" and "medical, surgical and hospital services and supplies" shall be construed and applied as defined in the Federal Employees' Compensation Act of September 7, 1916, as amended.

(5) The term "benefit" is construed as synonymous with the term "compensation".

(6) The terms "disability", "wages", "child", "grandchild", "brother", "sister", "parent", "widow", "widower", "adoption" or "adopted" shall be construed and applied as defined in the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as amended.
