
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 200 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 200.1 Designation of central and field organization.
###### Introduction.

(a)(1) The Railroad Retirement Board (hereinafter referenced as the "Board") is an independent agency in the executive branch of the Federal Government and is administered by three members appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate. By law, one member is appointed upon recommendations made by railroad labor organizations, one upon recommendations of railroad employers, and the third member, the Chairman, is in effect independent of employees and employers and represents the public interest. The terms of office are five years and are arranged so as to expire in different calendar years.

(2) The primary function of the Board is the determination and payment of benefits under the retirement-survivor and unemployment-sickness programs. To this end, the Board must maintain lifetime earnings records for covered employees, a network of field offices to assist railroad personnel and their dependents in filing claims for benefits, and examiners to adjudicate the claims.

(3) The Board administers the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. The Railroad Retirement Tax Act, which imposes employment taxes to fund the railroad retirement system, is administered by the Internal Revenue Service of the U.S. Department of Treasury. The Board also participates in the administration of the Federal Medicare health insurance program.

(4) The headquarters of the Board is in Chicago, Illinois, at 844 North Rush Street. The Board maintains numerous district offices across the country in localities easily accessible to large numbers of railroad workers.
