
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 200 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 200.1 Designation of central and field organization.
###### Internal organization.

(b)(1) Reporting directly to the Board Members is the seven member Executive Committee. The Executive Committee is comprised of the General Counsel, the Director of Administration, the Director of Programs, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Information Officer, and the Director of Field Service. The Chief Actuary is a non-voting member. The Board members will designate a member of the Executive Committee as Senior Executive Officer.

(2) The Executive Committee is responsible for the day to day operations of the agency. The Senior Executive Officer is responsible for the direction and oversight of the Executive Committee. The General Counsel is responsible for advising the Board Members on major issues, interpreting the Acts and regulations administered by the Board, drafting and analyzing legislation, representing the Board in litigation and administrative forums and planning, directing, and coordinating the work of the Office of General Counsel, the Office of Secretary to the Board, the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals, and the Office of Legislative Affairs through their respective directors. The Director of Programs is responsible for managing, coordinating, and controlling the program operations of the agency which carry out provisions of the Railroad Retirement and Railroad Unemployment Insurance Acts. The Director of Administration is responsible for managing, coordinating and controlling certain administrative operations of the Board including the Division of Acquisition Management, the Bureau of Human Resources, the Office of Public Affairs, and the Division of Real Property Management. The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the financial management of the agency, and the Chief Information Officer is responsible for coordinating the agency's information resources management program. The Chief Actuary is responsible for the actuarial program of the Board, and for maintaining statistical and financial information. The Director of Field Services is responsible for the oversight of the agency's nationwide field offices.

(3) The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity is responsible for equal employment opportunity and affirmative employment programs.
