
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 200 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 200.2 The general course and method by which the Board's functions are channeled and determined.
###### Retirement and death benefits.

(a)(1) Retirement and death benefits must be applied for by filing application therefor. (For details as to application, see parts 210 and 237 of this chapter). The Bureau of Retirement Claims considers the application and the evidence and information submitted with it. Wage and service records maintained by the Board are checked and if necessary, further evidence is obtained from the employee, the employer, fellow employees, public records and any other person or source available. The Bureau makes initial decisions on the following matters:

(i) Applications for benefits;

(ii) Requests for the withdrawal of an application;

(iii) Requests for a change in an annuity beginning date;

(iv) The termination of an annuity;

(v) The modification of the amount of an annuity or lump sum;

(vi) Requests for the reinstatement of an annuity which had been terminated or modified;

(vii) The existence of an erroneous payment;

(viii) The eligibility of an individual for a supplemental annuity or the amount of such supplemental annuity.

(ix) Whether representative payments shall serve the interests of an individual by reason of his incapacity to manage his annuity payments; and

(x) Who shall be appointed or continued as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant.
