
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 200 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 200.4 Availability of information to public.

(a) The following materials (more particularly described in paragraph (d) of this section), with identifying details deleted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, are available for public inspection and copying:

(1) All final opinions (including concurring and dissenting opinions), and all orders made in the adjudication of cases, which have precedential effect;

(2) All statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Board, or by anyone under authority delegated by the Board, which have not been published in the

(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect any member of the public; and

(4) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format-

(i) That have been released to any person under paragraph (f) of this section; and

(ii) That because of the nature of their subject matter, the RRB determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records, or that have been requested 3 or more times.

(b) The identifying details to be deleted shall include, but not be limited to, names and identifying numbers of employees and other individuals as needed to comply with sections 12(d) and (n) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, section 7(b)(3) of the Railroad Retirement Act, and ยง 200.8 of this part, or to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.

(c) The RRB shall maintain a current index of the materials referred to in paragraph (a) of this section which will have been issued, adopted, or promulgated subsequent to July 4, 1967. This index shall be available for public inspection in an electronic format at RRB.gov. Copies of the index or any portion thereof may be obtained for a fee equivalent to the costs of reproduction by submitting a written request therefor. Such request should comply with the form for requests as described in paragraph (h) of this section to the General Counsel, Railroad Retirement Board, Room 836, 844 N. Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611-1275.

(d) The materials and indexes thereto shall be kept, and made available to the public upon request in an electronic format, in the bureaus and offices of the RRB that produce or utilize the materials. The following materials currently in use shall, as long as they are in effect as precedents and instructions, be made available in offices of the Board at 844 N. Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611-1275:

(1) In the Office of Programs/Operations: The Retirement Claims Manual, RCM Circulars, Special Services Manual, Policy Decisions, Procedural Memoranda containing information on the adjudication of claims not contained in the Retirement Claims Manual or in RCM Circulars, Field Operating Manual (Parts I and VI), FOM Circulars and Memoranda, the Occupational Disability Rating Schedule, Adjudication Instruction Manual, memorandum instructions on adjudication, and circular letters of instruction to railroad officials.

(2) In the Office of Programs/Policy and Systems: The Instructions to Employers, and Circular Letters to Employers.

(3) In the Office of General Counsel: Legal Opinions.

(4) In the Office of the Secretary to the Board: Decisions and rulings of the Board.

(5) Field offices shall also make available to the extent practicable such of these materials and indexes as are furnished them in the ordinary course of business.

(e) The copies of manuals and instructions made available for public copying and inspection shall not include:

(1) Confidential statements, standards, and instructions which do not affect the public, and

(2) Instructions not affecting the public (such as those relating solely to processing and procedure, to management, or to personnel) which it is feasible to separate from instructions that do affect the public.

(f) With the exception of records specifically excluded from disclosure by section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code, or other applicable statute, any records of or in the custody of this agency, other than those made available under paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section, shall, upon receipt of a written request reasonably describing them, promptly be made available to the person requesting them.

(g) The RRB may charge the person of persons making a request for records under paragraph (f) of this section a fee in an amount not to exceed the costs actually incurred in complying with the request and not to exceed the cost of processing a check for payment. Depending on the category into which the request falls, a fee may be assessed for the cost of search for documents, reviewing documents to determine whether any portion of any located documents is permitted to be withheld, and duplicating documents.
