
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart P - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Appendix 1 to Subpart P of Part 404 - Listing of Impairments
###### Evidence from medical sources.

2.We will consider all relevant medical evidence about your disorder from your physician, psychologist, and other medical sources, which include health care providers such as physician assistants, psychiatric nurse practitioners, licensed clinical social workers, and clinical mental health counselors. Evidence from your medical sources may include:

a. Your reported symptoms.

b. Your developmental, medical, psychiatric, and psychological history.

c. The results of physical or mental status examinations, structured clinical interviews, psychiatric or psychological rating scales, measures of adaptive functioning, or other clinical findings.

d. Developmental assessments, psychological testing, imaging results, or other laboratory findings.

e. Your diagnosis.

f. The type, dosage, and beneficial effects of medications you take.

g. The type, frequency, duration, and beneficial effects of therapy you receive.

h. Side effects of medication or other treatment that limit your ability to function.

i. Your clinical course, including changes in your medication, therapy, or other treatment, and the time required for therapeutic effectiveness.

j. Observations and descriptions of how you function during examinations or therapy.

k. Information about sensory, motor, or speech abnormalities, or about your cultural background (for example, language or customs) that may affect an evaluation of your mental disorder.

l. The expected duration of your symptoms and signs and their effects on your ability to function age-appropriately, both currently and in the future.
