
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 200 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 200.5 Protection of privacy of records maintained on individuals.
###### Disclosure of requested information to individuals.

(d)(1) Upon request, an individual shall be granted access to records pertaining to himself, other than medical records and records compiled in anticipation of a civil or criminal action or proceeding against him, which are indexed by individual identifier in a particular system of records. Requests for access must be in writing and should be addressed to the system manager of that record system as described in the annual notice published in theRequests under this subsection may be submitted either by mail or in person at the headquarters offices of the Railroad Retirement Board, 844 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611.

(2) The system manager shall, within ten working days following the date on which the request is received in his office, render a decision either granting or denying access and shall promptly notify the individual of his decision. If the request is denied, the notification shall inform the individual of his right to appeal the denial to the Board. An individual whose request for access under this subsection has been denied by the system manager may appeal that determination to the Board by filing a written appeal with the Secretary of the Board, Railroad Retirement Board, 844 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611 within twenty working days following receipt of the notice of denial. The Board shall render a decision on an appeal within thirty working days following the date on which the appeal is received in the office of the Secretary of the Board. The individual shall promptly be notified of the Board's decision.

(3) In cases where an individual has been granted access to his records, the system manager shall, prior to releasing such records, require the individual to produce identifying data such as his name, date of birth, and social security number.

(4) Disclosure to an individual of his record may be made by providing him, upon written request therefor, a copy of the record or portion thereof which he reasonably describes in his request.

(5) An individual, and if such individual so desires, one other person of his choosing, may review and have a copy made of his record (in a form comprehensible to him) during regular business hours at the location described as the repository of the record system containing such records in the annual notice published in theor at such other location convenient to the individual as specified by the system manager. If an individual is accompanied by another person, the system manager may require written authorizations for disclosure in the presence of the other person from the individual before any record or portion thereof is released.
