
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart Q - Determinations of Disability
##### Administrative Responsibilities and Requirements
###### ยง 404.1627 Audits.
####### State appeal of audit determinations.

(3)The appropriate Social Security Administration Regional Commissioner will notify the State of his or her determination on the audit or review report. If the State disagrees with that determination, the State may request reconsideration in writing within 60 days of the date of the Regional Commissioner's notice of the determination. The written request may be made, through the Associate Commissioner, Office of Disability, to the Commissioner of Social Security, room 900, Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. The Commissioner will make a determination and notify the State of the decision in writing no later than 90 days from the date the Social Security Administration receives the State's appeal and all supporting documents. The decision by the Commissioner on other than monetary disallowances will be final and binding upon the State. The decision by the Commissioner on monetary disallowances will be final and binding upon the State unless the State appeals the decision in writing to the Department of Health and Human Services, Departmental Appeals Board within 30 days after receiving the Commissioner's decision. See ยง 404.1683.
