
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 200 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 200.5 Protection of privacy of records maintained on individuals.
###### Request for amendment of a record.

(h)(1) An individual may request that a record pertaining to himself be amended by submitting a written request for such amendment to the system manager as described in the annual notice published in theRequests under this subsection may be made either by mail or in person at the headquarters offices of the Railroad Retirement Board, 844 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611. Such a request should include a statement of the information in the record which the individual believes is incorrect, a statement of any information not in the record which the individual believes would correct the record, if included, and a statement of any evidence which substantiates the individual's belief concerning the inaccuracy of the information presently contained in the record.

(2) Prior to rendering a determination in response to a request under this subsection, the system manager shall require that the individual provide identifying data such as his name, date of birth, and social security number.

(3) The system manager responsible for the system of records which contains the challenged record shall acknowledge receipt of the request in writing within ten working days following the date on which the request for amendment was received in his office and shall promptly render a decision either granting or denying the request.

(i) If the system manager grants the individual's request to amend his record, the system manager shall amend the record accordingly, advise the individual in writing that the requested amendment has been made and where an accounting of disclosures has been made, advise all previous recipients of the record to whom disclosure of such record was made and accounted for of the fact that the amendment was made and the substance of the amendment.

(ii) If the system manager denies the individual's request to amend his record, the system manager shall inform the individual that the request has been denied in whole or in part, the reason for the denial and the procedure regarding the individual's right to appeal the denial to the Board.
