
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 404 - FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )
#### Subpart V - Payments for Vocational Rehabilitation Services
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 404.2102 Purpose and scope.

This subpart describes the rules under which the Commissioner will pay the State VR agencies for VR services. Payment will be provided for VR services provided on behalf of disabled individuals under one or more of the provisions discussed in ยง 404.2101.

(a) Sections 404.2101 through 404.2103 describe the purpose of these regulations and the meaning of terms we frequently use in them.

(b) Section 404.2104 explains how State VR agencies may participate in the payment program under this subpart.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Sections 404.2108 through 404.2109 describe the requirements and conditions under which we will pay a State VR agency under this subpart.

(e) Sections 404.2110 through 404.2111 describe when an individual has completed a continuous period of SGA and when VR services will be considered to have contributed to that period.

(f) Section 404.2112 describes when payment will be made to a VR agency because an individual's disability benefits are continued based on his or her participation in a VR program which we have determined will increase the likelihood that he or she will not return to the disability rolls.

(g) Sections 404.2114 through 404.2115 describe services for which payment will be made.

(h) Section 404.2116 describes the filing deadlines for claims for payment for VR services.

(i) Section 404.2117 describes the payment conditions.

(j) [Reserved]

(k) Section 404.2119 describes how we will make payment to State VR agencies for rehabilitation services.

(l) Sections 404.2120 and 404.2121 describe the audits and the prepayment and postpayment validation reviews we will conduct.

(m) Section 404.2122 discusses confidentiality of information and records.

(n) Section 404.2123 provides for the applicability of other Federal laws and regulations.

(o) Section 404.2127 provides for the resolution of disputes.
