
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 408 - SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN WORLD WAR II VETERANS
#### Subpart A - Introduction, General Provision and Definitions
##### ยง 408.101 What is this part about?

The regulations in this part 408 (Regulation No. 8 of the Social Security Administration) relate to the provisions of title VIII of the Social Security Act as added by Pub. L. 106-169 enacted December 14, 1999. Title VIII (Special Benefits for Certain World War II Veterans) established a program for the payment of benefits to certain World War II veterans. The regulations in this part are divided into the following subparts according to subject content.

(a) Subpart A contains this introductory section, a statement of the general purpose underlying the payment of special benefits to World War II veterans, general provisions applicable to the program and its administration, and defines certain terms that we use throughout part 408.

(b) Subpart B contains the requirements for qualification and entitlement to monthly title VIII benefits.

(c) Subpart C contains the provisions relating to the filing and withdrawal of applications.

(d) Subpart D contains the provisions relating to the evidence required for establishing qualification for and entitlement to monthly title VIII benefits.

(e) Subpart E contains the provisions about the amount and payment of monthly benefits.

(f) Subpart F is reserved for future use.

(g) Subpart G contains the provisions on your requirement to report certain events to us.

(h) Subpart H contains the provisions on suspension and termination of title VIII entitlement.

(i) Subpart I contains the provisions on underpayments and overpayments.

(j) Subpart J contains the provisions on determinations and the administrative review process.

(k) Subpart K contains the provisions on claimant representation.

(l) Subpart L contains the provisions on Federal administration of State recognition payments.
