
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 408 - SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN WORLD WAR II VETERANS
#### Subpart C - Filing Applications
##### Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
###### ยง 408.351 What happens if we give you misinformation about filing an application?
####### Requirements concerning the misinformation.

(c)We apply the following requirements for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The misinformation must have been provided to you by one of our employees while he or she was acting in his or her official capacity as our employee. For purposes of this section, an employee includes an officer of SSA, an employee of a U.S. Foreign Service office, and an employee of the SSA Division of the Veterans Affairs Regional Office in the Philippines who is authorized to take and develop Social Security claims.

(2) Misinformation is information which we consider to be incorrect, misleading, or incomplete in view of the facts which you gave to the employee, or of which the employee was aware or should have been aware, regarding your particular circumstances. In addition, for us to find that the information you were given was incomplete, the employee must have failed to provide you with the appropriate, additional information which he or she would be required to provide in carrying out his or her official duties.

(3) The misinformation may have been provided to you orally or in writing.

(4) The misinformation must have been provided to you in response to a specific request by you to us for information about your qualification for SVB.
