
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 408 - SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN WORLD WAR II VETERANS
#### Subpart C - Filing Applications
##### Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
###### ยง 408.351 What happens if we give you misinformation about filing an application?
####### Claim for benefits based on misinformation.

(f)You may make a claim for SVB based on misinformation at any time. Your claim must contain information that will enable us to determine if we did provide misinformation to you about qualification for SVB which caused you not to file an application. Specifically, your claim must be in writing and it must explain what information was provided, how, when and where it was provided and by whom, and why the information caused you not to file an application. If you give us this information, we will make a determination on such a claim for benefits if all of the following conditions are also met.

(1) An application for SVB is filed with us by you or someone described in ยง 408.315 who may file. The application must be filed after the alleged misinformation was provided. This application may be-

(i) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision awarding SVB, but only if the claimant continues to be entitled to benefits based on that application;

(ii) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision denying the benefits, but only if such determination or decision is reopened; or

(iii) A new application on which we have not made a final determination or decision.

(2) The establishment of a deemed filing date of an application for benefits based on misinformation could result in entitlement to benefits or payment of additional benefits.

(3) We have not made a previous final determination or decision to which you were a party on a claim for benefits based on alleged misinformation involving the same facts and issues. This provision does not apply, however, if the final determination or decision may be reopened.
