
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Filing Notices and Claims; Submitting Evidence
###### Notices and Claims for Injury, Disease, and Death - Employee or Survivor's Actions
####### ยง 10.101 How and when is a notice of occupational disease filed?
######## www.dol.gov

(a) To claim benefits under the FECA, an employee who has a disease which he or she believes to be work-related must give notice of the condition in writing on Form CA-2, which may be obtained from the employer or from the Internet atunder forms. The employee must forward this notice to the employer. Another person, including the employer, may do so on the employee's behalf. The person submitting a notice shall include the Social Security Number (SSN) of the injured employee. All such notices should be submitted electronically wherever feasible to facilitate processing of such claims. All employers that currently do not have such capability should create such a method by December 31, 2012. The claimant may withdraw his or her claim (but not the notice of occupational disease) by so requesting in writing to OWCP at any time before OWCP determines eligibility for benefits.

(b) For occupational diseases sustained as a result of exposure to injurious work factors that occurs on or after September 7, 1974, a notice of occupational disease must be filed within three years of the onset of the condition. (The form contains the necessary words of claim.) The requirements for timely filing are described in ยง 10.100(b)(1) through (3).

(c) However, in cases of latent disability, the time for filing claim does not begin to run until the employee has a compensable disability and is aware, or reasonably should have been aware, of the causal relationship between the disability and the employment (see 5 U.S.C. 8122(b)).
