
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Tickets Under the Ticket to Work Program
##### § 411.140 When may I assign my ticket and how?
###### i.e.

(a) You may assign your ticket during a month in which you meet the requirements of § 411.125(a)(1) and (a)(2). You may assign your ticket during the 90-day period after your case is closed by a State VR agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option (see § 411.171(d)), without meeting the requirements of § 411.125(a)(2). You may assign your ticket to any EN which is serving under the program and is willing to provide you with services, or you may assign your ticket to a State VR agency acting as an EN if you are eligible to receive VR services under 34 CFR 361.42. You may not assign your ticket to more than one provider of services (, an EN or a State VR agency) at a time. You may not assign your ticket until after the State VR agency has closed your case if you are receiving VR services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment from a State VR agency which has elected the VR cost reimbursement option. You also may not assign your ticket to a State VR agency if that VR agency previously served you and elected the VR cost reimbursement option and closed your case.

(b)(1) In determining which EN you want to work with, you may discuss your rehabilitation and employment plans with as many ENs in your area as you wish. You also may discuss your rehabilitation and employment plans with the State VR agency.

(2) You can obtain a list of the approved ENs in your area from the program manager (PM) we have enlisted to assist in the administration of the Ticket to Work program. (See § 411.115(k) for a definition of the PM.)

(c) If you choose to work with an EN serving under the program, both you and the EN of your choice need to agree upon an individual work plan (IWP) (see § 411.115(i) for a definition of an IWP). If you choose to work with a State VR agency, you must develop an individualized plan for employment (IPE) and your State VR counselor must agree to the terms of the IPE, according to the requirements established in 34 CFR 361.45 and 361.46. (See § 411.115(j) for a definition of an IPE.) The IWP or IPE outlines the services necessary to assist you in achieving your chosen employment goal.

(d) In order for you to assign your ticket to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN, all of the following requirements must be met:

(1)(i) If you decide to work with an EN, you and a representative of the EN must agree to and sign an IWP; or

(ii) If you decide to work with a State VR agency, you and a representative of the State VR agency must agree to and sign both an IPE and a form that provides the information described in § 411.385(a)(1), (2) and (3).

(2) You must be eligible to assign your ticket under the rules in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) A representative of the EN must submit a copy of the signed IWP to the PM, or a representative of the State VR agency, acting as an EN, must submit the completed and signed form (as described in § 411.385(a) and (b)) to the PM.

(4) The PM must receive the copy of the IWP or receive the required form, as appropriate.

(e) If all of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section are met, we will consider your ticket assigned to the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. The effective date of the assignment of your ticket will be the first day on which the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section are met. See §§ 411.160 through 411.225 for an explanation of how assigning your ticket may affect medical reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules.
