
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Tickets Under the Ticket to Work Program
##### § 411.145 When can my ticket be taken out of assignment?

(a) If you assigned your ticket to an EN or a State VR agency acting as an EN, you may take your ticket out of assignment for any reason. You must notify the PM in writing that you wish to take your ticket out of assignment. The ticket will be no longer assigned to that EN or State VR agency acting as an EN, effective with the first day of the month following the month in which you notify the PM in writing that you wish to take your ticket out of assignment. You will be sent a notice informing you that your ticket is no longer assigned to that EN or State VR agency. You may reassign your ticket under the rules in § 411.150.

(b) If your EN goes out of business or is no longer approved to participate as an EN in the Ticket to Work program, the PM will take your ticket out of assignment with that EN. The ticket will no longer be assigned to that EN effective on the first day of the month following the month in which the EN goes out of business or is no longer approved to participate in the Ticket to Work program. You will be sent a notice informing you that your ticket is no longer assigned to that EN. In addition, if your EN is no longer willing or able to provide you with services, or if your State VR agency acting as an EN stops providing services to you because you have been determined to be ineligible for VR services under 34 CFR 361.42, the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN may ask the PM to take your ticket out of assignment with that EN or State VR agency. The ticket will no longer be assigned to that EN or State VR agency acting as an EN effective on the first day of the month following the month in which the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN makes a request to the PM that the ticket be taken out of assignment. You will be sent a notice informing you that your ticket is no longer assigned to that EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. You may reassign your ticket under the rules in § 411.150.

(c) For information about how taking a ticket out of assignment may affect medical reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules, see §§ 411.171(c) and 411.220.
