
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Tickets Under the Ticket to Work Program
##### § 411.150 Can I reassign my ticket?

(a) If you previously assigned your ticket and your ticket is no longer assigned (see § 411.145), you may reassign your ticket, unless you are receiving benefit payments under § 404.316(c), § 404.337(c), § 404.352(d) or § 404.1597a of this chapter, or you are receiving disability or blindness benefit payments under § 416.996 or § 416.1338 of this chapter (the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section notwithstanding). If you previously assigned your ticket to an EN, you may reassign your ticket to a different EN which is serving under the program and is willing to provide you with services, or you may reassign your ticket to a State VR agency acting as an EN if you are eligible to receive VR services under 34 CFR 361.42. If you previously assigned your ticket to a State VR agency acting as an EN, you may reassign your ticket to an EN which is serving under the program and is willing to provide you with services, or to another State VR agency acting as an EN if you are eligible to receive VR services under 34 CFR 361.42.

(b) In order for you to reassign your ticket to an EN or State VR agency, all of the following requirements must be met:

(1) Your ticket must be unassigned. If your ticket is assigned to an EN or a State VR agency, you must first tell the PM in writing that you want to take your ticket out of assignment (see § 411.145).

(2)(i) You and a representative of the new EN must agree to and sign a new IWP; or

(ii) If you wish to reassign your ticket to a State VR agency, you and a representative of the State VR agency must agree to and sign both an IPE and a form that provides the information described in § 411.385(a)(1), (2) and (3).

(3) You must meet the requirements of § 411.125(a)(1) and (2) on or after the day you and a representative of the new EN sign your IWP or you and a representative of the State VR agency sign your IPE and the required form. You may reassign your ticket within 90 days of the effective date your ticket was no longer assigned, without meeting the requirements of § 411.125(a)(2).

(4) A representative of the EN must submit a copy of the signed IWP to the PM or a representative of the State VR agency must submit the completed and signed form (as described in § 411.385(a) and (b)) to the PM.

(5) The PM must receive the copy of the IWP or received the required form, as appropriate.

(c) If all of the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are met, we will consider your ticket reassigned to the new EN or State VR agency. The effective date of the reassignment of your ticket will be the first day on which the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b)(1), (2) and (3) of this section are met. See §§ 411.160 through 411.225 for an explanation of how reassigning your ticket may affect medical reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules.
