
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket
##### Introduction
###### ยง 411.192 What choices do I have if I am unable to make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?

(a) If you report to the PM that you are temporarily or otherwise unable to make timely progress toward self-supporting employment during a progress certification period, the PM will give you the choice of placing your ticket in inactive status or, if applicable, taking your ticket out of assignment with the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. The choice of placing your ticket in inactive status applies whether your ticket is assigned or in VR cost reimbursement status (as described in ยง 411.166(j)).

(b) You may place your ticket in inactive status at any time by submitting a written request to the PM asking that your ticket be placed in inactive status. Your ticket will be placed in inactive status beginning with the first day of the month following the month in which you make your request. You are not considered to be using a ticket during months in which your ticket is in inactive status. Therefore, you will be subject to continuing disability reviews during those months. The months in which your ticket is in inactive status do not count toward the time limitations for making timely progress toward self-supporting employment.

(c) You may reactivate your ticket and return to in-use status if your ticket is still assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. You may also reactivate your ticket and return to in-use status if you have a ticket which would otherwise be available for assignment, you were receiving services under an IPE from a State VR agency which chose the VR cost reimbursement option, and your VR case has not been closed by the State VR agency. You may reactivate your ticket by submitting a written request to the PM. Your ticket will be reactivated beginning with the first day of the month following the month in which the PM receives your request. The progress certification period will resume counting from the last month of in-use status, and the next progress review will be due when the progress certification period has been completed. Earnings from work, obtaining a high school diploma or GED certificate, or completion of post-secondary education credits in a two- or four-year degree or certification program or course requirements in a vocational or technical training program, as described in ยง 411.180, during the period your ticket is in inactive status may be counted toward meeting the requirements for the next progress review.

(d) You may take your ticket out of assignment under ยง 411.145(a) at any time.
