
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket
##### Introduction
###### § 411.200 How will the PM conduct my progress reviews?

The PM will conduct a progress review at the end of each 12-month progress certification period.

(a) The PM will first review the available administrative records to determine if you completed the work requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period.

(b) If the administrative records do not indicate that you met the work requirements, the PM will contact either you or your EN or State VR agency to request additional information to determine if you completed the work requirements or have met the educational or training requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period.

(c) If the PM finds that you completed the work requirements or met the educational or training requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period, the PM will find that you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment. On the basis of that finding, we will consider you to be making timely progress toward self-supporting employment until your next scheduled progress review.

(d) If the PM finds that you did not complete the work requirements or meet the educational or training requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period, the PM will find that you are not making timely progress toward self-supporting employment. If the PM makes such a finding, the PM will send a written notice of the decision to you at your last known address. This notice will explain the reasons for the decision and inform you of the right to ask us to review the decision. This decision will be effective 30 days after the date on which the PM sends the notice of the decision to you, unless you request that we review the decision under § 411.205.
