
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket
##### Failure To Make Timely Progress
###### ยง 411.210 What happens if I do not make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
####### Re-entering in-use status.

(b)If you failed to meet the timely progress guidelines for a 12-month progress certification period and you believe that you have now met the applicable requirements for that progress certification period as described in ยง 411.180, you may request that you be reinstated to in-use status. In order to do so, you must submit a written request to the PM asking that you be reinstated to in-use status and you must provide evidence showing that you have met the applicable requirements for the progress certification period. The PM will decide whether you have satisfied the applicable requirements for the progress certification period and may be reinstated to in-use status. If the PM determines you have met the applicable requirements for the progress certification period, you will be reinstated to in-use status, provided that your ticket is assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN or in VR cost reimbursement status (as described in ยง 411.166(j)). See paragraph (c) of this section for when your reinstatement to in-use status will be effective. The month after you are reinstated to in-use status, your next 12-month progress certification period will begin.
