
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket
##### Failure To Make Timely Progress
###### ยง 411.210 What happens if I do not make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
####### Decisions on re-entering in-use status.

(c)(1) After you have submitted a written request to the PM asking that you be reinstated to in-use status, the PM will decide whether you have satisfied the applicable requirements in this section for re-entering in-use status. The PM will send a written notice of the decision to you at your last known address. The notice will explain the reasons for the decision and inform you of the right to ask us to review the decision. If the PM decides that you have satisfied the requirements for re-entering in-use status (including the requirement that your ticket be assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN or in VR cost reimbursement status), you will be reinstated to in-use status effective with the date on which the PM sends the notice of the decision to you. If the PM decides that you have not satisfied the requirements for re-entering in-use status, you may request that we review the decision under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) If you disagree with the PM's decision, you may request that we review the decision. You must make the request before the 30th day after the date on which the PM sends the notice of its decision to you. We will send you a written notice of our decision at your last known address. If we decide that you have satisfied the requirements for re-entering in-use status (including the requirement that your ticket be assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN or in VR cost reimbursement status), you will be reinstated to in-use status effective with the date on which we send the notice of the decision to you.
