
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter I - Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Federal Employees' Compensation Act
#### PART 10 - CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Filing Notices and Claims; Submitting Evidence
###### Notices and Claims for Injury, Disease, and Death - Employee or Survivor's Actions
####### ยง 10.102 How and when is a claim for wage loss compensation filed?

(a) Form CA-7 is used to claim compensation for periods of disability not covered by COP.

(1) An employee who is disabled with loss of pay for more than three calendar days due to an injury, or someone acting on his or her behalf, must file Form CA-7 before compensation can be paid.

(2) The employee shall complete the front of Form CA-7 and submit the form to the employer for completion and transmission to OWCP. The form should be completed as soon as possible, but no more than 14 calendar days after the date pay stops due to the injury or disease. All such notices should be submitted electronically wherever feasible to facilitate processing of such claims. All employers that currently do not have such capability should create such a method by December 31, 2012.

(3) The requirements for filing claims are further described in 5 U.S.C. 8121.

(b) Form CA-7 is also used to claim compensation for additional periods of disability following the initial injury.

(1) It is the employee's responsibility to submit Form CA-7. Without receipt of such claim, OWCP has no knowledge of continuing wage loss. Therefore, while disability continues, the employee should submit a claim on Form CA-7 each two weeks until otherwise instructed by OWCP.

(2) The employee shall complete the front of Form CA-7 and submit the form to the employer for completion and transmission to OWCP.

(3) The employee is responsible for submitting, or arranging for the submittal of, medical evidence to OWCP which establishes both that disability continues and that the disability is due to the work-related injury. Form CA-20a is submitted with Form CA-7 for this purpose.
