
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket
##### The Extension Period
###### § 411.220 What if my ticket is no longer assigned to an EN or State VR agency?

(a) If your ticket was once assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN and is no longer assigned, you are eligible for an extension period of up to 90 days to reassign your ticket. You are eligible for an extension period if your ticket is in use and no longer assigned because-

(1) You retrieved your ticket because you were dissatisfied with the services being provided (see § 411.145(a)) or because you relocated to an area not served by your previous EN or State VR agency; or

(2) Your EN went out of business, is no longer approved to participate as an EN in the Ticket to Work program, or is no longer willing or able to provide you with services as described in § 411.145(b), or your State VR agency stopped providing services to you as described in § 411.145(b).

(b) During the extension period, the ticket will still be considered to be in use. This means that you will not be subject to continuing disability reviews during this period.

(c) Time spent in the extension period will not count toward the time limitations for the timely progress guidelines.

(d) The extension period-

(1) Begins on the first day on which the ticket is no longer assigned (see § 411.145); and

(2) Ends 90 days after it begins or when you assign your ticket to a new EN or State VR agency, whichever is sooner.

(e) If you do not assign your ticket by the end of the extension period, the ticket will no longer be in use and you will once again be subject to continuing disability reviews.
