
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket
##### The Extension Period
###### § 411.226 How will SSA determine if I am meeting the timely progress guidelines if I assign my ticket prior to July 21, 2008?

(a) If you assigned your ticket to an EN or State VR agency prior to July 21, 2008, we will determine which 12-month progress certification period in § 411.180 you are in as of July 21, 2008 using the rules in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. We will not conduct a progress review at the end of that progress certification period. We will conduct a progress review at the end of your next progress certification period as explained in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) We will consider you to be in the first or a subsequent 12-month progress certification period under § 411.180 as of July 21, 2008. We will determine your applicable 12-month progress certification period and the number of months remaining in that period as of July 21, 2008 by counting all months during which your ticket was assigned and in use during the period-

(i) Beginning with the month following the month in which you first assigned your ticket under the rules in effect prior to July 21, 2008; and

(ii) Ending with the close of June 2008.

(2) We will use the timely progress guidelines in § 411.180(c) beginning with your next 12-month progress certification period. At the conclusion of that progress certification period, we will conduct a progress review to determine whether you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment using the guidelines in § 411.180(c) that apply in that period.

(b) Prior to the conclusion of your applicable 12-month progress certification period determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, we will send you a notice telling you that we will not conduct a progress review at the end of that progress certification period, and that we will conduct a progress review at the conclusion of your next 12-month progress certification period using the guidelines in § 411.180(c). We will tell you in the notice when this next 12-month progress certification period will begin and will describe the specific timely progress guidelines you must meet in this 12-month period.

(c) Subsequent 12-month progress certification periods will follow the rules in § 411.180.

(d) If, on June 30, 2008, your ticket is in use and assigned to a State VR agency which chose to be paid for services it provides to you under the cost reimbursement payment system, your period of using a ticket may continue under the rules in this subpart, including the rules in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section. While your ticket may still be considered in-use for the purpose of the suspension of continuing disability reviews, it will no longer be considered assigned to that State VR agency effective July 21, 2008. You may assign your ticket after the State VR agency has closed your case.
