
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart D - Use of One or More Program Managers To Assist in Administration of the Ticket to Work Program
##### ยง 411.245 What are a PM's responsibilities under the Ticket to Work program?
###### Facilitating access by beneficiaries to ENs.

(b)A PM must assist beneficiaries with tickets in accessing ENs.

(1) A PM must establish and maintain lists of the ENs available to beneficiaries with tickets in its service delivery area and make these lists generally available to the public.

(2) A PM must ensure that all information provided to beneficiaries with tickets about ENs is in accessible formats. For purposes of this section, accessible format means by media that is appropriate to a particular beneficiary's impairment(s).

(3) A PM must take necessary measures to ensure that sufficient ENs are available and that each beneficiary under the Ticket to Work program has reasonable access to employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, and other support services. The PM shall ensure that services such as the following are available in each service area, including rural areas: case management, work incentives planning, supported employment, career planning, career plan development, vocational assessment, job training, placement, follow-up services, and other services that we may require in an agreement with a PM.

(4) A PM must ensure that each beneficiary with a ticket is allowed to change ENs. When a change in the EN occurs, the PM must reassign the ticket based on the choice of the beneficiary.
