
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Employment Network Payment Systems
##### § 411.535 Under what circumstances will milestones be paid?

(a)(1)(i) Under the outcome-milestone payment system, an EN (or a State VR agency acting as an EN) can earn up to four Phase 1 milestone payments for serving beneficiaries whose gross earnings were less than the trial work level in each of the 18 months before the ticket was first assigned to an EN. All work and earnings counted toward reaching the four Phase 1 milestones must occur after the ticket is assigned and before the beginning of the beneficiary's outcome payment period (see § 411.500(f)) except as provided in § 411.536 (reconciliation payments).

(ii) Significant work activity prior to ticket assignment will limit the availability of Phase 1 milestone payments. The PM will make this assessment of work activity prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket, irrespective of the EN's chosen payment system, in order to determine how many milestone payments may be available for serving an individual in the Ticket to Work program. The first Phase 1 milestone payment is not available to be made to an EN if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in the calendar month prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program. The second Phase 1 milestone payment is not available if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in three of the six months prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program. The third Phase 1 milestone is not available if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in six of the twelve months prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program. The fourth Phase 1 milestone is not available if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in nine of the 18 months prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program.

(iii) If a beneficiary had a ticket that otherwise was available for assignment and chose to receive services under an IPE from a State VR agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option, payment of Phase 1 milestones to an EN or a different VR agency acting as an EN with respect to the same ticket is precluded if the State VR Agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option achieved an employment outcome (as described in 34 CFR 361.56) before case closure. An EN or a different VR agency acting as an EN can be paid Phase 2 milestones as described in paragraph (2) of this section with respect to this ticket.

(2) Under the outcome-milestone payment system, an EN can receive up to eleven Phase 2 milestone payments for work by a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), or up to eighteen Phase 2 milestone payments for work by a title XVI disability beneficiary. Earnings prior to the first assignment of the ticket in the Ticket to Work program are not taken into account when determining whether sufficient earnings exist for payment of Phase 2 milestones.

(3) If the beneficiary's outcome payment period begins before the beneficiary has achieved all Phase 1 and Phase 2 milestones, then we will pay the EN a final payment in accordance with § 411.536 (reconciliation payments) to account for unpaid milestone payments that had been available when the ticket was first assigned.

(b) An EN can be paid for a milestone only if the milestone is attained after a beneficiary has assigned his or her ticket to the EN. See § 411.575 for other milestone payment criteria.
