
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Employment Network Payment Systems
##### ยง 411.545 How are the outcome payments calculated under the outcome-milestone payment system?
###### Definitions and amounts:

Payment Calculation Base (PCB)-The average title II disability insurance benefit payable under section 223 of the Social Security Act for all beneficiaries for months during the preceding calendar year; and the average payment of supplemental security income benefits based on disability payable under title XVI (excluding State supplementation) for months during the preceding calendar year to all beneficiaries who have attained 18 years of age but have not attained 65 years of age. (2008 title II = $981.17, title XVI = $563.35).

Gross earnings requirements for Phase 1 are based on Trial Work level amounts.

For Phase 1 milestones only, the payments are calculated for both title XVI and title II beneficiaries using the higher title II payment calculation base. All other payments are based on a percentage of the Payment Calculation Base (PCB) for the respective program (title XVI or title II). See ยง 411.535 for a discussion of the circumstances under which we will pay milestones.

Phase 1 milestones = 120% of PCB.

Phase 2 milestones = 36% of PCB.

Outcome payments (under the outcome-milestone payment system) = 36% of PCB Earnings used to meet the first, second, or third Phase 1 milestone may be counted again when determining if a later milestone is met, provided the earlier earnings fall within the relevant time period for meeting the later Phase 1 milestone (see 411.525(a)(2) for the relevant time period for each milestone).
