
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 411 - THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Employment Network Payment Systems
##### ยง 411.575 How does the EN request payment for milestones or outcome payment months achieved by a beneficiary who assigned a ticket to the EN?
###### Outcome payments.

(b)(1) We will pay an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) an outcome payment for a month if-

(i)(A) Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the individual for that month due to work or earnings; or

(B) The requirements of ยง 411.525(a)(1)(ii) are met in a case where the beneficiary's entitlement to Social Security disability benefits has ended or eligibility for SSI benefits based on disability or blindness has terminated because of work activity or earnings; and

(ii) We have not already paid for 36 outcome payment months for a title II disability beneficiary (or a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), or paid for 60 outcome payment months for a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary, on the same ticket; and

(iii) The ticket has not terminated for any of the other reasons listed in ยง 411.155.

(2) The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must request payment for outcome payment months. In its initial request, the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must submit evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings (e.g., a statement of monthly earnings from the employer or the employer's designated payroll preparer, or an unaltered copy of the beneficiary's pay stub). After we have started paying outcome payments to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) based on evidence of the beneficiary's earnings, the EN (or State VR agency) must provide documentation of the beneficiary's continued work or earnings in such a manner or form and at such time or times as we may require. Exception: If the EN (or State VR agency) does not currently hold the ticket because it is assigned to another EN (or State VR agency), the EN (or State VR agency) must request payment, but is not required to submit evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings. However, if the payment request is for work the beneficiary attained in a month in which the EN no longer held the ticket, the payment request should include evidence that the services agreed to in the IWP/IPE were provided and those services contributed to the beneficiary's work.
