
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart B - Eligibility
##### Reasons Why You May Not Get SSI Benefits for Which You Are Otherwise Eligible
###### ยง 416.210 You do not apply for other benefits.
####### What happens if you do not apply for the other benefits.

(e)(1) If you do not apply for the other benefits within 30 days from the day that you receive our written notice, you are not eligible for SSI benefits. This means that if you are applying for SSI benefits, you cannot receive them. If you are receiving SSI benefits, your SSI benefits will stop. In addition, you will have to repay us for any SSI benefits that you received beginning with the month that you received our written notice. We assume (unless you prove otherwise) that you received our written notice 5 days after the date shown on the notice. We will also find that you are not eligible for SSI benefits if you file the required application for other benefits but do not take other necessary steps to obtain them.

(2) We will not find you ineligible for SSI benefits if you have a good reason for not applying for the other benefits within the 30-day period or taking other necessary steps to obtain them. In determining whether a good reason exists, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which may have caused you to fail to apply for other benefits. You may have a good reason if, for example-

(i) You are incapacitated (because of illness you were not able to apply); or

(ii) It would be useless for you to apply (you once applied for the benefits and the reasons why you were turned down have not changed).
