
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 210 - CREDITABLE RAILROAD SERVICE
##### ยง 210.7 Verification of service claimed.

Service claimed by an employee, which is not credited in the records of the Board, must be verified to the satisfaction of the Board before it may be credited. Verification of the Service claimed shall be as follows:

(a) Service claimed will be verified from the payroll or other detailed records of the employer.

(b) If the payroll or other detailed records are incomplete or missing, the service claimed and not established by these records will be verified from the personnel records of the employer.

(c) If the payroll, personnel and detailed records are incomplete or missing, the service claimed and not established by these records will be verified from any other books and records of the employer.

(d) If the employer's records do not establish the service claimed, the employee may submit affidavits and other evidence in support of the service claimed in either of the following instances:

(1) When there are no employer records available to show whether or not the service claimed was performed; or

(2) When there are employer records available which do not verify the service claimed and do not establish that the service claimed was not performed.

(e) When service is verified as to over-all dates, but is not supported in detail by employer records, and when there are no employer records showing in detail absences from service, a deduction shall be made to cover an average amount of the absences. The deduction shall be the absences shown by the applicant or 5 percent of the total period in question, whichever is greater. However, where the employee submits detailed records of the service claimed, properly identified and established as having been made at the time the employee performed the service for which detailed records of the employer are not available, full credit may be allowed for the service as may be verified from the records. Also, the employee may be permitted to establish in any other manner satisfactory to the Board the actual amount of his or her absences.

(f) For the purpose of verifying service before 1937, employers shall preserve through 1986, in accessible form, the original records of the service and compensation.

(g) For the purpose of verifying service after 1936, employers shall preserve in accessible form the original records of service and compensation for a period of five calendar years after the due date of the report.
