
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart I - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Substantial Gainful Activity
###### ยง 416.976 Impairment-related work expenses.
####### Nonrecurring expenses.

(2)Part or all of your expenses may not be recurring. For example, you may make a one-time payment in full for an item or service or make a downpayment. For the purpose of determining SGA, if you are working when you make the payment we will either deduct the entire amount in the month you pay it or allocate the amount over a 12 consecutive month period beginning with the month of payment, whichever you select. For the purpose of determining your SSI monthly payment amount, if you are working in the month you make the payment and the payment is made in a month earned income is received, we will either deduct the entire amount in that month, or we will allocate the amount over a 12 consecutive month period, beginning with that month, whichever you select. If you begin working and do not receive earned income in the month you make the payment, we will either deduct or begin allocating the payment amount in the first month you do receive earned income. If you make a payment for services or items after you stopped working, we will deduct the payment if it was made in the month you received earned income for work done in the month you received the services or used the item.
