
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart I - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability or Blindness
###### ยง 416.994 How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends, disabled adults.
####### Determining if medical improvement is related to ability to work.

(ii)If there is a decrease in medical severity as shown by the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings, we then must determine if it is related to your ability to do work. In paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, we explain the relationship between medical severity and limitation on functional capacity to do basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) and how changes in medical severity can affect your residual functional capacity. In determining whether medical improvement that has occurred is related to your ability to do work, we will assess your residual functional capacity (in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section) based on the current severity of the impairment(s) which was present at your last favorable medical decision.

(iii) Your new residual functional capacity will then be compared to your residual functional capacity at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision. Unless an increase in the current residual functional capacity is based on actual changes in the signs, symptoms, or laboratory findings any medical improvement that has occurred will not be considered to be related to your ability to do work.

(iv) Following are some additional factors and considerations which we will apply in making these determinations.
