
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart I - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability or Blindness
###### § 416.996 Continued disability or blindness benefits pending appeal of a medical cessation determination.
####### What you must do when your case is remanded to an administrative law judge.

(e)If we send back (remand) your case to an administrative law judge for further action under the rules provided in § 416.1477, and the administrative law judge's decision or dismissal order issued on your medical cessation appeal is vacated and is no longer in effect, you may be eligible for continued benefits pending a new decision by the administrative law judge or final action by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision.

(1) When your case is remanded to an administrative law judge, and you have elected to receive continued benefits, we will contact you to update our file to verify that you continue to meet the nonmedical requirements to receive benefits based on disability or blindness. To determine your correct payment amount, we will ask you to provide information about events such as changes in living arrangements, income, or resources since our last contact with you. If you have returned to work, we will request additional information about this work activity. Unless your earnings cause your income to be too much to receive benefits, your continued benefits will be paid while your appeal of the medical cessation of your disability/blindness is still pending, unless you have completed a trial work period and are engaging in substantial gainful activity. If you have completed a trial work period and previously received continued benefits you may still be eligible for special cash benefits under § 416.261 or special SSI eligibility status under § 416.264. (Effective July 1, 1987, a title XVI individual is no longer subject to a trial work period or cessation based on engaging in substantial gainful activity in order to be eligible for special benefits under § 416.261 or special status under § 416.264.) If we determine that you no longer meet a requirement to receive benefits, we will send you a written notice. The written notice will explain why your continued benefits will not be reinstated or will be for an amount less than you received before the prior administrative law judge's decision. The notice will also explain your right to reconsideration under § 416.1407, if you disagree. If you request a reconsideration, you will have the chance to explain why you believe your benefits should be reinstated or should be at a higher amount. If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is a favorable one, we will send you a written notice in which we will advise you of any right to reentitlement to benefits including special benefits under § 416.261 or special status under § 416.264. If you disagree with our determination on your appeal, you will have the right to appeal this decision.

(2) After we verify that you meet all the nonmedical requirements to receive benefits as stated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and if you previously elected to receive continued benefits pending the administrative law judge's decision, we will start continued benefits again. We will send you a notice telling you this. You do not have to complete a request to have these same benefits continued through the month before the month the new decision or order of dismissal is issued by the administrative law judge or through the month before the month the Appeals Council takes final action on the administrative law judge's recommended decision. These continued benefits will begin again with the first month of nonpayment based on the prior administrative law judge hearing decision or dismissal order. Our notice explaining continued benefits will also tell you to report to us any changes or events that affect your receipt of benefits.
