
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart I - Determining Disability and Blindness
##### Continuing or Stopping Disability or Blindness
###### § 416.999d How do we determine reinstated benefits?

(a) If you meet the requirements for reinstatement under § 416.999a(a), we will reinstate your benefits with the month after the month you filed your request for reinstatement. We cannot reinstate your eligibility for any month prior to February 2001.

(b) We will compute your reinstated benefit amount and determine benefits payable under the applicable paragraphs in §§ 416.401 through 416.435. We will reduce your reinstated benefit due in a month by a provisional benefit we already paid you for that month. If your provisional benefit paid for a month equals or exceeds the reinstated benefit due, we will treat the difference as an overpayment under § 416.536.

(c) Once you have been reinstated under § 416.999a you cannot be reinstated again until you have completed a 24-month initial reinstatement period. Your initial reinstatement period begins with the month your reinstated benefits begin under paragraph (a) of this section and ends when you have had 24 payable months of reinstated benefits. We consider you to have a payable month for the purposes of this paragraph when you are due a cash benefit of any amount for the month based upon our normal computation and payment rules in § 416.401 through § 416.435 or if you are considered to be receiving SSI benefits in a month under section 1619(b) of the Social Security Act. If your entire benefit payment due you for a month is adjusted for recovery of an overpayment under §§ 416.570 and 416.571 or if the amount of the provisional benefit already paid you for a month exceeds the amount of the reinstated benefit payable for that month so that no additional payment is due, we will consider the month a payable month.

(d) Your eligibility for reinstated benefits ends with the month preceding the earliest of the following months-

(1) The month an applicable terminating event in §§ 416.1331 through 416.1339 occurs;

(2) The third month following the month in which your disability ceases; or

(3) The month in which you die.

(e) Determinations we make under this section are initial determinations under § 416.1402 and are subject to review under subpart N of part 416.

(f) If we determine you are not eligible for reinstated benefits, we will consider your request filed under § 416.999a(a) your intent to claim benefits under § 416.340.
