
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Earned Income
###### § 416.1112 Earned income we do not count.
####### For earned income before January 1, 2002,

(ii)the amounts indicated in Table 1 of this section.

(4) Any portion of the $20 monthly exclusion in § 416.1124(c)(10) which has not been excluded from your unearned income in that same month;

(5) $65 of earned income in a month;

(6) Earned income you use to pay impairment-related work expenses described in § 416.976, if you are disabled (but not blind) and under age 65 or you are disabled (but not blind) and received SSI as a disabled individual (or received disability payments under a former State plan) for the month before you reached age 65.

(i) For periods prior to December 1, 1990, you must be able, however, to establish your initial eligibility for Federal benefits without the use of the impairment-related work expense exclusion. Once you establish your initial eligibility without the use of the impairment-related work expense exclusion, the exclusion applies for determining your eligibility for all subsequent consecutive months for which you are eligible for regular SSI benefits, federally administered optional State supplementary payments, special SSI cash benefits or special SSI eligibility status. If, in a subsequent month, you are not eligible for any of these benefits, you cannot reestablish your eligibility for Federal SSI benefits or federally administered optional State supplementary payments before December 1, 1990, using the impairment-related work expense exclusion.

(ii) For periods after November 30, 1990, you may also use the impairment-related work expense exclusion to establish initial eligibility and reeligibility following a month in which you were not eligible for regular SSI benefits, a federally administered optional State supplementary payment, special SSI cash benefits or special SSI eligibility status.

(7) One-half of remaining earned income in a month;

(8) Earned income used to meet any expenses reasonably attributable to the earning of the income if you are blind and under age 65 or if you receive SSI as a blind person for the month before you reach age 65. (We consider that you "reach" a certain age on the day before that particular birthday.);

(9) Any earned income you receive and use to fulfill an approved plan to achieve self-support if you are blind or disabled and under age 65 or blind or disabled and received SSI as a blind or disabled person for the month before you reached age 65. See §§ 416.1180 through 416.1182 for an explanation of plans to achieve self-support and for the rules on when this exclusion applies; and

(10) Payments made to participants in AmeriCorps State and National and AmeriCorps National Civilian Community Corps (NCCC). Payments to participants in AmeriCorps State and National and AmeriCorps NCCC may be made in cash or in-kind and may be made directly to the AmeriCorps participant or on the AmeriCorps participant's behalf. These payments include, but are not limited to: Living allowance payments, stipends, educational awards, and payments in lieu of educational awards.
