
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### In-Kind Support and Maintenance in Special Circumstances
###### § 416.1147 How we value in-kind support and maintenance for a couple.
####### One member of a couple lives in another person's household and receives food and shelter from that person and the other member of the couple is in a medical institution.

(b)(1) If one of you is living in the household of another person who provides you with both food and shelter, and the other is temporarily absent from the household as provided in § 416.1149(c)(1) (in a medical institution that receives substantial Medicaid payments for his or her care (§ 416.211(b))), and is ineligible in the month for either benefit payable under § 416.212, we compute your benefits as if you were separately eligible individuals (see § 416.414(b)(3)). This begins with the first full calendar month that one of you is in the medical institution. The one living in another person's household is eligible at an eligible individual's Federal benefit rate and one-third of that rate is counted as income not subject to any income exclusions. The one in the medical institution cannot receive more than the reduced benefit described in § 416.414(b)(3)(i).

(2) If the one member of the couple in the institution is eligible for one of the benefits payable under the § 416.212 provisions, we compute benefits as a couple at the rate specified under § 416.412. However, if that one member remains in the institution for a full month after expiration of the period benefits based on § 416.212 can be paid, benefits will be computed as if each person were separately eligible as described under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This begins with the first calendar month after expiration of the period benefits based on § 416.212 can be paid.
