
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### In-Kind Support and Maintenance in Special Circumstances
###### § 416.1147 How we value in-kind support and maintenance for a couple.
####### One member of a couple is subject to the presumed value rule and the other member is in a medical institution.

(d)(1) If one of you is subject to the presumed value rule and the other is temporarily absent from the household as provided in § 416.1149(c)(1) (in a medical institution that receives substantial Medicaid payments for his or her care (§ 416.211(b))), and is ineligible in that month for either benefit payable under § 416.212, we compute your benefits as if both members of the couple are separately eligible individuals (see § 416.414(b)(3)). This begins with the first full calendar month that one of you is in the medical institution (see § 416.211(b)). We value any food or shelter received by the one outside of the medical institution at one-third of an eligible individual's Federal benefit rate, plus the amount of the general income exclusion (§ 416.1124(c)(12)), unless you can show that their value is less as described in § 416.1140(a)(2). The member of the couple in the medical institution cannot receive more than the reduced benefit described in § 416.414(b)(3)(i).

(2) If one of you is subject to the presumed value rule and the other in the institution is eligible for one of the benefits payable under § 416.212, we compute the benefits as a couple at the rate specified under § 416.412. However, if the one in the institution remains in the institution after the period benefits based on § 416.212 can be paid, we will compute benefits as if each member of the couple were separately eligible as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
