
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Deeming of Income
###### ยง 416.1160 What is deeming of income?
####### Amount of benefit.,Exceptions:

(2)We consider the income of your ineligible spouse, ineligible parent, sponsor, or essential person in the second month prior to the current month to determine your benefit amount for the current month.

(i) We use the income from the first month you are initially eligible for payment of SSI benefits (see ยง 416.501) to determine your benefit amount for that month. In the following month (the second month you are eligible for payment), we use the same countable income that we used in the preceding month to determine your benefit amount.

(ii) To determine your benefit amount for the first month you again become eligible after you have been ineligible for at least a month, we use the same countable income that we use to determine your eligibility for that month. In the following month (the second month of reeligibility), we use the same countable income that we used in the preceding month to determine your benefit amount.

(iii) To determine the amount of your benefit in the current month, if there are certain changes in your situation which we list below, we use only your own countable income in a prior month, excluding any income deemed to you in that month from an ineligible spouse or parent. These changes are the death of your spouse or parent, your attainment of age 18, or your becoming subject to the $30 Federal benefit rate (ยง 416.211(b)).

(iv) To determine the amount of your benefit for the current month, we do not use income deemed from your essential person beginning with the month you can no longer qualify for the essential person increment (ยง 416.413). We use only your own countable income in a prior month to determine the amount of your benefit for the current month.
