
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Deeming of Income
###### § 416.1160 What is deeming of income?
####### Steps in deeming.

(c)Although the way we deem income varies depending upon whether you are an eligible individual, an eligible child, an alien with a sponsor, or an individual with an essential person, we follow several general steps to determine how much income to deem.

(1) We determine how much earned and unearned income your ineligible spouse, ineligible parent, sponsor, or essential person has, and we apply the appropriate exclusions. (See § 416.1161(a) for exclusions that apply to an ineligible parent or spouse, and § 416.1161(b) for those that apply to an essential person or to a sponsor.)

(2) Before we deem income to you from either your ineligible spouse or ineligible parent, we allocate an amount for each ineligible child in the household. (Allocations for ineligible children are explained in §§ 416.1163(b) and 416.1165(b).) We also allocate an amount for each eligible alien who is subject to deeming from your ineligible spouse or parent as a sponsor. (Allocations for eligible aliens are explained in § 416.1163(c).)

(3) We then follow the deeming rules which apply to you.

(i) For deeming income from your ineligible spouse, see § 416.1163.

(ii) For deeming income from your ineligible parent, see § 416.1165.

(iii) For deeming income from your ineligible spouse when you also have an eligible child, see § 416.1166.

(iv) For deeming income from your sponsor if you are an alien, see § 416.1166a.

(v) For deeming income from your essential person, see § 416.1168. The rules on when we stop deeming income from your essential person are in § 416.1169.

(vi) For provisions on change in status involving couples see § 416.1163(f) and for those involving parents see § 416.1165(g).
