
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Deeming of Income
###### ยง 416.1163 How we deem income to you from your ineligible spouse.
####### Determining your SSI benefit.

(e)(1) In determining your SSI benefit amount, we follow the procedure in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. However, we use your ineligible spouse's income in the second month prior to the current month. We vary this rule if any of the exceptions in ยง 416.1160(b)(2) applies (for example, if this is the first month you are eligible for payment of an SSI benefit or if you are again eligible after at least a month of being ineligible). In the first month of your eligibility for payment (or re-eligibility), we deem your ineligible spouse's income in the current month to determine both whether you are eligible for a benefit and the amount of your benefit. In the second month, we deem your ineligible spouse's income in that month to determine whether you are eligible for a benefit but we deem your ineligible spouse's income in the first month to determine the amount of your benefit.

(2) Your SSI benefit under the deeming rules cannot be higher than it would be if deeming did not apply. Therefore, your benefit is the lesser of the amount computed under the rules in paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the amount remaining after we subtract only your own countable income from an individual's Federal benefit rate.
