
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Appendix to Subpart K of Part 416 - List of Types of Income Excluded Under the SSI Program as Provided by Federal Laws Other Than the Social Security Act

Many Federal statutes in addition to the Social Security Act provide assistance or benefits for individuals and specify that the assistance or benefit will not be considered in deciding eligibility for SSI. We have listed these statutes in this appendix and have placed them in categories according to the kind of income or assistance they provide. The list gives the name of the Federal statute (where possible), the public law number, and the citation. Each item briefly describes what the statute provides that will not reduce or eliminate an SSI payment. More detailed information is available from a social security office or by reference to the statutes.

We update this list periodically. However, when new Federal statutes of this kind are enacted, or existing statutes are changed, we apply the law currently in effect, even before this appendix is updated.

(a) Value of food coupons under the Food Stamp Act of 1977, section 1301 of Pub. L. 95-113 (91 Stat. 968, 7 U.S.C. 2017(b)).

(b) Value of federally donated foods distributed under section 32 of Pub. L. 74-320 (49 Stat. 774) or section 416 of the Agriculture Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 1058, 7 CFR 250.6(e)(9)).

(c) Value of free or reduced price food for women and children under the-

(1) Child Nutrition Act of 1966, section 11(b) of Pub. L. 89-642 (80 Stat. 889, 42 U.S.C. 1780(b)) and section 17 of that Act as added by Pub. L. 92-433 (86 Stat. 729, 42 U.S.C. 1786); and

(2) National School Lunch Act, section 13(h)(3), as amended by section 3 of Pub. L. 90-302 (82 Stat. 119, 42 U.S.C. 1761(h)(3)).

(d) Services, except for wages paid to residents who assist in providing congregate services such as meals and personal care, provided a resident of an eligible housing project under a congregate services program under section 802 of the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, Public Law 101-625 (104 Stat. 4313, 42 U.S.C. 8011).

(a) Assistance to prevent fuel cut-offs and to promote energy efficiency under the Emergency Energy Conservation Services Program or the Energy Crisis Assistance Program as authorized by section 222(a)(5) of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended by section 5(d)(1) of Pub. L. No. 93-644 and section 5(a)(2) of Pub. L. 95-568 (88 Stat. 2294 as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2809(a)(5)).

(b) Home energy assistance payments or allowances under title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Public Law 97-35, as amended (42 U.S.C. 8624(f)).

(c) Value of any assistance paid with respect to a dwelling unit under-

(1) The United States Housing Act of 1937;

(2) The National Housing Act;

(3) Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965; or

(4) Title V of the Housing Act of 1949.

(d) Payments for relocating, made to persons displaced by Federal or federally assisted programs which acquire real property, under section 216 of Pub. L. 91-646, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1902, 42 U.S.C. 4636).

(a) Grants or loans to undergraduate students made or insured under programs administered by the Secretary of Education under section 507 of the Higher Education Amendments of 1968, Pub. L. 90-575 (82 Stat. 1063).

(b) Any wages, allowances, or reimbursement for transportation and attendant care costs, unless excepted on a case-by-case basis, when received by an eligible handicapped individual employed in a project under title VI of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as added by title II of Pub. L. 95-602 (92 Stat. 2992, 29 U.S.C. 795(b)(c)).

(c) Student financial assistance for attendance costs received from a program funded in whole or in part under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, or under Bureau of Indian Affairs student assistance programs if it is made available for tuition and fees normally assessed a student carrying the same academic workload, as determined by the institution, including costs for rental or purchase of any equipment, materials, or supplies required of all students in the same course of study and an allowance for books, supplies, transportation, and miscellaneous personal expenses for a student attending the institution on at least a half-time basis, as determined by the institution, under section 14(27) of Public Law 100-50, the Higher Education Technical Amendments Act of 1987 (20 U.S.C. 1087uu).
