
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Appendix to Subpart K of Part 416 - List of Types of Income Excluded Under the SSI Program as Provided by Federal Laws Other Than the Social Security Act
###### Types of Payments Excluded Without Regard to Specific Tribes or Groups-

(a)

(1) Indian judgment funds that are held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior or distributed per capita pursuant to a plan prepared by the Secretary of the Interior and not disapproved by a joint resolution of the Congress under Public Law 93-134 as amended by section 4 of Public Law 97-458 (96 Stat. 2513, 25 U.S.C. 1408). Indian judgment funds include interest and investment income accrued while such funds are so held in trust. This exclusion extends to initial purchases made with Indian judgment funds. This exclusion does not apply to sales or conversions of initial purchases or to subsequent purchases.

(2) All funds held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior for an Indian tribe and distributed per capita to a member of that tribe are excluded from income under Public Law 98-64 (97 Stat. 365, 25 U.S.C. 117b). Funds held by Alaska Native Regional and Village Corporations (ANRVC) are not held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior and therefore ANRVC dividend distributions are not excluded from countable income under this exclusion. For ANRVC dividend distributions, see paragraph IV.(a)(3) of this appendix.

(3) Distributions received by an individual Alaska Native or descendant of an Alaska Native from an Alaska Native Regional and Village Corporation pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as follows: cash, including cash dividends on stock received from a Native Corporation, to the extent that it does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual each year; stock, including stock issued or distributed by a Native Corporation as a dividend or distribution on stock; a partnership interest; land or an interest in land, including land or an interest in land received from a Native Corporation as a dividend or distribution on stock; and an interest in a settlement trust. This exclusion is pursuant to section 15 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Amendments of 1987, Public Law 100-241 (101 Stat. 1812, 43 U.S.C. 1626(c)), effective February 3, 1988.

(4) Up to $2,000 per year received by Indians that is derived from individual interests in trust or restricted lands under section 13736 of Public Law 103-66 (107 Stat. 663, 25 U.S.C. 1408, as amended).
