
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Appendix to Subpart K of Part 416 - List of Types of Income Excluded Under the SSI Program as Provided by Federal Laws Other Than the Social Security Act
###### Payments to Members of Specific Indian Tribes and Groups

(b)-

(1) Per capita payments to members of the Red Lake Band of Chippewa Indians from the proceeds of the sale of timber and lumber on the Red Lake Reservation under section 3 of Public Law 85-794 (72 Stat. 958).

(2) Per capita distribution payments by the Blackfeet and Gros Ventre tribal governments to members which resulted from judgment funds to the tribes under section 4 of Public Law 92-254 (86 Stat. 65) and under section 6 of Public Law 97-408 (96 Stat. 2036).

(3) Settlement fund payments and the availability of such funds to members of the Hopi and Navajo Tribes under section 22 of Public Law 93-531 (88 Stat. 1722) as amended by Public Law 96-305 (94 Stat. 929).

(4) Judgment funds distributed per capita to, or held in trust for, members of the Sac and Fox Indian Nation, and the availability of such funds under section 6 of Public Law 94-189 (89 Stat. 1094).

(5) Judgment funds distributed per capita to, or held in trust for, members of the Grand River Band of Ottawa Indians, and the availability of such funds under section 6 of Public Law 94-540 (90 Stat. 2504).

(6) Any judgment funds distributed per capita to members of the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation or the Apache Tribe of the Mescalero Reservation under section 2 of Public Law 95-433 (92 Stat. 1047, 25 U.S.C. 609c-1).

(7) Any judgment funds distributed per capita or made available for programs for members of the Delaware Tribe of Indians and the absentee Delaware Tribe of Western Oklahoma under section 8 of Public Law 96-318 (94 Stat. 971).

(8) All funds and distributions to members of the Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, and the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians under the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act, and the availability of such funds under section 9 of Public Law 96-420 (94 Stat. 1795, 25 U.S.C. 1728(c)).

(9) Any distributions of judgment funds to members of the San Carlos Apache Indian Tribe of Arizona under section 7 of Public Law 93-134 (87 Stat. 468) and Public Law 97-95 (95 Stat. 1206).

(10) Any distribution of judgment funds to members of the Wyandot Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma under section 6 of Public Law 97-371 (96 Stat. 1814).

(11) Distributions of judgment funds to members of the Shawnee Tribe of Indians (Absentee Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma, the Eastern Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma and the Cherokee Band of Shawnee descendants) under section 7 of Public Law 97-372 (96 Stat. 1816).

(12) Judgment funds distributed per capita or made available for programs for members of the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma and the Miami Indians of Indiana under section 7 of Public Law 97-376 (96 Stat. 1829).

(13) Distributions of judgment funds to members of the Clallam Tribe of Indians of the State of Washington (Port Gamble Indian Community, Lower Elwha Tribal Community and the Jamestown Band of Clallam Indians) under section 6 of Public Law 97-402 (96 Stat. 2021).

(14) Judgment funds distributed per capita or made available for programs for members of the Pembina Chippewa Indians (Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians, Chippewa Cree Tribe of Rocky Boy's Reservation, Minnesota Chippewa Tribe, Little Shell Band of the Chippewa Indians of Montana, and the nonmember Pembina descendants) under section 9 of Public Law 97-403 (96 Stat. 2025).

(15) Per capita distributions of judgment funds to members of the Assiniboine Tribe of Fort Belknap Indian Community and the Papago Tribe of Arizona under sections 6 and 8(d) of Public Law 97-408 (96 Stat. 2036, 2038).

(16) Up to $2,000 of per capita distributions of judgment funds to members of the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation under section 4 of Public Law 97-436 (96 Stat. 2284).

(17) Judgment funds distributed to the Red Lake Band of Chippewa Indians under section 3 of Public Law 98-123 (97 Stat. 816).

(18) Funds distributed per capita or family interest payments for members of the Assiniboine Tribe of Fort Belknap Indian Community of Montana and the Assiniboine Tribe of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation of Montana under section 5 of Public Law 98-124 (97 Stat. 818).

(19) Distributions of judgment funds and income derived therefrom to members of the Shoalwater Bay Indian Tribe under section 5 of Public Law 98-432 (98 Stat. 1672).

(20) All distributions to heirs of certain deceased Indians under section 8 of the Old Age Assistance Claims Settlement Act, Public Law 98-500 (98 Stat. 2319).

(21) Judgment funds distributed per capita or made available for any tribal program for members of the Wyandotte Tribe of Oklahoma and the Absentee Wyandottes under section 106 of Public Law 98-602 (98 Stat. 3151).

(22) Per capita and dividend payment distributions of judgment funds to members of the Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska, the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe, the Prairie Island Sioux, Lower Sioux, and Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Communities of Minnesota under section 8 of Public Law 99-130 (99 Stat. 552) and section 7 of Public Law 93-134 (87 Stat. 468), as amended by Public Law 97-458 (96 Stat. 2513; 25 U.S.C. 1407).

(23) Funds distributed per capita or held in trust for members of the Chippewas of Lake Superior and the Chippewas of the Mississippi under section 6 of Public Law 99-146 (99 Stat. 782).

(24) Distributions of claims settlement funds to members of the White Earth Band of Chippewa Indians as allottees, or their heirs, under section 16 of Public Law 99-264 (100 Stat. 70).

(25) Payments or distributions of judgment funds, and the availability of any amount for such payments or distributions, to members of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan under section 6 of Public Law 99-346 (100 Stat. 677).

(26) Judgment funds distributed per capita or held in trust for members of the Chippewas of Lake Superior and the Chippewas of the Mississippi under section 4 of Public Law 99-377 (100 Stat. 805).

(27) Judgment funds distributed to members of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians under section 4 of Public Law 100-139 (101 Stat. 822).

(28) Per capita payments of claims settlement funds to members of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana under section 2 of Public Law 100-411 (102 Stat. 1097) and section 7 of Public Law 93-134 (87 Stat. 468), as amended by Public Law 97-458 (96 Stat. 2513; 25 U.S.C. 1407).

(29) Funds distributed per capita for members of the Hoopa Valley Indian Tribe and the Yurok Indian Tribe under sections 4, 6 and 7 of Public Law 100-580 (102 Stat. 2929, 2930, 2931) and section 3 of Public Law 98-64 (97 Stat. 365; 25 U.S.C. 117b).

(30) Judgment funds held in trust by the United States, including interest and investment income accruing on such funds, and judgment funds made available for programs or distributed to members of the Wisconsin Band of Potawatomi (Hannahville Indian Community and Forest County Potawatomi) under section 503 of Public Law 100-581 (102 Stat. 2945).

(31) All funds, assets, and income from the trust fund transferred to the members of the Puyallup Tribe under section 10 of the Puyallup Tribe of Indians Settlement Act of 1989, Public Law 101-41 (103 Stat. 88, 25 U.S.C. 1773h(c)).

(32) Judgment funds distributed per capita, or held in trust, or made available for programs, for members of the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida and the independent Seminole Indians of Florida under section 8 of Public Law 101-277 (104 Stat. 145).

(33) Payments, funds, distributions, or income derived from them to members of the Seneca Nation of New York under section 8(b) of the Seneca Nation Settlement Act of 1990, Public Law 101-503 (104 Stat. 1297, 25 U.S.C. 1774f).

(34) Per capita distributions of settlement funds under section 102 of the Fallon Paiute Shoshone Indian Tribes Water Rights Settlement Act of 1990, Public Law 101-618 (104 Stat. 3289) and section 7 of Public Law 93-134 (87 Stat. 468), as amended by Public Law 97-458 (96 Stat. 2513; 25 U.S.C. 1407).

(35) Settlement funds, assets, income, payments, or distributions from Trust Funds to members of the Catawba Indian Tribe of South Carolina under section 11(m) of Public Law 103-116 (107 Stat. 1133).

(36) Settlement funds held in trust (including interest and investment income accruing on such funds) for, and payments made to, members of the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation under section 7(b) of Public Law 103-436 (108 Stat. 4579).

(37) Judgment funds distributed under section 111 of the Michigan Indian Land Claims Settlement Act, (Pub. L. 105-143, 111 Stat. 2665).

(38) Judgment funds distributed under section 4 of the Cowlitz Indian Tribe Distribution of Judgment Funds Act, (Pub. L. 108-222, 118 Stat. 624).
