
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart K - Income
##### Appendix to Subpart K of Part 416 - List of Types of Income Excluded Under the SSI Program as Provided by Federal Laws Other Than the Social Security Act
###### et seq.

(a) Compensation provided to volunteers by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), unless determined by the CNCS to constitute the minimum wage in effect under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201), or applicable State law, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5044(f)(1).

(b) Any assistance to an individual (other than wages or salaries) under the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended by section 102(h)(1) of Pub. L. 95-478 (92 Stat. 1515, 42 U.S.C. 3020a).

(c) Amounts paid as restitution to certain individuals of Japanese ancestry and Aleuts for losses suffered as a result of evacuation, relocation, and internment during World War II, under the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 and the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Act, sections 105(f) and 206(d) of Public Law 100-383 (50 U.S.C. App. 1989 b and c).

(d) Payments made on or after January 1, 1989, from the Agent Orange Settlement Fund or any other fund established pursuant to the settlement in the In Re Agent Orange product liability litigation, M.D.L. No. 381 (E.D.N.Y.) under Public Law 101-201 (103 Stat. 1795) and section 10405 of Public Law 101-239 (103 Stat. 2489).

(e) Payments made under section 6 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, Public Law 101-426 (104 Stat. 925, 42 U.S.C. 2210).

(f) The value of any child care provided or arranged (or any payment for such care or reimbursement for costs incurred for such care) under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, as amended by section 8(b) of Public Law 102-586 (106 Stat. 5035).

(g) Payments made to individuals because of their status as victims of Nazi persecution excluded pursuant to section 1(a) of the Victims of Nazi Persecution Act of 1994, Public Law 103-286 (108 Stat. 1450).

(h) Any matching funds from a demonstration project authorized by the Community Opportunities, Accountability, and Training and Educational Services Act of 1998 (Pub. L. 105-285) and any interest earned on these matching funds in an Individual Development Account, pursuant to section 415 of Pub. L. 105-285 (112 Stat. 2771).

(i) Any earnings, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families matching funds, and interest in an Individual Development Account, pursuant to section 103 of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-193, 42 U.S.C. 604(h)(4)).

(j) Payments made to individuals who were captured and interned by the Democratic Republic of Vietnam as a result of participation in certain military operations, pursuant to section 606 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 105-78).

(k) Payments made to certain Vietnam veterans' children with spina bifida, pursuant to section 421 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act of 1997 (Pub. L. 104-204, 38 U.S.C. 1805(a)).

(l) Payments made to the children of women Vietnam veterans who suffer from certain birth defects, pursuant to section 401 of the Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 (Pub. L. 106-419 (38 U.S.C. 1833(c)).

(m) Payments of the refundable child tax credit made under section 24 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, pursuant to section 203 of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, Public Law 107-16 (115 Stat. 49, 26 U.S.C. 24 note).

(n) Assistance provided for flood mitigation activities as provided under section 1324 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, pursuant to section 1 of Public Law 109-64 (119 Stat. 1997, 42 U.S.C. 4031).

(o) Payments made to individuals under the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000, pursuant to section 1 [Div. C, Title XXXVI section 3646] of Public Law 106-398 (114 Stat. 1654A-510, 42 U.S.C. 7385e).
