
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart L - Resources and Exclusions
##### § 416.1202 Deeming of resources.
###### Child,General.

(b)-(1)In the case of a child (as defined in § 416.1856) who is under age 18, we will deem to that child any resources, not otherwise excluded under this subpart, of his or her ineligible parent who is living in the same household with him or her (as described in § 416.1851). We also will deem to the child the resources of his or her ineligible stepparent. As used in this section, the term "parent" means the natural or adoptive parent of a child, and the term "stepparent" means the spouse (as defined in § 416.1806) of such natural or adoptive parent who is living in the same household with the child and parent. We will deem to a child the resources of his or her parent and stepparent whether or not those resources are available to him or her. We will deem to a child the resources of his or her parent and stepparent only to the extent that those resources exceed the resource limits described in § 416.1205. (If the child is living with only one parent, we apply the resource limit for an individual. If the child is living with both parents, or the child is living with one parent and a stepparent, we apply the resource limit for an individual and spouse.) We will not deem to a child the resources of his or her parent or stepparent if the child is excepted from deeming under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In addition to the exclusions listed in § 416.1210, we also exclude the following items:
