
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart L - Resources and Exclusions
##### ยง 416.1236 Exclusions from resources; provided by other statutes.

(a) For the purpose of ยง 416.1210(j), payments or benefits provided under a Federal statute other than title XVI of the Social Security Act where exclusion from resources is required by such statute include:

(1) Payments made under title II of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1902, 42 U.S.C. 4636).

(2) Payments made to Native Americans as listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of section IV of the appendix to subpart K of part 416, as provided by Federal statutes other than the Social Security Act.

(3) Indian judgment funds held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior or distributed per capita pursuant to a plan prepared by the Secretary of the Interior and not disapproved by a joint resolution of the Congress under Public Law 93-134, as amended by Public Law 97-458 (25 U.S.C. 1407). Indian judgment funds include interest and investment income accrued while the funds are so held in trust. This exclusion extends to initial purchases made with Indian judgment funds. This exclusion will not apply to proceeds from sales or conversions of initial purchases or to subsequent purchases.

(4) The value of the coupon allotment in excess of the amount paid for the coupons under the Food Stamp Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 705, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 2016(c)).
