
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart L - Resources and Exclusions
##### ยง 416.1236 Exclusions from resources; provided by other statutes.
###### et seq.

(9) Compensation provided to volunteers by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), unless determined by the CNCS to constitute the minimum wage in effect under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201), or applicable State law, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5044(f)(1).

(10) Distributions received by an individual Alaska Native or descendant of an Alaska Native from an Alaska Native Regional and Village Corporation pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as follows: cash, including cash dividends on stock received from a Native Corporation, is disregarded to the extent that it does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual each year (the $2,000 limit is applied separately each year, and cash distributions up to $2,000 which an individual received in a prior year and retained into subsequent years will not be counted as resources in those years); stock, including stock issued or distributed by a Native Corporation as a dividend or distribution on stock; a partnership interest; land or an interest in land, including land or an interest in land received from a Native Corporation as a dividend or distribution on stock; and an interest in a settlement trust. This exclusion is pursuant to the exclusion under section 15 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Amendments of 1987, Public Law 100-241 (43 U.S.C. 1626(c)), effective February 3, 1988.

(11) Value of Federally donated foods distributed pursuant to section 32 of Pub. L. 74-320 or section 416 of the Agriculture Act of 1949 (7 CFR 250.6(e)(9) as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 301).

(12) All funds held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior for an Indian tribe and distributed per capita to a member of that tribe under Public Law 98-64. Funds held by Alaska Native Regional and Village Corporations (ANRVC) are not held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior and therefore ANRVC dividend distributions are not excluded from resources under this exclusion. For the treatment of ANRVC dividend distributions, see paragraph (a)(10) of this section.

(13) Home energy assistance payments or allowances under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, as added by title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8624(f)).

(14) Student financial assistance for attendance costs received from a program funded in whole or in part under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, or under Bureau of Indian Affairs student assistance programs if it is made available for tuition and fees normally assessed a student carrying the same academic workload, as determined by the institution, including costs for rental or purchase of any equipment, materials, or supplies required of all students in the same course of study; and an allowance for books, supplies, transportation, and miscellaneous personal expenses for a student attending the institution on at least a half-time basis, as determined by the institution, under section 14(27) of Public Law 100-50, the Higher Education Technical Amendments Act of 1987 (20 U.S.C. 1087uu), or under Bureau of Indian Affairs student assistance programs.

(15) Amounts paid as restitution to certain individuals of Japanese ancestry and Aleuts under the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 and the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Act, sections 105(f) and 206(d) of Public Law 100-383 (50 U.S.C. app. 1989 b and c).

(16) Payments made on or after January 1, 1989, from the Agent Orange Settlement Fund or any other fund established pursuant to the settlement in the In Re Agent Orange product liability litigation, M.D.L. No. 381 (E.D.N.Y.) under Public Law 101-201 (103 Stat. 1795) and section 10405 of Public Law 101-239 (103 Stat. 2489).

(17) Payments made under section 6 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, Public Law 101-426 (104 Stat. 925, 42 U.S.C. 2210).

(18) Payments made to individuals because of their status as victims of Nazi persecution excluded pursuant to section 1(a) of the Victims of Nazi Persecution Act of 1994, Public Law 103-286 (108 Stat. 1450).

(19) Any matching funds and interest earned on matching funds from a demonstration project authorized by Public Law 105-285 that are retained in an Individual Development Account, pursuant to section 415 of Public Law 105-285 (112 Stat. 2771).

(20) Any earnings, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families matching funds, and accrued interest retained in an Individual Development Account, pursuant to section 103 of Public Law 104-193 (42 U.S.C. 604(h)(4)).

(21) Payments made to individuals who were captured and interned by the Democratic Republic of Vietnam as a result of participation in certain military operations, pursuant to section 606 of Public Law 105-78 and section 657 of Public Law 104-201 (110 Stat. 2584).

(22) Payments made to certain Vietnam veterans' children with spina bifida, pursuant to section 421 of Public Law 104-204 (38 U.S.C. 1805(d)).

(23) Payments made to the children of women Vietnam veterans who suffer from certain birth defects, pursuant to section 401 of Public Law 106-419, (38 U.S.C. 1833(c)).

(24) Assistance provided for flood mitigation activities under section 1324 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, pursuant to section 1 of Public Law 109-64 (119 Stat. 1997, 42 U.S.C. 4031).

(25) Payments made to individuals under the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000, pursuant to section 1, app. [Div. C. Title XXXVI section 3646] of Public Law 106-398 (114 Stat. 1654A-510, 42 U.S.C. 7385e).

(b) In order for payments and benefits listed in paragraph (a) to be excluded from resources, such funds must be segregated and not commingled with other countable resources so that the excludable funds are identifiable.
