
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart L - Resources and Exclusions
##### § 416.1242 Time limits for disposing of resources.

(a) In order for payment conditioned on the disposition of nonliquid resources to be made, the individual must agree in writing to dispose of real property within 9 months and personal property within 3 months. The time period for disposal of property begins on the date we accept the individual's signed written agreement to dispose of the property. If we receive a signed agreement on or after the date we have determined that the individual meets the eligibility requirements described in § 416.202 of this part, with the exception of the resource requirements described in this subpart, our acceptance of the written agreement will occur on the date the individual receives our written notice that the agreement is in effect. If we receive a signed agreement prior to the date we determine that all nonresource requirements are met, our acceptance of the written agreement will not occur until the date the individual receives our written notice that all nonresource requirements are met and that the agreement is in effect. When the written notice is mailed to the individual, we assume that the notice was received 5 days after the date shown on the notice unless the individual shows us that he or she did not receive it within the 5-day period.

(b) The 3-month time period for disposition of personal property will be extended an additional 3 months where it is found that the individual had "good cause" for failing to dispose of the resources within the original time period. The rules on the valuation of real property not disposed of within 9 months are described in § 416.1245(b).

(c) An individual will be found to have "good cause" for failing to dispose of a resource if, despite reasonable and diligent effort on his part, he was prevented by circumstances beyond his control from disposing of the resource.

(d) In determining whether the appropriate time limits discussed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section have elapsed, no month will be counted for which an individual's benefits have been suspended as described in § 416.1320, provided that the reason for the suspension is unrelated to the requirements in § 416.1245(b) and that the individual's eligibility has not been terminated as defined in §§ 416.1331 through 416.1335.
