
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart M - Suspensions and Terminations
##### ยง 416.1337 Exceptions to the continuation of previously established payment level.
###### Multiple payments exception.

(a)(1) Where it is determined that a recipient is receiving two or more regular monthly payments in one month, the Social Security Administration shall determine the correct payment amount and, as soon as practicable thereafter, send the recipient an advance written notice of intent to make subsequent payment in that amount. Payment for the following month shall be made in the correct amount, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(2) The advance notice shall explain:

(i) That multiple payments were made in the one or more months identified in the notice;

(ii) The correct amount of monthly benefits that the recipient is eligible to receive; and

(iii) The recipient's appeal rights.

(3) If an appeal is filed within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of intent, the highest of the two or more check amounts, or the correct amount if higher (subject to the dollar limitation provisions), shall be continued until a decision on such initial level of appeal is issued. See ยง 416.1474 for criteria as to good cause for failure to file a timely appeal. For purposes of this paragraph, the date of receipt of the notice of intent shall be presumed to be 5 days after the date on the face of such notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary.

(4) The fact that a recipient is receiving multiple payments is established if the records of the Social Security Administration show that:

(i) Two or more checks are being sent to an individual under the same name or a common logical spelling variation of the name;

(ii) The social security number is the same or a pseudo number appears;

(iii) The checks are being sent to the same address;

(iv) The sex code for such individual is the same; and

(v) The date of birth for such individual is the same.
