
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart O - Representation of Parties
##### ยง 416.1530 Payment of fees.
###### Time limit for filing request for approval of fee to obtain direct payment.

(c)(1) To receive direct fee payment from your past-due benefits, a representative who is an attorney or an eligible non-attorney should file a request for approval of a fee, or written notice of the intent to file a request, at one of our offices, or electronically at the times and in the manner that we prescribe if we give notice that such a method is available, within 60 days of the date we mail the notice of the favorable determination or decision.

(2)(i) If no request is filed within 60 days of the date the notice of the favorable determination is mailed, we will mail a written notice to you and your representative at your last known addresses. The notice will inform you and the representative that unless the representative files, within 20 days from the date of the notice, a written request for approval of a fee under ยง 416.1525, or a written request for an extension of time, we will pay all the past-due benefits to you.

(ii) The representative must send you a copy of any request made to us for an extension of time. If the request is not filed within 20 days of the date of the notice, or by the last day of any extension we approved, we will pay to you all past-due benefits remaining after we reimburse the State for any interim assistance you received. We must approve any fee the representative charges after that time, but the collection of any approved fee is a matter between you and the representative.
