
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart P - Residence and Citizenship
##### ยง 416.1610 How to prove you are a citizen or a national of the United States.
###### How to prove you are an interim citizen of the United States if you live in the Northern Mariana Islands.

(b)As a resident of the Northern Mariana Islands you must meet certain conditions to prove you are an interim citizen of the United States. You must prove that you were domiciled in the Northern Mariana Islands as required by section 8 of the Schedule of Transitional Matters of the Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands, or that you were born there after March 6, 1977. By "domiciled" we mean that you maintained a residence with the intention of continuing that residence for an unlimited or indefinite period, and that you intended to return to that residence whenever absent, even for an extended period. You must also give us proof of your citizenship if you are a citizen of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands of which the Marianas are a part.

(1) You can prove you were domiciled in the Northern Mariana Islands by giving us-

(i) Statements of civil authorities; or

(ii) Receipts or other evidence that show you were domiciled there.

(2) You can prove that you are a citizen of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands by giving us-

(i) Your identification card issued by the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and a public or religious record of age which shows you were born in this territory;

(ii) Your voter's registration card;

(iii) A Chammoro Family Record showing your birth in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; or

(iv) Your naturalization certificate.
