
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart P - Residence and Citizenship
##### ยง 416.1618 When you are considered permanently residing in the United States under color of law.
###### Categories of aliens who are permanently residing in the United States under color of law.

(b)Aliens who are permanently residing in the United States under color of law are listed below. None of the categories includes applicants for an Immigration and Naturalization status other than those applicants listed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section or those covered under paragraph (b)(17) of this section. None of the categories allows SSI eligibility for nonimmigrants; for example, students or visitors. Also listed are the most common documents that the Immigration and Naturalization Service provides to aliens in these categories:

(1) Aliens admitted to the United States pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1153(a)(7), (section 203(a)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality Act). We ask for INS Form I-94 endorsed "Refugee-Conditional Entry";

(2) Aliens paroled into the United States pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5) (section 212(d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act) including Cuban/Haitian Entrants. We ask for INS Form I-94 with the notation that the alien was paroled pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. For Cuban/Haitian Entrants, we ask for INS Form I-94 stamped "Cuban/Haitian Entrant (Status Pending) reviewable January 15, 1981. Employment authorized until January 15, 1981." (Although the forms bear this notation, Cuban/Haitian Entrants are admitted under section 212(d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.);

(3) Aliens residing in the United States pursuant to an indefinite stay of deportation. We ask for an Immigration and Naturalization Service letter with this information or INS Form I-94 with such a notation;

(4) Aliens residing in the United States pursuant to an indefinite voluntary departure. We ask for an Immigration and Naturalization Service letter or INS Form I-94 showing that a voluntary departure has been granted for an indefinite time period;

(5) Aliens on whose behalf an immediate relative petition has been approved and their families covered by the petition, who are entitled to voluntary departure (under 8 CFR 242.5(a)(2)(vi)) and whose departure the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing. We ask for a copy of INS Form I-94 or I-210 letter showing that status;

(6) Aliens who have filed applications for adjustment of status pursuant to section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has accepted as "properly filed" (within the meaning of 8 CFR 245.2(a) (1) or (2)) and whose departure the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing. We ask for INS Form I-181 or a passport properly endorsed;

(7) Aliens granted stays of deportation by court order, statute or regulation, or by individual determination of the Immigration and Naturalization Service pursuant to section 106 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1105a) or relevant Immigration and Naturalization Service instructions, whose departure that agency does not contemplate enforcing. We ask for INS Form I-94 or a letter from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, or copy of a court order establishing the alien's status;

(8) Aliens granted asylum pursuant to section 208 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158). We ask for INS Form I-94 and a letter establishing this status;

(9) Aliens admitted as refugees pursuant to section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157) or section 203(a)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)(7)). We ask for INS Form I-94 properly endorsed;

(10) Aliens granted voluntary departure pursuant to section 242(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252(b)) or 8 CFR 242.5 whose departure the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing. We ask for INS Form I-94 or I-210 bearing a departure date;

(11) Aliens granted deferred action status pursuant to Immigration and Naturalization Service Operations Instruction 103.1(a)(ii) prior to June 15, 1984 or 242.1(a)(22) issued June 15, 1984 and later. We ask for INS Form I-210 or a letter showing that departure has been deferred;

(12) Aliens residing in the United States under orders of supervision pursuant to section 242 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252(d)). We ask for INS Form I-220B;

(13) Aliens who have entered and continuously resided in the United States since before January 1, 1972 (or any date established by section 249 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1259). We ask for any proof establishing this entry and continuous residence;

(14) Aliens granted suspension of deportation pursuant to section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254) and whose departure the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing. We ask for an order from the immigration judge;

(15) Aliens whose deportation has been withheld pursuant to section 243(h) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1253(h)). We ask for an order from an immigration judge showing that deportation has been withheld;

(16) Aliens granted lawful temporary resident status pursuant to section 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a). We ask for INS form I-688 showing that status; or

(17) Any other aliens living in the United States with the knowledge and permission of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and whose departure that agency does not contemplate enforcing.
