
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart P - Residence and Citizenship
##### ยง 416.1618 When you are considered permanently residing in the United States under color of law.
###### We must contact the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

(d)(1) We must contact the Immigration and Naturalization Service to verify the information you give us to prove you are permanently residing in the United States under color of law.

(2) If you give us any of the documents listed in paragraphs (b) (1), (2), (3), (4), (8), (9), (11), (12), (13), (15), or (16) of this section, we will pay you benefits if you meet all other eligibility requirements. We will contact the Immigration and Naturalization Service to verify that the document you give us is currently valid.

(3) If you give us any of the documents listed in paragraphs (b) (5), (6), (7), (10), or (14) of this section, or documents that indicate that you meet paragraph (b)(17) of this section, or any other information to prove you are permanently residing in the United States under color of law, we will contact the Immigration and Naturalization Service to verify that the document or other information is currently valid. We must also get information from the Immigration and Naturalization Service as to whether that agency contemplates enforcing your departure. We will apply the following rules:

(i) If you have a document that shows that you have an Immigration and Naturalization Service status that is valid for an indefinite period we will assume that the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing your departure. Therefore, we will pay you benefits if you meet all other eligibility requirements. If, based on the information we get from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, we find that your document is currently valid, we will consider this sufficient proof that the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing your departure. We will continue your benefits. However, if we find that your document is not currently valid, we will suspend your benefits under ยง 416.1320.

(ii) If you have a document that appears currently valid and shows you have an Immigration and Naturalization Service status for at least 1 year, or that shows the Immigration and Naturalization Service is allowing you to remain in the United States for a specified period due to conditions in your home country, we will assume that the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not contemplate enforcing your departure. Therefore, we will pay you benefits if you meet all other eligibility requirements. If, based on the information we get from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, we learn that your document is currently valid and that agency does not contemplate enforcing your departure, we will continue your benefits. However, if we learn that your document is not currently valid or that the Immigration and Naturalization Service does contemplate enforcing your departure, we will suspend your benefits under ยง 416.1320.

(iii) If you have a document that shows you have an Immigration and Naturalization Service status valid for less than 1 year, or if your document has no expiration date, or if you have no document, we will not pay you benefits until the Immigration and Naturalization Service confirms that your document is currently valid and we get information from that agency that indicates whether it contemplates enforcing your departure. If that agency does not contemplate enforcing your departure, we will pay you benefits if you meet all other eligibility requirements.

(iv) If at any time after you begin receiving benefits we receive information from the Immigration and Naturalization Service which indicates that the Immigration and Naturalization Service contemplates enforcing your departure, we will suspend your benefits under ยง 416.1320 and any benefits you have received after the date that the Immigration and Naturalization Service began contemplating enforcing departure will be overpayments under subpart E of this part.
