
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart T - State Supplementation Provisions; Agreement; Payments
##### ยง 416.2010 Essentials of the administration agreements.
###### Administrative costs.

(b)(1) SSA shall assess each State that had elected Federal administration of optional and/or mandatory State supplementary payments an administration fee for administering those payments. The administration fee is assessed and paid monthly and is derived by multiplying the number of State supplementary payments made by SSA on behalf of a State for any month in a fiscal year by the applicable dollar rate for the fiscal year. The number of supplementary payments made by SSA in a month is the total number of checks issued, and direct deposits made, to recipients in that month, that are composed in whole or in part of State supplementary funds. The dollar rates are as follows:

(i) For fiscal year 1994, $1.67;

(ii) For fiscal year 1995, $3.33;

(iii) For fiscal year 1996, $5.00;

(iv) For fiscal year 1997, $5.00;

(v) For fiscal year 1998, $6.20;

(vi) For fiscal year 1999, $7.60;

(vii) For fiscal year 2000, $7.80;

(viii) For fiscal year 2001, $8.10;

(ix) For fiscal year 2002, $8.50; and

(x) For fiscal year 2003 and each succeeding fiscal year-

(A) The applicable rate in the preceding fiscal year, increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year of the increase exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the calendar year of the increase, and rounded to the nearest whole cent; or

(B) Such different rate as the Commissioner determines is appropriate for the State taking into account the complexity of administering the State's supplementary payment program.

(2) SSA shall charge a State an additional services fee if, at the request of the State, SSA agrees to provide the State with additional services beyond the level customarily provided in the administration of State supplementary payments. The additional services fee shall be in an amount that SSA determines is necessary to cover all costs, including indirect costs, incurred by the Federal Government in furnishing the additional services. SSA is not required to perform any additional services requested by a State and may, at its sole discretion, refuse to perform those additional services. An additional services fee charged a State may be a one-time charge or, if the furnished services result in ongoing costs to the Federal Government, a monthly or less frequent charge to the State for providing such services.
