
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart T - State Supplementation Provisions; Agreement; Payments
##### ยง 416.2098 Supplementary payment levels.
###### i.e.

(2) Section 1618(c) of the Act permitted any State that had satisfied the requirements of section 1618 of the Act by the total-expenditures method for the 12-month period July 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982, and that elected to change and meet the section 1618 requirements by the maintenance-of-payment-levels method for the period July 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983, to do so by paying benefits at levels no lower than the levels of such payments in effect for December 1981. However, a recipient's December 1981 total income (December 1981 mandatory minimum State supplement plus the FBR) could not be less than the recipient's total income for December 1973 as defined in section 212(a)(3)(B) of Pub. L. 93-66. For a State that elected the option in the preceding two sentences, the mandatory minimum State supplementary payment level for March 1983 is a recipient's December 1981 total income (but not less than the total income for December 1973 as defined by section 212(a)(3)(B) of Pub. L. 93-66) plus any State increases after December 1981 and prior to April 1983, less any reductions made at any time after December 1981 due to changes in special needs or circumstances, less the March 1983 FBR. The amount determined under the previous sentence shall continue for April, May, and June 1983. For July 1983 and later, the amount calculated under the preceding sentence defining the required March 1983 mandatory minimum State supplementary payment level would continue except that it may be reduced by the amount of the July 1983 Federal increase that was not related to the cost of living (, $10.30), so long as that reduction does not cause the mandatory minimum State supplementary level to fall below that required by section 212(a)(3)(A) of Pub. L. 93-66.
