
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart T - State Supplementation Provisions; Agreement; Payments
##### ยง 416.2099 Compliance with pass-along.
###### Noncompliance by the States.

(c)Any State that makes supplementary payments on or after June 30, 1977, and does not have a pass-along agreement with the Commissioner in effect, shall be determined by the Commissioner to be ineligible for payments under title XIX of the Act. A State does not have an agreement in effect if it has not entered into an agreement or has not complied with the terms of the agreement. Ineligibility shall apply to total expenditures for any calendar quarter beginning after June 30, 1977, for which a State has not entered into an agreement. A State that enters into an agreement but does not maintain its payment levels or meet the total-expenditures test in a particular 12-month or transitional 6-month period, shall be determined by the Commissioner not to have an agreement in effect for any month that the State did not meet the pass-along requirements during that particular period. The State shall then be ineligible for title XIX payments for any calendar quarter containing a month for which an agreement was not in effect. If a State first makes supplementary payments beginning with a month after June 1977, ineligibility shall apply to any calendar quarter beginning after the calendar quarter in which the State first makes payments.
