
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 416 - SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED
#### Subpart V - Payments for Vocational Rehabilitation Services
##### Administrative Provisions
###### ยง 416.2221 Validation reviews.
####### General.

(a)We will conduct a validation review of a sample of the claims for payment filed by each State VR agency. We will conduct some of these reviews on a prepayment basis and some on a postpayment basis. We may review a specific claim, a sample of the claims, or all the claims filed by any State VR agency, if we determine that such review is necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart. For each claim selected for review, the State VR agency must submit such records of the VR services and costs for which payment has been requested or made under this subpart, or copies of such records, as we may require to ensure that the services and costs meet the requirements for payment. For claims for cases described in ยง 416.2201(a), a clear explanation or existing documentation which demonstrates how the service contributed to the individual's performance of a continuous 9-month period of SGA must be provided. For claims for cases described in ยง 416.2201(b) or (c), a clear explanation or existing documentation which demonstrates how the service was reasonably expected to motivate or assist the individual to return to or continue in SGA must be provided. If we find in any prepayment validation review that the scope or content of the information is inadequate, we will request additional information and will withhold payment until adequate information has been provided. The State VR agency shall permit us (including duly authorized representatives) access to, and the right to examine, any records relating to such services and costs. Any review performed under this section will not be considered an audit for purposes of this subpart.
