
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart B - Medicare Part B Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
##### Introduction, General Provisions, and Definitions
###### ยง 418.1001 What is this subpart about?

This subpart relates to section 1839(i) of the Social Security Act (the Act), as amended. Section 1839(i) establishes an income-related monthly adjustment to the Medicare Part B premium. Beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Part B who have modified adjusted gross income over a threshold amount established in the statute will pay an income-related monthly adjustment amount in addition to the Medicare Part B standard monthly premium and any applicable premium increases as described in 42 CFR 408.20. The regulations in this subpart explain how we decide whether you are required to pay an income-related monthly adjustment amount, and if you are, the amount of your adjustment. The rules are divided into the following groups of sections:

(a) Sections 418.1001 through 418.1010 contain the introduction, a statement of the general purpose of the income-related monthly adjustment amount, general provisions that apply to the income-related monthly adjustment amount, and definitions of terms that we use in this subpart.

(b) Sections 418.1101 through 418.1150 describe what information about your modified adjusted gross income we will use to determine if you are required to pay an income-related monthly adjustment amount. In these sections, we also describe how the income-related monthly adjustment amount will affect your total Medicare Part B premium.

(c) Sections 418.1201 through 418.1270 contain an explanation of the standards that you must meet for us to grant your request to use modified adjusted gross income information that you provide for a more recent tax year rather than the information described in paragraph (b) of this section. These sections explain when we may consider such a request, and the evidence that you will be required to provide. These sections also explain when income-related monthly adjustment amount determinations based on information you provide will be effective, and how long they will remain in effect. Additionally, these sections describe how retroactive adjustments of the income-related monthly adjustment amount will be made based on information you provide, updated information you provide, and information we later receive from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

(d) Sections 418.1301 through 418.1355 contain the rules that we will apply when you disagree with our determination regarding your income-related monthly adjustment amount. These sections explain your appeal rights and the circumstances under which you may request that we make a new initial determination of your income-related monthly adjustment amount.
