
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart B - Medicare Part B Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
##### Determination of the Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
###### § 418.1135 What modified adjusted gross income information will we use to determine your income-related monthly adjustment amount?

(a) In general, we will use your modified adjusted gross income provided by IRS for the tax year 2 years prior to the effective year of the income-related monthly adjustment amount determination. Modified adjusted gross income is based on information you provide to IRS when you file your Federal income tax return.

(b) We will use your modified adjusted gross income for the tax year 3 years prior to the effective year of the income-related monthly adjustment amount determination when IRS does not provide the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If IRS can provide modified adjusted gross income for the tax year 3 years prior to the income-related monthly adjustment amount effective year, we will temporarily use that information to determine your income-related monthly adjustment amount and make adjustments as described in § 418.1110(b) to all affected income-related monthly adjustment amounts when information for the year specified in paragraph (a) of this section is provided by IRS.

(c) When we have used the information in paragraph (b) of this section, you may provide us with evidence of your modified adjusted gross income for the year in paragraph (a) of this section. You must provide a retained copy of your signed Federal income tax return for that year, if available. If you filed a return for that year, but did not retain a copy, you must request a transcript or a copy of your return from IRS and provide it to us. When we use this evidence, we will later confirm this information with IRS records.

(d) When you meet the conditions specified in § 418.1150 because you have amended your Federal income tax return, or when you believe we have used information provided by IRS which is incorrect, as described in § 418.1335, we will use information that you provide directly to us regarding your modified adjusted gross income.

(e) We may use information that you give us about your modified adjusted gross income for a more recent tax year than those discussed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section as described in §§ 418.1201 through 418.1270.

(f) If you fail to file an income tax return for any year after 2004 and IRS informs us that you had modified adjusted gross income above the threshold applicable 2 years after the tax year when you failed to file an income tax return, we will impose the highest income-related adjustment percentage applicable to your income filing status for the effective year. If we later determine that the amount of the income-related monthly adjustment amount imposed was inconsistent with your modified adjusted gross income, we will correct it. The rules in 42 CFR 408.40 through 408.92 will apply to the collection of any retroactive premiums due.
