
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart B - Medicare Part B Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
##### Determinations Using a More Recent Tax Year's Modified Adjusted Gross Income
###### § 418.1255 What kind of major life-changing event evidence will you need to support your request for us to use a more recent tax year?

(a) If your spouse died and we do not have evidence of the death in our records, we will require proof of death as described in § 404.720(b) or (c) or § 404.721 of this chapter.

(b) If you marry and we do not have evidence of the marriage in our records, we will require proof of marriage as described in §§ 404.725 through 404.727 of this chapter.

(c) If your marriage ends and we do not have evidence that the marriage has ended in our records, we will require proof that the marriage has ended as described in § 404.728(b) or (c) of this chapter.

(d) If you or your spouse stop working or reduce your work hours, we will require evidence documenting the change in work activity. Examples of acceptable documentation include, but are not limited to, documents we can corroborate such as a signed statement from your employer, proof of the transfer of your business, or your signed statement under penalty of perjury, describing your work separation or a reduction in hours.

(e) If you or your spouse experiences a loss of income-producing property, we will require evidence documenting the loss. Examples of acceptable evidence include, but are not limited to, insurance claims or an insurance adjuster's statement. If the claim of loss is due to criminal fraud or theft by a third party, we will also require proof of conviction for the fraud or theft, such as a court document.

(f) If you or your spouse experiences a scheduled cessation, termination, or reorganization of an employer's pension plan, we will require evidence documenting the change in or loss of the pension. An example of acceptable evidence includes, but is not limited to, a statement from your pension fund administrator explaining the reduction or termination of your benefits.

(g) If you or your spouse receives a settlement from an employer or former employer because of the employer's closure, bankruptcy, or reorganization, we will require evidence documenting the settlement and the reason(s) for the settlement. An example of acceptable evidence includes, but is not limited to, a letter from the former employer stating the settlement terms and how they affect you or your spouse.
