
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart B - Medicare Part B Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
##### Determinations Using a More Recent Tax Year's Modified Adjusted Gross Income
###### § 418.1265 What kind of significant modified adjusted gross income reduction evidence will you need to support your request?

(a) You must provide evidence that one or more of the major life-changing events described in § 418.1205 resulted in a significant reduction in your modified adjusted gross income for the tax year you request we use.

(b) The preferred evidence is your retained copy of your filed Federal income tax return, your retained copy of your amended tax return with an IRS letter of receipt of the amended tax return, your copy of proof of a correction of the IRS information we used or a copy of your return or amended or proof of a correction of tax return information that you obtain from IRS for the more recent tax year you request we use.

(c) When a copy of your filed Federal income tax return is not available for the more recent tax year in which your modified adjusted gross income was significantly reduced, we will accept equivalent evidence. Equivalent evidence is the appropriate proof(s) in paragraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) of this section, plus your signed statement under penalty of perjury that the information you provide is true and correct. When the major life-changing event changes your tax filing status, or the income-related monthly adjustment amount determination could be affected by your tax filing status, you will also be required to sign a statement regarding your intended income tax filing status for the tax year you request we use.

(1) If you experience one or more of the events described in § 418.1205(a), (b), or (c), you must provide evidence as to how the event(s) significantly reduced your modified adjusted gross income. Examples of the type of evidence include, but are not limited to, evidence of your spouse's modified adjusted gross income and/or your modified adjusted gross income for the tax year we use.

(2) If you experience one or more of the events described in § 418.1205(d), (e), (f), or (g), you must provide evidence of how the event(s) significantly reduced your modified adjusted gross income, such as a statement explaining any modified adjusted gross income changes for the tax year we used and a copy of your filed Federal income tax return (if you have filed one).

(3) If your spouse experiences one or more of the events described in § 418.1205(d), (e), (f), or (g), you must provide evidence of the resulting significant reduction in your modified adjusted gross income. The evidence requirements are described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(d) When we use information described in paragraph (c) of this section, we will request that you provide your retained copy of your Federal income tax return for the year we used when you file your taxes. We will use that information to make timely adjustments to your Medicare premium, if necessary. We will later verify the information you provide when we receive information about that tax year from IRS, as described in § 418.1140(d).
