
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart B - Medicare Part B Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
##### Determinations and the Administrative Review Process
###### § 418.1310 When may you request that we make a new initial determination?

(a) You may request that we make a new initial determination in the following circumstances:

(1) You provide a copy of your filed Federal income tax return for the tax year 2 years prior to the effective year when IRS has provided information for the tax year 3 years prior to the effective year. You may request a new initial determination beginning with the date you receive a notice from us regarding your income-related monthly adjustment amount until the end of the effective year, with one exception. If you receive the notice during the last 3 months of a calendar year, you may request a new initial determination beginning with the date you receive the notice until March 31 of the following year. We will follow the rules and procedures in §§ 418.1110(b) and 418.1140(b) to make a new initial determination and any necessary retroactive adjustments back to January 1 of the effective year, or the first month you were enrolled in Medicare Part B in the effective year if later than January.

(2) You provide a copy of an amended tax return filed with IRS, as defined in § 418.1010(b)(1). We will use your amended tax return for the same tax year as the year used to determine your income-related monthly adjustment amount. You must request the new initial determination within the timeframe described in § 418.1150.

(3) You provide proof that the tax return information about your modified adjusted gross income or tax filing status IRS gave us is incorrect. We will use proof that you obtain from IRS of a correction of your tax return information for the same tax year instead of the information that was provided to us by IRS, as explained in § 418.1335(a). You may request a new initial determination at any time after you receive a notice from us regarding your income-related monthly adjustment amount if you have such proof. We will use the rules and procedures in § 418.1335.

(4) You have a major life-changing event. You may request a new initial determination based on a major life-changing event when you meet all the requirements described in § 418.1201. You may make such a request at any time during the calendar year in which you experience a significant reduction in your modified adjusted gross income caused by a major life-changing event. When you have a major life-changing event that occurs in the last 3 months of a calendar year and your modified adjusted gross income for that year is significantly reduced as a result of the event, you may request that we make a new initial determination based on your major life-changing event from the date of the event until March 31 of the next year. We will follow the rules in § 418.1230 when we make a new initial determination based on your major life-changing event.

(b) If a request for a new initial determination based on any of the circumstances in paragraph (a) of this section is made after the time frame provided for each type of listed circumstance, we will review the request under the rules in § 404.911 of this chapter to determine if there is good cause for a late request.

(c) We will notify you of the new initial determination as described in § 418.1315.

(d) We will dismiss your request to make a new initial determination if it does not meet one of the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section. Our dismissal of your request for a new initial determination is not an initial determination subject to further administrative or judicial review.
