
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart B - Medicare Part B Income-Related Monthly Adjustment Amount
##### Determinations and the Administrative Review Process
###### § 418.1335 What should you do if our initial determination is based on modified adjusted gross income information you believe to be incorrect?

If you believe that IRS or you provided incorrect modified adjusted gross income information to us that we used to determine your income-related monthly adjustment amount, you can request information from us on how to contact IRS regarding the information we used.

(a) If IRS determines that the information it provided is not correct, IRS will provide you with documentation of the error, such as a copy of your Federal income tax return. If you would like us to use the revised or corrected information to determine your income-related monthly adjustment amount, you will need to request that we use that information and provide us with the IRS documentation confirming the error. We will make any necessary retroactive corrections as described in § 418.1110(d) to your income-related monthly adjustment amount.

(b) If you provided information to us about your modified adjusted gross income that we used to determine your income-related monthly adjustment amount, and that information is not correct, you may provide revised or corrected information. We will use the revised or corrected information if it reduces or eliminates your income-related monthly adjustment amount. We will make any necessary retroactive corrections as described in § 418.1110 to your income-related monthly adjustment amount. If you are providing corrected information about a more recent tax year's modified adjusted gross income that we used due to your major life-changing event, as described in § 418.1240, we will use the rules in § 418.1245 to determine how it will affect your income-related monthly adjustment amount.
