
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart C - Income-Related Monthly Adjustments to Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Premiums
##### Introduction, General Provisions, and Definitions
###### ยง 418.2001 What is this subpart about?

This subpart implements sections 1860D-13(a)(7) and 1860D-13(c)(4) of the Social Security Act (the Act), as added by section 3308 of the Affordable Care Act (Pub. L. 111-148). Section 3308(a) establishes an income-related monthly adjustment to Medicare prescription drug coverage premiums. Persons enrolled in Medicare prescription drug plans, Medicare Advantage plans with prescription drug coverage, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly plans, and cost plans offering prescription drug coverage who have modified adjusted gross income over a threshold amount established in the statute will pay an income-related monthly adjustment amount in addition to their Medicare prescription drug coverage plan's monthly premium and any applicable premium increases as described in 42 CFR 423.286. The regulations in this subpart explain how we determine whether you are required to pay an income-related monthly adjustment amount, and if you are, the amount of your adjustment. We have divided the rules into the following groups of sections:

(a) Sections 418.2001 through 418.2010 contain the introduction, a statement of the general purpose of the income-related monthly adjustment amount, general provisions that apply to the income-related monthly adjustment amount, and definitions of terms that we use in this subpart.

(b) Sections 418.2101 through 418.2150 describe what information about your modified adjusted gross income we will use to determine if you are required to pay an income-related monthly adjustment amount. In these sections, we also describe how the income-related monthly adjustment amount will affect your total Medicare prescription drug coverage premium.

(c) Sections 418.2201 through 418.2270 contain an explanation of the standards that you must meet for us to grant your request to use modified adjusted gross income information that you provide for a more recent tax year rather than the information described in paragraph (b) of this section. These sections explain when we may consider such a request, and the evidence that you will be required to provide. These sections also explain when an income-related monthly adjustment amount determination based on information you provide will be effective, and how long it will remain in effect. Additionally, these sections describe how we make retroactive adjustments of the income-related monthly adjustment amount based on information you provide, updated information you provide, and information we later receive from the Internal Revenue Service.

(d) Sections 418.2301 through 418.2355 explain how we will notify you of our determination regarding your income-related monthly adjustment amount and contain the rules that we will apply when you disagree with our determination. These sections explain your appeal rights and the circumstances under which you may request that we make a new initial determination of your income-related monthly adjustment amount.
