
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter II - Railroad Retirement Board
### Subchapter B - Regulations Under the Railroad Retirement Act
#### PART 217 - APPLICATION FOR ANNUITY OR LUMP SUM
##### Subpart B - Applications
###### ยง 217.8 When one application satisfies the filing requirement for other benefits.

An annuity application filed with the Board is generally considered as an application for other benefits to which a person is or may be eligible. Therefore a claimant does not need to file another application to be entitled to any of the following types of benefits:

(a) An employee age annuity if-

(1) The employee's application for a disability annuity is denied and the employee is eligible for the age annuity on the date the application is filed; or

(2) The employee is entitled to a disability annuity in the month before the month he or she is 65 years old.

(b) An employee disability annuity if an application for an age annuity is denied and the employee is eligible for the disability annuity on the date the application is filed.

(c) An accrued employee or supplemental annuity, or a residual lump sum, if a claimant is eligible for one of these payments when he or she files an application for a survivor annuity or lump-sum payment under this chapter.

(d) A widow(er)'s annuity if the widow(er) was entitled to a spouse annuity in the month before the month the employee died.

(e) A widow(er)'s annuity if the widow(er) was included in the computation of the employee's annuity under the social security overall minimum provision of the Railroad Retirement Act in the month before the month the employee died.

(f) A child's annuity if the spouse of the employee had the child "in care" and was entitled to a spouse annuity in the month before the month the employee died.

(g) A child's annuity or child's full-time student annuity if the child of the employee was included in the computation of the employee's annuity under the social security overall minimum provision of the Railroad Retirement Act in the month before the month the employee died.

(h) A widow(er)'s annuity based on age if the widow(er) was entitled to a widow(er)'s annuity based on disability in the month before the month in which he or she attains age 60.

(i) A widow(er)'s annuity based on age or disability if a widow(er), who was receiving an annuity because he or she had the employee's child "in care", is eligible for an age or disability annuity when he or she no longer has an eligible child "in care".

(j) A spouse annuity based on age if a spouse, who was receiving an annuity because he or she had the employee's child "in care", is eligible for an unreduced age annuity when he or she no longer has an eligible child "in care".

(k) A widow(er)'s annuity based upon having the employee's child "in care" if during the time the widow(er) is entitled to an annuity based on disability, he or she has "in care" a child of the deceased employee.

(l) A divorced spouse annuity if the divorced spouse was entitled to a spouse annuity reduced for age in the month before the month of the effective date of the final decree of divorce.

(m) A divorced spouse annuity if the spouse claimant has remarried the employee during the six-month retroactive period of the spouse annuity application.

(n) A divorced spouse annuity if the divorced spouse was entitled to a spouse annuity not reduced for age in the month before the month of the effective date of the final decree of divorce and would also be entitled to a divorced spouse annuity not reduced for age.

(o) A surviving divorced spouse annuity if the surviving divorced spouse was entitled to a divorced spouse annuity in the month before the month the employee died.

(p) A remarried widow(er)'s annuity if the remarried widow(er) was entitled to a widow(er)'s annuity in the month before the month of remarriage.

(q) A remarried widow(er)'s annuity or a surviving divorced spouse annuity based on age or disability if the remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse, who was receiving an annuity because he or she had the employee's child "in care", is eligible for an age or disability annuity when he or she no longer has an eligible child "in care".

(r) A remarried widow(er)'s annuity or a surviving divorced spouse annuity based on age if the remarried widow(er) or the surviving divorced spouse was entitled to an annuity based on the disability in the month before the month in which he or she attains age 65.

(s) A remarried widow(er)'s annuity or a surviving divorced spouse annuity based on age if the remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse, who was receiving an annuity based on disability, is 60 years old or older when he or she recovers from the disability.

(t) A benefit under title II of the Social Security Act unless the applicant restricts the application only to an annuity payable under the Railroad Retirement Act.

(u) An accrued annuity due at the death of a spouse or divorced spouse if the claimant is entitled to an employee annuity on the same claim number.

(v) A full-time student's annuity if the student was entitled to a child's annuity in the month before the month the child attained age 18.
