
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart D - Medicare Part D Subsidies
##### Eligibility for a Medicare Prescription Drug Subsidy
###### ยง 418.3120 What happens if your circumstances change after we determine you are eligible for a subsidy?
####### i.e.

(4) You and your spouse separate (, you or your spouse move out of the household and you are no longer living with your spouse) unless the separation is a temporary absence as described in ยง 404.347 of this chapter.

(5) You and your spouse resume living together after having been separated.

(6) You and your spouse, who lives with you, have your marriage annulled.

(7) You (or your spouse, who lives with you, if applicable) expect your estimated annual income to increase or decrease in the next calendar year.

(8) You (or your spouse, who lives with you, if applicable) expect your resources to increase or decrease in the next calendar year.

(9) Your family size as defined in 42 CFR 423.772 has changed or will change (other than a change resulting from one of the events in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section).

(10) You become eligible for one of the programs listed in 42 CFR 423.773(c).

(b)(1) When you report one of the events listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, or we receive such a report from another source (e.g., a data exchange of reports of death), we will send you a redetermination form upon receipt of the report. You must return the completed form within 90 days of the date of the form.

(2) When you report one of the events listed in paragraphs (a)(7) through (a)(9) of this section or we receive such a report from another source (e.g., a data exchange involving income records), we will send you a redetermination form between August and December to evaluate the change. You must return the completed form to us within 30 days of the date of the form.

(3) If we increase, decrease, or terminate your subsidy as a result of the redetermination, we will send you a notice telling you:

(i) Whether you can receive a full or partial subsidy as described in 42 CFR 423.780 and 423.782.

(ii) How we calculated your income and resources;

(iii) When the change in your subsidy is effective;

(iv) Your appeal rights;

(v) What to do if your situation changes.

(4) If your spouse who lives with you dies, your spouse's death may result in changes in your income or resources that could decrease or eliminate your subsidy. If we are informed of the death of your spouse and the death would cause a decrease in or elimination of your subsidy, we will notify you that we will not immediately change your subsidy because of your spouse's death. We will defer your redetermination for 1 year from the month following the month we are notified of the death of your spouse, unless we receive a report of another event specified in 418.3120(a) that would affect your eligibility for a subsidy.

(c) If you become eligible for one of the programs listed in 42 CFR 423.773(c), CMS will notify you of any change in your subsidy.
