
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart D - Medicare Part D Subsidies
##### Eligibility for a Medicare Prescription Drug Subsidy
###### ยง 418.3125 What are redeterminations?
####### When we make redeterminations.

(b)(1) We will redetermine your subsidy eligibility within one year after we determine that you are eligible for the subsidy.

(2) After the first redetermination, we will redetermine your subsidy eligibility at intervals determined by the Commissioner. The length of time between redeterminations varies depending on the likelihood that your situation may change in a way that affects your eligibility and whether you should receive a full or partial subsidy.

(3) We may also redetermine your eligibility and whether you should receive a full or partial subsidy when you tell us of a change in your circumstances described in ยง 418.3120.

(4) We may redetermine your eligibility when we receive information from you or from data exchanges with Federal and State agencies that may affect whether you should receive a full or partial subsidy or your eligibility for the subsidy.

(5) We will also redetermine eligibility on a random sample of cases for quality assurance purposes. For each collection of sample cases, all factors affecting eligibility and/or whether you should receive a full or partial subsidy may be verified by contact with primary repositories of information relevant to each individual factor (e.g., we may contact employers to verify wage information). Consequently, we may contact a variety of other sources, in addition to recontacting you, to verify the completeness and accuracy of our information.
