
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart D - Medicare Part D Subsidies
##### Income
###### ยง 418.3340 How do we count your unearned income?
####### Amount considered as income.

(c)We may include more or less of your income than you actually receive.

(1) We include more than you actually receive where another benefit payment (such as a social security benefit) has been reduced to recover an overpayment. In such a situation, you are repaying a legal obligation through the withholding of portions of your benefit amount, and the amount of this withholding is part of your unearned income.

(2) We also include more than you actually receive if amounts are withheld from unearned income because of a garnishment, or to pay a debt or other legal obligation, or to make any other payment such as payment of your Medicare premiums.

(3) We include less than you actually receive if part of the payment is for an expense you had in getting the payment. For example, if you are paid for damages you receive in an accident, we subtract from the amount of the payment your medical, legal, or other expenses connected with the accident. If you receive a retroactive check from a benefit program, we subtract legal fees connected with the claim. We do not subtract from any taxable unearned income the part you have to use to pay personal income taxes. The payment of taxes is not an expense you have in getting income.
