
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 418 - MEDICARE SUBSIDIES
#### Subpart D - Medicare Part D Subsidies
##### Determinations and the Administrative Review Process
###### ยง 418.3625 What is the process for administrative review?
####### Hearing waived, rescheduled, or missed.

(c)If you decide you do not want a hearing by telephone or if you are not available at the time of the scheduled hearing, the decision in your case will be made by a case review. This means that the decision will be based on the information in your file and any additional information you provide. You may ask for a change in the time and date of the telephone hearing; this should be done at the earliest possible opportunity prior to the hearing. Your request must state your reason(s) for needing the change in time or date and state the new time and date you want the hearing to be held. We will change the time and date, but not necessarily to your preferred time or date, of the telephone hearing if you have good cause. If you miss the scheduled hearing and the decision in your case is decided by a case review, we will provide a hearing, at your written request, if we decide you had good cause for missing the scheduled hearing. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) You have attempted to obtain a representative but need additional time;

(2) Your representative was appointed within 30 days of the scheduled hearing and needs additional time to prepare for the hearing;

(3) Your representative has a prior commitment to be in court or at another administrative hearing on the date scheduled for your hearing;

(4) A witness who will testify to facts material to your case would be unavailable to participate in the scheduled hearing and the evidence cannot be obtained any other way;

(5) You are unrepresented, and you are unable to respond to the notice of hearing because of any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) that you may have; or

(6) You did not receive notice of the hearing appointment.
