
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart A - Organization and Functions of the Social Security Administration
##### ยง 422.5 District offices and branch offices.

There are over 700 social security district offices and branch offices located in the principal cities and other urban areas or towns of the United States. In addition, there are over 3,300 contact stations, located in population and trading centers, which are visited on a regularly, recurring, preannounced basis. A schedule of these visits can be obtained from the nearest district office or branch office. The address of the nearest district office or branch office can be obtained from the local telephone directory or from the post office. Each district office and branch office has a list of all district offices and branch offices throughout the country and their addresses. The principal officer in each district office is the manager. The principal officer in each branch office is the officer-in-charge. Each district office and branch office also has a list of field offices of the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals and their addresses. The administrative hearing examiner is the principal officer in each field office. For procedures relating to claims see ยง 422.130, subpart J of part 404 of this chapter, and ยง 404.1520 of this chapter (the latter relating to disability determinations). For procedures on request for hearing by an Administrative Law Judge and review by the Appeals Council see subpart C of this part 422.
