
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B - General Procedures
##### ยง 422.107 Evidence requirements.
###### Evidence of alien status,General evidence rules.

(e)-(1)When a person who is not a U.S. citizen applies for an original social security number or a replacement social security number card, he or she is required to submit, as evidence of alien status, a current document issued by the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with that agency's regulations. The document must show that the applicant has been lawfully admitted to the United States, either for permanent residence or under authority of law permitting him or her to work in the United States, or that the applicant's alien status has changed so that it is lawful for him or her to work. If the applicant fails to submit such a document, a social security number card will not be issued. If the applicant submits an unexpired Department of Homeland Security document(s) which shows current authorization to work, a social security number will be assigned or verified and a card which can be used for work will be issued. If the authorization of the applicant to work is temporary or subject to termination by the Department of Homeland Security, the SSA records may be so annotated. If the document(s) does not provide authorization to work and the applicant wants a social security number for a work purpose, no social security number will be assigned. If the applicant requests the number for a nonwork purpose and provides evidence documenting that the number is needed for a valid nonwork purpose, the number may be assigned and the card issued will be annotated with a nonwork legend. The SSA record will be annotated to show that a number has been assigned and a card issued for a nonwork purpose. In that case, if earnings are later reported to SSA, the Department of Homeland Security will be notified of the report. SSA may also notify that agency if earnings are reported for a social security number that was valid for work when assigned but for which work authorization expired or was later terminated by the Department of Homeland Security SSA may also annotate the record with other remarks, if appropriate.
