
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B - General Procedures
##### ยง 422.125 Statements of earnings; resolving earnings discrepancies.
###### Request for revision of earnings records.

(d)If an individual disagrees with a statement of earnings credited to his social security account, he may request a revision by writing to the Bureau of Data Processing and Accounts, Social Security Administration, Baltimore, MD 21235, or by calling at or writing to any social security district office or branch office or, if the individual is in the Philippines, by calling at or writing to the Veterans' Administration Regional Office, Manila, Philippines. Upon receipt of a request for revision, the Social Security Administration will initiate an investigation of the individual's record of earnings. Form OAR-7008, "Statement of Employment for Wages and Self-Employment," is used by the Social Security Administration for obtaining information from the individual requesting a revision to aid the Administration in the investigation. These forms are available at any of the sources listed in this paragraph. If an individual receives a Form OAR-7008 from the Bureau of Data Processing and Accounts, the completed form should be returned to that office. In the course of the investigation the district office or branch office, where appropriate, contacts the employer and the employee or the self-employed individual, whichever is applicable, for the purpose of obtaining the information and evidence necessary to reconcile any discrepancy between the allegations of the individual and the records of the Administration. See subpart I of part 404 of this chapter for requirements for filing requests for revision, and for limitation on the revision of records of earnings.
