
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart G - Administrative Review Process Under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992
##### ยง 422.605 Request for review.

We will review an assignment if you request review and show that there is a prima facie case of error regarding the assignment. This review is a review on the record and will not entail a face-to-face hearing. We will review an assignment if:

(a) You are an assigned operator (or related person);

(b) Your request is in writing and states your reasons for believing the assignment is erroneous;

(c) Your request is filed with us no later than 30 days from the date you received the detailed information described in ยง 422.604, or no later than 30 days from the date you received the notice of assignment if you choose not to request detailed information. Unless you submit evidence showing a later receipt of the notice, we will assume you received the detailed information or the notice of assignment within 5 days of the date shown thereon. We will consider the request to be filed as of the date we receive it. However, if we receive the request after the 30-day period, the postmark date on the envelope may be used as the filing date. If there is no postmark or the postmark is illegible, the filing date will be deemed to be the fifth day prior to the day we received the request; and

(d) Your request is accompanied by evidence establishing a prima facie case of error regarding the assignment. If your request for review includes a request for additional time to submit such evidence, we will give you an additional 90 days from the date of your request for review to submit such evidence to us.
