
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Administrative Claims Collection
##### ยง 422.809 Collection in installments.

Whenever feasible, we will collect the total amount of a debt in one lump sum payment. If a debtor claims a financial inability to pay a debt in one lump sum, by funds or Administrative Offset, we may accept payment in regular installments provided the debtor establishes the financial need and no evidence indicates that fraud or similar fault affected the debt. We will request financial statements from debtors who represent that they are unable to pay in one lump sum and independently verify such representations as described in ยง 422.846.

(a) When we agree to accept payments in regular installments, we will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all the terms and conditions of the agreement and includes a provision accelerating the debt in the event of a default.

(b) The size and frequency of the payments will reasonably relate to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. Whenever feasible, the installment agreement will provide for full payment of the debt, including interest and charges, in three years or less.

(c) When appropriate, the agreement will include a provision identifying security obtained from the debtor for the deferred payments, such as a surety bond or confession of judgment supporting a lien on any property of the debtor.

(d) An approved installment agreement does not prevent the use of Administrative Wage Garnishment or other collection tools in this subpart.
