
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Administrative Claims Collection
##### ยง 422.815 Referral of administrative debts to the Department of the Treasury.

(a) Agencies are required by law to transfer delinquent, nontax, and legally enforceable debts to Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection through cross-servicing and through centralized Administrative Offset. Additionally, we may transfer debts to the Treasury for collection through Administrative Wage Garnishment. Agencies need not make duplicate referrals to Treasury for all these purposes; we may refer a debt to Treasury for purposes of simultaneous collection by cross-servicing, centralized Administrative Offset, and Administrative Wage Garnishment where applicable. However, in some instances a debt exempt from cross-servicing collection may be subject to collection by centralized Administrative Offset, so simultaneous referrals are not always appropriate.

(b) When we refer or transfer administrative debts to Treasury, or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), Treasury will service, collect, or compromise the debts, or Treasury will suspend or terminate the collection action, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.

(c) Debts that are not required for referral include:

(1) Debts delinquent for 120 calendar days or less;

(2) Debts less than $100 and we are unable to obtain the debtor's taxpayer identification number;

(3) Debts in litigation or foreclosure as defined in 31 CFR 285.12(d)(2);

(4) Debts that have been referred to a private collection contractor for a period acceptable to Treasury;

(5) Debts that will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program as defined in 31 CFR 285.12(d)(3)(i);

(6) Debts that will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent;

(7) Debts at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to Treasury; or

(8) Debts exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States. Federal agencies may request that the Secretary of the Treasury exempt specific classes of debts. Any such request by an agency must be sent to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury by the agency's Chief Financial Officer.
