
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Administrative Claims Collection
##### ยง 422.835 Debt reporting and use of credit reporting agencies.
###### Reporting delinquent debts.

(a)(1) We may report delinquent debts over $25 to credit bureaus or other automated databases.

(2) We will report administrative debts owed by individuals to consumer reporting agencies pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12). We may disclose only the individual's name, address, and Social Security number and the nature, amount, status, and history of the debt.

(3) Once we refer a debt to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for collection, Treasury may handle any subsequent reporting to or updating of a credit bureau or other automated database.

(4) Where there is reason to believe that a debtor has filed a bankruptcy petition, prior to proceeding under this paragraph (a), we will contact the Office of the General Counsel for legal advice concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly with respect to the applicability of the automatic stay, 11 U.S.C. 362, and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay.

(5) If the debtor has not received prior notice under ยง 422.805, before reporting a delinquent debt under this section, we will provide the debtor at least 60 days notice including:

(i) The amount and nature of the debt;

(ii) That the debt is delinquent and that we intend to report the debt to a credit bureau;

(iii) The specific information that we will disclose;

(iv) The right to dispute the accuracy and validity of the information being disclosed; and

(v) If a previous opportunity was not provided, the right to request review of the debt or rescheduling of payment.
