
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 422 - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Administrative Claims Collection
##### ยง 422.850 Referrals to the Department of Justice.
###### Prompt referral.

(a)(1)(i) We will promptly refer to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with ยง 422.803, and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with ยง 422.848.

(ii) We may refer debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, the agency to DOJ for litigation.

(2)(i) Debts for which the principal amount is over $100,000 or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at the DOJ.

(ii) Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000 or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be referred to the Nationwide Central Intake Facility at the DOJ as required by the Claims Collections Litigation Report (CCLR) instructions.

(3)(i) Consistent with aggressive agency collection activity and the standards contained in this part and 31 CFR parts 900 through 904, debts will be referred to the DOJ as early as possible and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors.

(ii) We will make every effort to refer delinquent debts to the DOJ for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, we will make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to the DOJ for litigation within one year from the date the debt was known to the agency.

(4) The DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over debts referred to it pursuant to this subpart. Upon referral of a debt to the DOJ, we will:

(i) Immediately terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect the debt;

(ii) Advise the DOJ of the collection tools utilized and the results of activities to date; and

(iii) Refrain from having any contact with the debtor and direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to the DOJ.

(5) After referral of a debt under this subpart, we will immediately notify the DOJ of any payments credited by the agency to the debtor's account. Pursuant to 31 CFR 904.1(b), after referral of the debt under this subpart, the DOJ will notify the agency of any payment received from the debtor.
