
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 429 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND RELATED STATUTES
#### Subpart A - Claims Against the Government Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
##### ยง 429.104 What evidence do I need to submit with my claim?
###### Personal injury.

(b)To support a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, you may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report from your attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of your injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, your prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. You may also be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed or designated by SSA. If you submit a written request, we will provide you with a copy of the report of the examining physician provided you agree to make available to SSA any other physician's reports made of the physical or mental condition that is the subject of your claim.

(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(3) If your prognosis reveals that you will need future treatment, a statement of expected duration of and expenses for such treatment.

(4) If you claim a loss of time from employment, a written statement from your employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether you are a full or part-time employee, and wages or salary you actually lost.

(5) If you claim a loss of income and are self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings you actually lost. For example, we may use income tax returns for several years prior to the injury in question and the year in which the injury occurred to indicate or measure lost income. A statement of how much it cost you to hire someone to do the same work you were doing at the time of the injury might also be used in measuring lost income.

(6) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
