
# Title 20 - Employees' Benefits
## Chapter III - Social Security Administration
### PART 429 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND RELATED STATUTES
#### Subpart A - Claims Against the Government Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
##### ยง 429.104 What evidence do I need to submit with my claim?
###### Claim based on death.

(c)To support the claim, we need the following evidence or information:

(1) An authenticated death certificate or other believable documentation showing cause of death, date of death, and age at the time of death.

(2) The decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of last employment or occupation.

(3) Full names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent upon the decedent for support at the time of death.

(4) Degree of support the decedent provided to each survivor dependent on the decedent for support at the time of death.

(5) The decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.

(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payments for such expenses.

(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.

(8) Any other evidence or information that may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the damages claimed.
