
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 586 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE - COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AND HOMELESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 586.20 Overview of the process.
####### Responsibilities of the LRA.

(c)The LRA should begin to conduct outreach efforts with respect to the installation as soon as is practicable after the date of approval of closure/realignment of the installation. The local reuse planning process must begin no later than the date of the Military Department'spublication of available property described at ยง 586.20(b). For those installations that began the process described in this part prior to August 17, 1995, HUD will, on a case by case basis, determine whether the statutory requirements have been fulfilled and whether any additional requirements listed in this part should be required. Upon thepublication described in ยง 586.20(b), the LRA shall:

(1) Publish, within 30 days, in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation, the time period during which the LRA will receive notices of interest from State and local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties. This publication shall include the name, address, telephone number and the point of contact for the LRA who can provide information on the prescribed form and contents of the notices of interest. The LRA shall notify DoD of the deadline specified for receipt of notices of interest. LRAs are strongly encouraged to make this publication as soon as possible within the permissible 30 day period in order to expedite the closure process.
