
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VII - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs)
#### PART 700 - CONGREGATE HOUSING SERVICES PROGRAM
##### ยง 700.145 Cost distribution.
###### Eligible matching funds.

(c)(1) All sources of matching funds must be directly related to the types of supportive services prescribed by the PAC or used for administration of CHSP.

(2) Matching funds may include:

(i) Cash (which may include funds from Federal, State and local governments, third party contributions, available payments authorized under Medicaid for specific individuals in CHSP, Community Development Block Grants or Community Services Block Grants, Older American Act programs or excess residual funds with the approval of the Secretary concerned),

(ii) The imputed dollar value of other agency or third party-provided direct services or staff who will work with or provide services to program participants; these services must be justified in the application to assure that they are the new or expanded services of CHSP necessary to keep the program participants independent. If services are provided by the state, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor, IHA, PHA, or for-profit or not-for-profit owner, any salary paid to staff from governmental sources to carry out the program of the grantee and any funds paid to residents employed by the Program (other than from amounts under a contract under section 700.155) is allowable match.

(iii) In-kind items (these are limited to 10 percent of the 50 percent matching amount), such as the current market value of donated common or office space, utility costs, furniture, material, supplies, equipment and food used in direct provision of services. The applicant must provide an explanation for the estimated donated value of any item listed.

(iv) The value of services performed by volunteers to CHSP, at the rate of $5.00 an hour.
