
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VII - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs)
#### PART 761 - DRUG ELIMINATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Grant Funding
###### ยง 761.13 Amount of funding.
####### Calculation of number of units.

(ii)For purposes of determining the number of units counted for purposes of the PHDEP formula, HUD shall count as one unit each existing rental and Section 23 bond-financed unit under the ACC. Units that are added to a PHA's inventory will be added to the overall unit count so long as the units are under ACC amendment and have reached DOFA by the date HUD establishes for the Federal Fiscal Year in which the PHDEP formula is being run (hereafter called the "reporting date"). Any such increase in units shall result in an adjustment upwards in the number of units under the PHDEP formula. New units reaching DOFA after this date will be counted for PHDEP formula purposes as of the following Federal Fiscal Year. Federalized units that are eligible for operating subsidy will be counted for PHDEP formula purposes based on the unit count reflected on the PHA's most recently approved Operating Budget (Form HUD-52564) and/or subsidy calculation (Form HUD-52723), or successor form submitted for that program. Units approved for demolition/disposition continue to be counted for PHDEP formula funding purposes until actual demolition/disposition of the unit.
