
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VII - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs)
#### PART 761 - DRUG ELIMINATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Grant Funding
###### § 761.13 Amount of funding.
####### Adjustments to funding.

(3)The amount of funding made available each FFY to an applicant in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section may be adjusted as follows:

(i) An applicant must submit a PHDEP plan that meets the requirements of § 761.21, as required by § 761.15(a)(5), each FFY year to receive that FFY's funding. An applicant that does not submit a PHDEP plan for a FFY as required will not receive that FFY's funding.

(ii) Ineligible activities, described at § 761.17(b), are not eligible for funding. Activities proposed for funding in an applicant's PHDEP plan that are determined to be ineligible will not be funded, and the applicant's funding for that FFY may be reduced accordingly.

(iii) In accordance with § 761.15(a)(6), an applicant that does not meet the performance requirements of § 761.23 will be subject to the sanctions listed in § 761.30(f)(2).

(iv) Both the amount of and continuing eligibility for funding is subject to the sanctions in § 761.30(f).

(v) Any amounts that become available because of adjustments to an applicant's funding will be distributed to every other applicant that qualifies for funding in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
