
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VII - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs)
#### PART 761 - DRUG ELIMINATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Grant Funding
###### ยง 761.17 Eligible and ineligible activities for funding.
####### Voluntary tenant patrols,

(5)as provided in 42 U.S.C. 11903(a)(5). For purposes of PHDEP, the following provisions in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iv) of this section apply:

(i) The provision of training, communications equipment, and other related equipment (including uniforms), for use by voluntary tenant patrols acting in cooperation with officials of local law enforcement agencies is permitted. Grantees are required to obtain liability insurance to protect themselves and the members of the voluntary tenant patrol against potential liability for the activities of the patrol. The cost of this insurance will be considered an eligible program expense.

(ii) The applicant, the members of the tenant patrol and, only if the local law enforcement agency is receiving any PHDEP funds from the applicant, the local law enforcement agency, are required, before putting the tenant patrol into effect, to enter into and execute a written agreement that describes the following:

(A) The nature of the activities to be performed by the tenant patrol, the patrol's scope of authority, and how the patrol will coordinate its activities with the local law enforcement agency;

(B) The types of activities that a tenant patrol is expressly prohibited from undertaking, to include but not limited to, the carrying or use of firearms or other weapons, nightsticks, clubs, handcuffs, or mace in the course of their duties under this program;

(C) The type of initial tenant patrol training and continuing training the members receive from the local law enforcement agency (training by the local law enforcement agency is required before putting the tenant patrol into effect).

(iii) Tenant patrol members must be advised that they may be subject to individual or collective liability for any actions undertaken outside the scope of their authority and that such acts are not covered under a HA's or RMC's liability insurance.

(iv) Grant funds may not be used for any type of financial compensation for voluntary tenant patrol participants. However, the use of program funds for a grant coordinator for volunteer tenant foot patrols is permitted.
