
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VII - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs)
#### PART 761 - DRUG ELIMINATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Grant Administration
###### ยง 761.40 Other Federal requirements.
####### et seq.

(A) For laborers and mechanics employed in the program, the wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a) to be prevailing in the locality with respect to such trades;

(B) For laborers and mechanics employed in carrying out nonroutine maintenance in the program, the HUD-determined prevailing wage rate. As used in paragraph (a) of this section, nonroutine maintenance means work items that ordinarily would be performed on a regular basis in the course of upkeep of a property, but have become substantial in scope because they have been put off, and that involve expenditures that would otherwise materially distort the level trend of maintenance expenses. Nonroutine maintenance may include replacement of equipment and materials rendered unsatisfactory because of normal wear and tear by items of substantially the same kind. Work that constitutes reconstruction, a substantial improvement in the quality or kind of original equipment and materials, or remodeling that alters the nature or type of housing units is not nonroutine maintenance.

(ii) The employment of laborers and mechanics is subject to the provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-333).

(2) The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to labor contributed under the following circumstances:

(i) Upon the request of any resident management corporation, HUD may, subject to applicable collective bargaining agreements, permit residents (for purposes of the Public Housing Program, residents of a program managed by the resident management corporation) to volunteer a portion of their labor.

(ii) An individual may volunteer to perform services if:

(A) The individual does not receive compensation for the voluntary services, or is paid expenses, reasonable benefits, or a nominal fee for voluntary services; and

(B) Is not otherwise employed at any time in the work subject to paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) or (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
