
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VII - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs)
#### PART 791 - ALLOCATIONS OF HOUSING ASSISTANCE FUNDS
##### Subpart D - Allocation of Budget Authority for Housing Assistance
###### ยง 791.402 Determination of low-income housing needs.
####### Other objectively measurable conditions.

(6)Data indicating potential need for rental housing assistance, such as the number of renter households with incomes below specified levels and paying a gross rent of more than 30 percent of household income.

(c) For the section 202 elderly program, the data used shall reflect relevant characteristics of the elderly population. The data shall use the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(1) and (6) of this section, as modified to apply specifically to the needs of the elderly population.

(d) Based on the criteria in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research shall establish housing needs factors for each county and independent city in the field office jurisdiction, and shall aggregate the factors for such jurisdiction. The field office total for each factor is then divided by the respective national total for that factor. The resulting housing needs ratios under paragraph (b) of this section are then weighted to provide housing needs percentages for each field office, using the following weights: population-20 percent; poverty-20 percent; housing overcrowding-10 percent; housing vacancies-10 percent; substandard housing-20 percent; other objectively measurable conditions-20 percent. For the section 202 elderly program, the two criteria described in paragraph (c) of this section are weighted equally.

(e) The Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research shall adjust the housing needs percentages derived in paragraph (d) of this section to reflect the relative cost of providing housing among the field office jurisdictions.
