
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 811 - TAX EXEMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLIC HOUSING AGENCIES AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
##### ยง 811.108 Debt service reserve.
###### FHA-Insured projects.

(a)(1) The debt service reserve shall be invested and the income used to pay principal and interest on that portion of the obligations which is attributable to the funding of the debt service reserve. Any excess investment income shall be added to the debt service reserve. In the event such investment income is insufficient, surplus cash or residual receipts, to the extent approved by the field office, may be used to pay such principal and interest costs.

(2) The debt service reserve and its investment income shall be available only for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the obligations. The use of the debt service reserve for this purpose shall not be a cure for any failure by the owner to make required payments.

(3) Upon full payment of the principal and interest on the obligations (including that portion of the obligations attributable to the funding of the debt service reserve), any funds remaining in the debt service reserve shall be remitted to HUD.
