
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 811 - TAX EXEMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLIC HOUSING AGENCIES AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
##### ยง 811.104 Approval of Public Housing Agencies (other than agency or instrumentality PHAS).

(a)(1) An application to the field office for approval as a Public Housing Agency, other than an agency or instrumentality PHA, for purposes of this subpart shall be supported by evidence satisfactory to HUD to establish that:

(i) The applicant is a PHA as defined in this subpart, and has the legal authority to meet the requirements of this subpart and applicable Section 8 regulations, as described in its application. This evidence shall be supported by the opinion of counsel for the applicant.

(ii) The applicant has or will have the administrative capability to carry out the responsibilities described in its application.

(2) The evidence shall include any facts or documents relevant to the determinations required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, including identification of any pending application the applicant has submitted under the Act. In the absence of evidence indicating the applicant may not be qualified, the field office may accept as satisfactory evidence:

(i) Identification of any previous HUD approval of the applicant as a PHA pursuant to this section;

(ii) Identification of any prior ACC with the applicant under the Act; or

(iii) A statement, where applicable, that the applicant is an approved participating agency under 24 CFR Part 883 (State Housing Finance and Development Agencies).

(b) The applicant shall receive no compensation in connection with the financing of a project, except for its expenses. Such expenses shall be subject to approval by HUD in determining the development cost, cost of issuance and servicing fee, as appropriate. Should the applicant receive any compensation in excess of such expenses, the excess is to be placed in the debt service reserve.

(c) Where the applicant acts as the financing agency, the applicant shall be required to furnish to HUD an audit by an independent public accountant of its books and records in connection with the financing of the project within 90 days after the execution of the contract or final endorsement and at least biennially thereafter.

(d) Any subsequent amendments to the documents submitted to HUD pursuant to this section must be approved by HUD.
