
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 15 - PUBLIC ACCESS TO HUD RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND TESTIMONY AND PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION BY HUD EMPLOYEES
#### Subpart B - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the FOIA
##### ยง 15.101 Proactive disclosures of department records.
###### http://www.data.gov.

(2) Public access to high-value, machine readable datasets via

(3) Statements of policy and interpretation, including:

(i) HUD's Client and Information Policy Systems (HUDCLIPS);

(ii) Housing policy;

(iii) Public and Indian Housing policy and regulations;

(iv) Public and Indian Housing policy and guidance (PHA Plans); and

(v) Community Planning and Development policy and guidance.

(4) Administrative staff manuals.

(5) HUD's online library.

(6) Fair housing information.

(7) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format that have been released to any person under ยง 15.105; and

(i) Because of the nature of their subject matter, the agency determines that the records have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; or

(ii) Have been requested three or more times.

(8) Report for the preceding fiscal year submitted to the U.S. Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) as required by 5 U.S.C. 552(e) and the raw statistical data used in each report. This report will be made available:

(i) Without charge, license, or registration requirement;

(ii) In an aggregated, searchable format; and

(iii) In a format that may be downloaded in bulk.
