
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 850 - HOUSING DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
##### Subpart F - Project Management
###### ยง 850.151 Project restrictions.
####### Low-income unit rent.

(e)(1) Section 17(d)(8)(A) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 prohibits the rents for low-income units from exceeding "30 per centum of the adjusted income of a family whose income equals 50 per centum of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary with adjustments for smaller and larger families." This paragraph describes how these maximum rent determinations are made.

(2) The maximum rents that may be charged for low-income units are based on the size of the unit by number of bedrooms, and are calculated in accordance with the following procedure. For each unit size, HUD will provide the Section 8 very low-income limits. HUD will also provide income adjustments for each unit size, consistent with 24 CFR part 813. An adjusted income amount for each unit size is calculated by the owner or grantee by subtracting the income adjustment from the Section 8 limit. The adjusted income amount is multiplied by 30 percent and divided by 12 to obtain the maximum monthly gross rent for each low-income unit. A monthly allowance for the utilities and services (excluding telephone) to be paid by the tenant is subtracted from the maximum monthly gross rent to obtain the maximum monthly rent that may be charged for low-income units. Information to be provided by HUD will be available from the responsible HUD Field Office.

(3) The initial monthly allowance for utilities and services to be paid by the tenant must be approved by HUD. Subsequent calculations of this allowance must be approved by the grantee in connection with its review and approval of rent schedules under paragraph (e)(4) of this section. The maximum monthly rent must be recalculated annually, and may change as changes in the Section 8 very low-income limit, the income adjustments, or the monthly allowance for utilities and services warrant.

(4) The grantee must review and approve any schedule of rents proposed by the owner for low-income units. Any schedule submitted by an owner within the permissible maximum will be deemed approved, unless the grantee informs the owner, within 60 days after receiving the schedule, that it is disapproved.

(5) Any increase in rents for low-income units is subject to the provisions of outstanding leases, in any event, the owner must provide tenants of those units not less than 30 days prior written notice before implementing any increase in rents.
