
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 880 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart B - Definitions and Other Requirements
###### ยง 880.205 Limitation on distributions.

(a) Non-profit owners are not entitled to distributions of project funds.

(b) For the life of the Contract, project funds may only be distributed to profit-motivated owners at the end of each fiscal year of project operation following the effective date of the Contract after all project expenses have been paid, or funds have been set aside for payment, and all reserve requirements have been met. The first year's distribution may not be made until cost certification, where applicable, is completed. Distributions may not exceed the following maximum returns:

(1) For projects for elderly families, the first year's distribution will be limited to 6 percent on equity. The Assistant Secretary may provide for increases in subsequent years' distributions on an annual or other basis so that the permitted return reflects a 6 percent return on the value in subsequent years, as determined by HUD, of the approved initial equity. Any such adjustment will be made by Notice in the

(2) For projects for non-elderly families, the first year's distribution will be limited to 10 percent on equity. The Assistant Secretary may provide for increases in subsequent years' distributions on an annual or other basis so that the permitted return reflects a 10 percent return on the value in subsequent years, as determined by HUD, of the approved initial equity. Any such adjustment will be made by Notice in the

(c) For the purpose of determining the allowable distribution, an owner's equity investment in a project is deemed to be 10 percent of the replacement cost of the part of the project attributable to dwelling use accepted by HUD at cost certification (see ยง 880.405) unless the owner justifies a higher equity contribution by cost certification documentation in accordance with HUD mortgage insurance procedures.

(d) Any short-fall in return may be made up from surplus project funds in future years.

(e) If HUD determines at any time that project funds are more than the amount needed for project operations, reserve requirements and permitted distribution, HUD may require the excess to be placed in an account to be used to reduce housing assistance payments or for other project purposes. Upon termination of the Contract, any excess funds must be remitted to HUD.

(f) Owners of small projects or partially-assisted projects are exempt from the limitation on distributions contained in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(g) In the case of HUD-insured projects, the provisions of this section will apply instead of the otherwise applicable mortgage insurance program provisions.

(h) HUD may permit increased distributions of surplus cash, in excess of the amounts otherwise permitted, to profit-motivated owners who participate in a HUD-approved initiative or program to preserve below-market housing stock. The increased distributions will be limited to a maximum amount based on market rents and calculated according to HUD instructions. Funds that the owner is authorized to retain under section 236(g)(2) of the National Housing Act are not considered distributions to the owner.

(i) Any State or local law or regulation that restricts distributions to an amount lower than permitted by this section or permitted by the Commissioner under this paragraph (i) is preempted to the extent provided by section 524(f) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997.
