
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 15 - PUBLIC ACCESS TO HUD RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND TESTIMONY AND PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION BY HUD EMPLOYEES
#### Subpart B - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the FOIA
##### ยง 15.102 Requirements for making requests for records.
###### Form of requests.

(d)FOIA requests should:

(1) Be in writing and clearly identifiable as a FOIA request. To facilitate identification, the requester should place the phrase "FOIA Request" on the front of the envelope or on the cover sheet or other transmittal document used when submitting the request in person or by mail, email, facsimile, or electronic request form;

(2) Include, whenever possible, detailed and specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. The more specific the FOIA request for records, the more likely HUD officials will be able to locate the records requested. Requests for categories of information should be for specific and well-defined categories. Insufficient descriptions may lead HUD officials to contact the requester to seek additional information for their record search;

(3) Indicate the form or format in which the requester would like the record made available, if the requester has a preference;

(4) Specify the fee amount the requester is willing to pay. In general, HUD provides records at no cost up to $25. Requesters are required to agree to pay for any costs that exceed $25. Requesters may also request a dollar amount above which HUD should consult with them before they agree to pay the fee. If a requester seeks a fee waiver or reduction, the requester should include this request with the FOIA disclosure request and should describe, consistent with ยง 15.106(k), how the disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester;

(5) Indicate the fee category that the requester believes applies to each of his or her requests (fee categories are defined in ยง 15.106(b));

(6) Include verification information of the requester's identity, if the requester requests agency records pertaining to the requester, a minor, or an individual who is legally incompetent. Information about what constitutes acceptable verification information can be found in HUD's Privacy Act regulations in 24 CFR part 16;

(7) Contain signed authorization from the other person, if the requester makes a request on another person's behalf for information about that person. If necessary, HUD will inform the requester of the authorization needed from the other person and give the requester an opportunity to provide such authorization. Requests for information about another person should be accompanied by either written, notarized authorization or proof that the individual is deceased (for example, a copy of a death certificate or an obituary), or the request will be deemed insufficient; and

(8) Contain a detailed explanation of the basis for the request, if the requester makes a request for expedited processing as provided by ยง 15.104(c). The requester should also include a statement certifying the truth of the circumstances alleged or other evidence, acceptable to HUD, of the requester's compelling need.
