
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 880 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Management
###### § 880.601 Responsibilities of owner.
####### Use of project funds.

(e)(1) Project funds must be used for the benefit of the project, to make required deposits to the replacement reserve in accordance with § 880.602 and to provide distributions to the owner as provided in § 880.205, § 881.205 of this chapter, or § 883.306 of this chapter, as appropriate.

(2) For this part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects:

(i) Any remaining project funds must be deposited with the mortgagee or other HUD-approved depository in an interest-bearing residual receipts account. Withdrawals from this account will be made only for project purposes and with the approval of HUD.

(ii) Partially-assisted projects are exempt from the provisions of this section.

(iii) In the case of HUD-insured projects, the provisions of this paragraph (e) will apply instead of the otherwise applicable mortgage insurance provisions.

(3) For 24 CFR part 883 projects:

(i) Any remaining project funds must be deposited with the Agency, other mortgagee or other Agency-approved depository in an interest-bearing account. Withdrawals from this account may be made only for project purposes and with the approval of the Agency.

(ii) In the case of HUD-insured projects, the provisions of this paragraph will apply instead of the otherwise applicable mortgage insurance provisions, except in the case of partially-assisted projects which are subject to the applicable mortgage insurance provisions.
