
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 880 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Management
###### ยง 880.602 Replacement reserve.
####### Part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects.

(1)(i) For this part 880 and 24 CFR part 811 projects, an amount equivalent to .006 of the cost of total structures, including main buildings, accessory buildings, garages and other buildings, or any higher rate as required by HUD from time to time, will be deposited in the replacement reserve annually. This amount will be adjusted each year by the amount of the automatic annual adjustment factor.

(ii) The reserve must be built up to and maintained at a level determined by HUD to be sufficient to meet projected requirements. Should the reserve achieve that level, the rate of deposit to the reserve may be reduced with the approval of HUD.

(iii) All earnings including interest on the reserve must be added to the reserve.

(iv) Funds will be held by the mortgagee or trustee for bondholders, and may be drawn from the reserve and used only in accordance with HUD guidelines and with the approval of, or as directed by, HUD.

(v) Partially-assisted part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects are exempt from the provisions of this section.
