
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 880 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Management
###### ยง 880.608 Security deposits.

(a) At the time of the initial execution of the lease, the owner will require each family to pay a security deposit in an amount equal to one month's Total Tenant Payment or $50, whichever is greater. The family is expected to pay the security deposit from its own resources and/or other public sources. The owner may collect the security deposit on an installment basis.

(b) The owner must place the security deposits in a segregated, interest-bearing account. The balance of this account must at all times be equal to the total amount collected from the families then in occupancy, plus any accrued interest. The owner must comply with any applicable State and local laws concerning interest payments on security deposits.

(c) In order to be considered for the return of the security deposit, a family which vacates its unit will provide the owner with its forwarding address or arrange to pick up the refund.

(d) The owner, subject to State and local law and the requirements of this paragraph, may use the security deposit, plus any accrued interest, as reimbursement for any unpaid family contribution or other amount which the family owes under the lease. Within 30 days (or shorter time if required by State, or local law) after receiving notification of the family's forwarding address, the owner must:

(1) Refund to a family owing no rent or other amount under the lease the full amount of the security deposit, plus accrued interest;

(2) Provide to a family owing rent or other amount under the lease a list itemizing any unpaid rent, damages to the unit, and estimated costs for repair, along with a statement of the family's rights under State and local law. If the amount which the owner claims is owed by the family is less than the amount of the security deposit, plus accrued interest, the owner must refund the unused balance to the family. If the owner fails to provide the list, the family will be entitled to the refund of the full amount of the security deposit plus accrued interest.

(e) In the event a disagreement arises concerning reimbursement of the security deposit, the family will have the right to present objections to the owner in an informal meeting. The owner must keep a record of any disagreements and meetings in a tenant file for inspection by the contract administrator. The procedures of this paragraph do not preclude the family from exercising its rights under State and local law.

(f) If the security deposit, including any accrued interest, is insufficient to reimburse the owner for any unpaid tenant rent or other amount which the family owes under the lease, and the owner has provided the family with the list required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner may claim reimbursement from the contract administrator, as appropriate, for an amount not to exceed the lesser of:

(1) The amount owed the owner, or

(2) One month's contract rent, minus the amount of the security deposit plus accrued interest. Any reimbursement under this section will be applied first toward any unpaid tenant rent due under the lease. No reimbursement may be claimed for unpaid rent for the period after termination of the tenancy.
