
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 880 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Management
###### ยง 880.607 Termination of tenancy and modification of lease.
####### Termination notice.

(c)(1) The owner must give the family a written notice of any proposed termination of tenancy, stating the grounds and that the tenancy is terminated on a specified date and advising the family that it has an opportunity to respond to the owner.

(2) When a termination notice is issued for other good cause (paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section), the notice will be effective, and it will so state, at the end of a term and in accordance with the termination provisions of the lease, but in no case earlier than 30 days after receipt by the family of the notice. Where the termination notice is based on material noncompliance with the lease or material failure to carry out obligations under a State landlord and tenant act pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the time of service must be in accord with the lease and State law.

(3) In any judicial action instituted to evict the family, the owner may not rely on any grounds which are different from the reasons set forth in the notice.

(4) See 24 CFR part 5 for provisions related to termination of assistance because of failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, including informal hearing procedures and also for provisions concerning certain assistance for mixed families (families whose members include those with eligible immigration status, and those without eligible immigration status) in lieu of termination of assistance, and for provisions concerning deferral of termination of assistance.

(5) In actions or potential actions to terminate tenancy, the owner shall follow 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).

(6) In the case of failure to pay rent, if the Secretary determines that tenants must be provided with adequate notice to secure Federal funding that is available due to a Presidential declaration of a national emergency:

(i) The termination notice must provide such information as required by the Secretary; and

(ii) The notice must provide the tenant with at least 30 days before termination.
