
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 881 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION
##### Subpart A - Summary and Applicability
###### ยง 881.104 Applicability of part 881.

(a) Part 881, in effect as of February 20, 1980, applies to all proposals for which a notification of selection was not issued before the February 20, 1980 effective date of part 881. (See 24 CFR part 881, revised as of April 1, 1980). Where a notification of selection was issued for a proposal before the February 20, 1980, effective date, part 881 in effect as of February 20, 1980 applies if the owner notified HUD within 60 calendar days that the owner wished the provisions of part 881, effective February 20, 1980, to apply and promptly brought the proposal into conformance.

(b) Subparts E (Housing Assistance Payments Contract) and F (Management) of this part apply to all projects for which an Agreement was not executed before the February 20, 1980, effective date of part 881. Where an Agreement was so executed:

(1) The owner and HUD may agree to make the revised subpart E of this part applicable and to execute appropriate amendments to the Agreement and/or Contract.

(2) The owner and HUD may agree to make the revised subpart F of this part applicable (with or without the limitation on distributions) and to execute appropriate amendments to the Agreement and/or Contract.

(c) Section 881.607 (Termination of tenancy and modification of leases) applies to all families.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the provisions of 24 CFR part 5 apply to all projects, regardless of when an Agreement was executed.
