
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability, Scope and Basic Policies
###### ยง 882.123 Conversion of Section 23 Units to Section 8 and Section 23 monitoring.
####### Request for rent increases.

(h)An owner may submit to the PHA a request for rent increase because of increases in operating cost, when the rents to the owner, after adjustments based on provisions in the lease, are insufficient to provide decent, safe and sanitary housing. Such a request shall be supported by an audited financial statement, and the data shall clearly show that failure to obtain additional revenue will result in deterioriation of units and loss of decent, safe and sanitary housing for low-income families. The PHA shall inspect the units to determine whether the units are decent, safe and sanitary. Where the need for an adjustment under this paragraph is shown:

(1) Subject to available contract authority and prior approval by the HUD Field Office, the PHA may grant an adjustment to the extent documented and justified for those items of expenses (excluding debt service) for which the owner is responsible under the lease.

(2) The amount of the adjustment must be reasonable when compared with similar items under the Section 8 Existing Housing program.

(3) The adjusted amount for expenses shall not exceed the result of applying the appropriate Section 8 Existing Housing Annual Adjustment Factor (24 CFR part 888) most recently published by HUD in theto the appropriate expense base in effect under the lease prior to this adjustment.

(4) The adjustment shall not be retroactive to pay for costs that the owner had previously incurred.

(5) The adjustment shall be effective for a period not to exceed one year.
