
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Applicability, Scope and Basic Policies
###### ยง 882.123 Conversion of Section 23 Units to Section 8 and Section 23 monitoring.
####### Section 23 policies for units planned for conversion on or before September 30, 1981.

(e)(1) PHAs shall not enter into new leases with owners for additional units nor shall they renew or extend leases with owners except consistent with the conversion schedules.

(2) Subject to the rights of families under existing leases, PHAs may continue to lease units to families under Section 23 only on a month-to-month basis.

(3) PHAs shall conduct annual inspections of all units to determine whether the units are decent, safe and sanitary.

(4) PHAs shall certify with their requisitions to HUD for payments under the ACC that the units are decent, safe and sanitary, or the PHA shall furnish HUD with a report of the nature of the deficiencies of the units which are not so certified. If an owner's units are not decent, safe and sanitary.

(i) Where the owner is responsible under the terms of the lease for correcting the deficiencies, the PHA shall send the owner written notification requiring the owner to take specified corrective action within a specified time. The notification shall also state that, if the owner fails to comply, rent payments will be suspended. If the owner fails to comply with the first notification, he shall be notified by the PHA of the noncompliance and rent payments shall be suspended immediately. In the event of such suspension of rent payments, the PHA shall requisition a correspondingly lower ACC payment.

(ii) Where the PHA is responsible under the terms of the lease for correcting the deficiencies, the Field Office shall send written notification requiring the PHA to take specified corrective action within a specified time. The notification shall also state that, if the PHA fails to comply, HUD will make reduced payments to the PHA only in the amount of the rent due the owner. If the PHA fails to comply with the first notification, the PHA shall be notified of the noncompliance, and the PHA shall not receive any fees for performing management functions until the PHA has complied with the Field Office request and has corrected the noted deficiencies.

(f) [Reserved]
