
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Basic Policies
###### ยง 882.408 Initial contract rents.
####### Determination Initial Contract Rents.

(c)(1) The initial Contract Rent and base rent for each unit must be computed in accordance with HUD requirements. These amounts may be determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(2), or in accordance with an alternative method prescribed by HUD. However, the initial Contract Rent may in no event be more than-

(i) The Moderate Rehabilitation Fair Market Rent or exception rent applicable to the unit on the date that the Agreement is executed, minus

(ii) Any applicable allowance for utilities and other services attributable to the unit.

(2) When the initial Contract Rent is computed under this paragraph, the rent will be equal to the base rent plus the monthly cost of a rehabilitation loan (but not more than the maximum stated in paragraph (c)(1)). The base rent must be calculated using the rent charged for the unit or the estimated costs to the Owner of owning, managing and maintaining the rehabilitated unit. The monthly cost of a rehabilitation loan must be calculated using:

(i) The actual interest rate on the portion of the rehabilitation costs borrowed by the Owner,

(ii) The HUD-FHA maximum interest rate for multifamily housing (or another rate prescribed by HUD) for rehabilitation costs paid by the Owner out of nonborrowed funds, and

(iii) At least a 15 year loan term, except that if the total amount of rehabilitation is less than $15,000, the actual loan term will be used for the portion of the rehabilitation costs borrowed by the Owner. (HUD Field Offices may authorize loan terms which differ from the above in accordance with HUD requirements.)
