
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Basic Policies
###### ยง 882.410 Rent adjustments.
####### Annual and special adjustments.

(a)Contract Rents will be adjusted as provided in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section upon submittal to the PHA by the Owner of a revised schedule of Contract Rents, provided that the unit is in decent, safe, and sanitary condition and that the Owner is otherwise in compliance with the terms of the Lease and Contract. Subject to the foregoing, adjustments of Contract Rents will be as follows:

(1) The Annual Adjustment Factors which are published annually by HUD (see Schedule C, 24 CFR part 888) will be utilized. On or after each annual anniversary date of the Contract, the Contract Rents may be adjusted in accordance with HUD procedures, effective for the month following the submittal by the Owner of a revised schedule of Contract Rents. The changes in rent as a result of the adjustment cannot exceed the amount established by multiplying the Annual Adjustment Factor by the base rents. However, if the amounts borrowed to finance the rehabilitation costs or to finance purchase of the property are subject to a variable rate or are otherwise renegotiable, Contract Rents may be adjusted in accordance with other procedures as prescribed by HUD, and specified in the Contract, provided that the adjusted Contract Rents cannot exceed the rents established by multiplying the Annual Adjustment Factor by the Contract Rents. Adjusted Contract Rents must then be examined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and may be adjusted accordingly. Contract Rents may be adjusted upward or downward, as may be appropriate.
