
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Basic Policies
###### ยง 882.411 Payments for vacancies.
####### Vacancies after initial occupancy.

(b)(1) If an Eligible Family vacates its unit (other than as a result of action by the Owner which is in violation of the Lease or the Contract or any applicable law), the Owner may receive the housing assistance payments due under the Contract for so much of the month in which the Family vacates the unit as the unit remains vacant. Should the unit continue to remain vacant, the Owner may receive from the PHA a housing assistance payment in the amount of 80 percent of the Contract Rent for a vacancy period not exceeding an additional month. However, if the Owner collects any of the Family's share of the rent for this period, the payment must be reduced to an amount which, when added to the Family's payment, does not exceed 80 percent of the Contract Rent. Any such excess must be reimbursed by the Owner to the PHA. The Owner will not be entitled to any payment under this paragraph (b)(1) of this section unless the Owner:

(i) Immediately upon learning of the vacancy, has notified the PHA of the vacancy or prospective vacancy, and

(ii) has taken and continues to take all feasible actions specified in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section.

(2) If the Owner evicts an Eligible Family, the Owner will not be entitled to any payment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section unless the PHA determines that the Owner complied with all requirements of the Contract.
