
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Basic Policies
###### ยง 882.408 Initial contract rents.
####### Changes in Initial Contract Rents during rehabilitation.

(d)(1) The initial Contract Rents established pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section will be the Contract Rents on the effective date of the Contract except under the following circumstances:

(i) When, during rehabilitation, work items (including substantial and necessary design changes) which (A) could not reasonably have been anticipated or are necessitated by a change in local codes or ordinances, and (B) were not listed in the work write-up prepared or approved by the PHA, are subsequently required and approved by the PHA.

(ii) When the actual cost of the rehabilitation performed is less than that estimated in the calculation of Contract Rents for the Agreement or the actual, certified costs are more than estimated due to unforeseen factors beyond the owner's control (e.g., strikes, weather delays or unexpected delays caused by local governments).

(iii) When the PHA (or HUD) approves changes in financing.

(iv) When the actual relocation payments made by the Owner to temporarily relocated Families varies from the cost estimated in the calculation of Contract Rents for the Agreement.

(v) When necessary to correct errors in computation of the base and Contract Rents to comply with the HUD requirements.

(2) Should changes occur as specified in paragraph (d)(1) (either an increase or decrease), the PHA will approve any necessary change in work and amendment of the work write-up and cost estimate, recalculate the initial Contract Rents in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and amend the Contract or Agreement, as appropriate, to reflect the revised rents.

(3) In establishing the revised Contract Rents, the PHA must determine that the resulting Gross Rents do not exceed the Moderate Rehabilitation Fair Market Rent or the exception rent in effect at the time of execution of the Agreement. The Fair Market Rent or exception rent, as appropriate, may only be exceeded when the PHA determines in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section that it will be necessary for the revised Gross Rent to exceed the Moderate Rehabilitation Fair Market Rent or exception rent. Should this determination be made, the PHA may not execute a revised Agreement or Contract for Gross Rents exceeding the Fair Market Rents by more than 10 percent until it receives HUD Field Office approval. The HUD Field Office may approve revised Gross Rents which exceed the Fair Market Rents by up to 20 percent for reasons specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section upon proper justification by the PHA of the necessity for the increase.
