
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Program Development and Operation
###### ยง 882.507 Completion of rehabilitation.
####### Acceptance.

(e)(1) If the PHA determines from the review and inspection that the unit(s) has been completed in accordance with the Agreement, the unit(s) will be accepted.

(2) If there are any items of delayed completion which are minor items or which are incomplete because of weather conditions, and in any case which do not preclude or affect occupancy, and all other requirements of the Agreement have been met, the unit(s) must be accepted. An escrow fund determined by the PHA to be sufficient to assure completion for items of delayed completion must be required, as well as a written agreement between the PHA and the Owner, to be included as an exhibit to the Contract, specifying the schedule for completion. If the items are not completed within the agreed time period, the PHA may terminate the Contract or exercise other rights under the Contract.

(3) If other deficiencies exist, the PHA must determine whether and to what extent the deficiencies are correctable, and whether the Contract Rents should be reduced. The Owner must be notified of the PHA's decision. If the corrections required by the PHA are possible, the PHA and the Owner must enter into an agreement for the correction of the deficiencies within a specified time. If the deficiencies are corrected within the agreed period of time, the PHA must accept the unit(s).

(4) Otherwise, the unit(s) may not be accepted, and the Owner must be notified with a statement of the reasons for nonacceptance.
