
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Program Development and Operation
###### ยง 882.511 Lease and termination of tenancy.
####### Notice of termination of tenancy.

(d)(1) The Owner must serve a written notice of termination of tenancy on the Family which states the date the tenancy shall terminate. Such date must be in accordance with the following:

(i) When termination is based on failure to pay rent, the date of termination must be not less than five working days after the Family's receipt of the notice; or, if the Secretary determines that tenants must be provided with adequate notice to secure Federal funding that is available due to a Presidential declaration of a national emergency, the date of termination must be not less than 30 days after the Family's receipt of the notice.

(ii) When termination is based on serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or on violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, the date of termination must be in accordance with State and local law.

(iii) When termination is based on other good cause, the date of termination must be no earlier than 30 days after the notice is served on the Family.

(2) The notice of termination must:

(i) State the reasons for such termination with enough specificity to enable the Family to prepare a defense.

(ii) Advise the Family that if a judicial proceeding for eviction is instituted, the tenant may present a defense in that proceeding.

(iii) Be served on the Family by sending a prepaid first class properly addressed letter (return receipt requested) to the tenant at the dwelling unit or by delivering a copy of the notice to the dwelling unit.

(iv) Include such information to tenants during a national emergency, as required by the Secretary.
