
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Program Development and Operation
###### ยง 882.515 Reexamination of family income and composition.
####### Regular reexaminations.

(a)The PHA must reexamine the income and composition of all families at least once every 12 months. After consultation with the family and upon verification of the information, the PHA must make appropriate adjustments in the Total Tenant Payment in accordance with part 813 of this chapter and determine whether the family's unit size is still appropriate (see ยง 882.213). The PHA must adjust Tenant Rent and the Housing Assistance Payment to reflect any change in Total Tenant Payment. At the time of the annual reexamination of family income and composition, the PHA must require the family to disclose and verify Social Security Numbers. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, see part 5, subpart B, of this title. At the first regular reexamination after June 19, 1995, the PHA shall follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 5 concerning obtaining and processing evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status of all family members. Thereafter, at each regular reexamination, the PHA shall follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 5 concerning verification of immigration status of any new family member.
