
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Special Procedures for Moderate Rehabilitation - Program Development and Operation
###### ยง 882.514 Family participation.
####### Owner selection of Families.

(c)All vacant units under Contract must be rented to Eligible Families referred by the PHA from its waiting list. However, if the PHA is unable to refer a sufficient number of interested applicants on the waiting list to the Owner within 30 days of the Owner's notification to the PHA of a vacancy, the Owner may advertise or solicit applications from Low-Income Families and refer such Families to the PHA to determine eligibility. Since the Owner is responsible for tenant selection, the Owner may refuse any family, provided that the Owner does not unlawfully discriminate. However, the owner must not deny program assistance or admission to an applicant based on the fact that the applicant is or has been a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, if the applicant otherwise qualifies for assistance or admission. Should the Owner reject a Family, and should the Family believe that the Owner's rejection was the result of unlawful discrimination, the Family may request the assistance of the PHA in resolving the issue. If the issue cannot be resolved promptly, the Family may file a complaint with HUD, and the PHA may refer the Family to the next available Moderate Rehabilitation unit.
