
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart H - Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy Program for Homeless Individuals
###### ยง 882.803 Project eligibility and other requirements.
####### Eligible and ineligible properties.

(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a) of this section, housing suitable for moderate rehabilitation is eligible for inclusion under this program. Existing structures of various types may be appropriate for this program, including single family houses and multifamily structures.

(2) Housing is not eligible for assistance under this program if it is receiving Federal funding for rental assistance or operating costs under other HUD programs.

(3) Nursing homes and related facilities such as intermediate care or board and care homes; units within the grounds of penal, reformatory, medical, mental, and similar public or private institutions; and facilities providing continual psychiatric, medical, or nursing services are not eligible for assistance under this program.

(4) No Section 8 assistance may be provided with respect to any unit occupied by an owner.

(5) Housing located in the Coastal Barrier Resources System designated under the Coastal Barriers Resources Act is not eligible.

(6) Single-sex facilities are allowable under this program, provided that the HA determines that because of the physical limitations or configuration of the facility, considerations of personal privacy require that the facility (or parts of the facility) be available only to members of a single sex.
