
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart H - Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy Program for Homeless Individuals
###### ยง 882.805 HA application process, ACC execution, and pre-rehabilitation activities.
####### Initial contract rents.

(d)Section 882.408 (Initial contract rents), including the establishment of fair market rents for SRO units at 75 percent of the O-bedroom Moderate Rehabilitation Fair Market Rent, applies to this program, except as follows:

(1)(i) In determining the monthly cost of a rehabilitation loan, in accordance with ยง 882.408(c)(2), a loan term of a least 10 years (instead of 15 years) may be used. The exception in ยง 882.408(c)(2)(iii) for using the actual loan term if the total amount of the rehabilitation is less than $15,000 continues to apply. In addition, the cost of the rehabilitation that may be included for the purpose of calculating the amount of the initial contract rent for any unit must not exceed the lower of:

(A) The projected cost of rehabilitation; or

(B) The per unit cost limitation that is established bynotice, plus the cost of the fire and safety improvements required by 24 CFR 982.605(b)(4). HUD may, however, increase the limitation in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section by an amount HUD determines is reasonable and necessary to accommodate special local conditions, including high construction costs or stringent fire or building codes. HUD will publish future cost limitation changes in thein the Notice of Funding Availability issued each year.

(ii) If the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) believes that high construction costs warrant an increase in the per unit cost limitation in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the HA must demonstrate to HUD's satisfaction that a higher average per unit amount is necessary to conduct this program, and that every appropriate step has been taken to contain the amount of the rehabilitation within the published per unit cost limitation established at that time, plus the cost of the required fire and safety improvements. These higher amounts will be determined as follows:

(A) HUD may approve a higher per unit amount up to, but not to exceed, an amount computed by multiplying the HUD-approved High Cost Percentage for Base Cities (used for computing FHA high cost area adjustments) for the area, by the current published cost limitation plus the cost of the required fire and safety improvements.

(B) HUD may, on a structure-by-structure basis, increase the level approved in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section to up to an amount computed by multiplying 2.4 by the current published cost limitation plus the cost of the required fire and safety improvements.

(2) In approving changes to initial contract rents during rehabilitation in accordance with ยง 882.408(d), the revised initial contract rents may not reflect an average per unit rehabilitation cost that exceeds the limitation specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) If the structure contains four or fewer SRO units, the Fair Market Rent for that size structure (the Fair Market Rent for a 1-, 2-, 3-, or 4-bedroom unit, as applicable) must be used to determine the Fair Market Rent limitation instead of using the separate Fair Market Rent for each SRO unit. To determine the Fair Market Rent limitation for each SRO unit, the Fair Market Rent for the structure must be apportioned equally to each SRO unit.

(4) Contract rents must not include the costs of providing supportive services, transportation, furniture, or other nonhousing costs, as determined by HUD. SRO program assistance may be used for efficiency units selected for rehabilitation under this program, but the gross rent (contract rent plus any Utility Allowance) for these units will be no higher than for SRO units (i.e., 75 percent of the 0-bedroom Moderate Rehabilitation Fair Market Rent).
