
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart H - Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy Program for Homeless Individuals
###### ยง 882.805 HA application process, ACC execution, and pre-rehabilitation activities.
####### ACC Execution.

(b)(1) Before execution of the annual contributions contract (ACC), the HA must submit to the appropriate HUD field office the following:

(i) Estimates of Required Annual Contributions, Forms HUD-52672 and HUD-52673;

(ii) Administrative Plan, which should include:

(A) Procedures for tenant outreach;

(B) A policy governing temporary relocation; and

(C) A mechanism to monitor the provision of supportive services.

(iii) Proposed Schedule of Allowances for Tenant-Furnished Utilities and Other Services, Form HUD-52667, with a justification of the amounts proposed;

(iv) If applicable, proposed variations to the acceptability criteria of the Housing Quality Standards (see ยง 882.803(b)); and

(v) The fire and building code applicable to each structure.

(2) After HUD has approved the HA's application, the review and comment requirements of 24 CFR part 791 have been complied with, and the HA has submitted (and HUD has approved) the items required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, HUD and the HA must execute the ACC in the form prescribed by HUD. The initial term of the ACC must be 11 years. This term allows one year to rehabilitate the units and place them under a 10-year HAP contract. The ACC must give HUD the option to renew the ACC for an additional 10 years.

(3) Section 882.403(a) (Maximum Total ACC Commitments) applies to this program.

(4) Section 882.403(b) (Project account) applies to this program.

(c)(1) If an owner is proposing to accomplish at least $3000 per unit of rehabilitation by including work to make the unit(s) accessible to a person with disabilities occupying the unit(s) or expected to occupy the unit(s), the PHA may approve such units not to exceed 5 percent of the units under its Program, provided that accessible units are necessary to meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 8, which implements section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The rehabilitation must make the unit(s), and access and egress to the unit(s), barrier-free with respect to the disability of the individual in residence or expected to be in residence.

(2) The PHA must take the applications and determine the eligibility of all tenants residing in the approved units who wish to apply for the Program. After eligibility of all the tenants has been determined, the Owner must be informed of any adjustment in the number of units to be assisted. In order to make the most efficient use of housing assistance funds, an Agreement may not be entered into covering any unit occupied by a family which is not eligible to receive housing assistance payments. Therefore, the number of units approved by the PHA for a particular proposal must be adjusted to exclude any unit(s) determined by the PHA to be occupied by a family not eligible to receive housing assistance payments. Eligible Families must also be briefed at this stage as to their rights and responsibilities under the Program.

(3) Should the Owner agree with the assessment of the PHA as to the work that must be accomplished, the preliminary feasibility of the proposal, and the number of units to be assisted, the Owner, with the assistance of the PHA where necessary, must prepare detailed work write-ups including specifications and plans (where necessary) so that a cost estimate may be prepared. The work write-up will describe how the deficiencies eligible for amortization through the Contract Rents are to be corrected including minimum acceptable levels of workmanship and materials. From this work write-up, the Owner, with the assistance of the PHA, must prepare a cost estimate for the accomplishment of all specified items.

(4) The owner is responsible for selecting a competent contractor to undertake the rehabilitation. The PHA must propose opportunities for minority contractors to participate in the program.

(5) The PHA must discuss with the Owner the various financing options available. The terms of the financing must be approved by the PHA in accordance with standards prescribed by HUD.

(6) Before execution of the Agreement, the HA must:

(i)(A) Inspect the structure to determine the specific work items that need to be accomplished to bring the units to be assisted up to the Housing Quality Standards (see ยง 882.803(b)) or other standards approved by HUD;

(B) Conduct a feasibility analysis, and determine whether cost-effective energy conserving improvements can be added;

(C) Ensure that the owner prepares the work write-ups and cost estimates required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section;

(D) Determine initial base rents and contract rents;

(ii) Assure that the owner has selected a contractor in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section;

(iii) After the financing and a contractor are obtained, determine whether the costs can be covered by initial contract rents, computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and, if a structure contains more than 50 units to be assisted, submit the base rent and contract rent calculations to the appropriate HUD field office for review and approval in sufficient time for execution of the Agreement in a timely manner;

(iv) Obtain firm commitments to provide necessary supportive services;

(v) Obtain firm commitments for other resources to be provided;

(vi) Determine that the $3,000 minimum amount of work requirement and other requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are met;

(vii) Determine eligibility of current tenants, and select the units to be assisted, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section;

(viii) Comply with the financing requirements in paragraph (c)(5) of this section;

(ix) Assure compliance with all other applicable requirements of this subpart; and

(x) If the HA determines that any structure proposed in its application is infeasible, or the HA proposes to select a different structure for any other reason, the HA must submit information for the proposed alternative structure to HUD for review and approval. HUD will rate the proposed structure in accordance with procedures in the applicable notice of funding availability. The HA may not proceed with processing for the proposed structure or execute an Agreement until HUD notifies the HA that HUD has approved the proposed alternative structure and that all requirements have been met.
