
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 883 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - STATE HOUSING AGENCIES
##### Subpart A - Summary and Guide
###### ยง 883.105 Applicability of part 883 in effect as of February 29, 1980.

(a) Part 883, in effect as of February 29, 1980, applies to projects for which the initial application was submitted on or after the February 29, 1980, effective date. (See 24 CFR part 883, revised as of April 1, 1980.) Projects for which applications or proposals were submitted before the February 29, 1980, effective date of part 883 have been processed under the part 883 regulations and procedures in effect at the date of submission. If, however, the agency notified HUD within 60 calendar days of the February 29, 1980, effective date of the part 883 regulations that they chose to have the provisions of part 883, in effect as of February 29, 1980, apply to a specific case, it must have promptly modified the application(s) and proposal(s) to comply.

(b) Subpart F of this part, dealing with the HAP contract and subpart G of this part, dealing with management, apply to all projects for which an Agreement was not executed before the February 29, 1980, effective date of part 883. In cases where an Agreement has been executed:

(1) The Agency, owner and HUD may agree to make the revised subpart F of this part applicable and execute appropriate amendments to the Agreement or Contract;

(2) The Agency, Owner and HUD may agree to make the revised subpart G of this part applicable (with or without the limitation on distributions) and execute appropriate amendments to the Agreement or Contract.

(c) Section 883.708, Termination of Tenancy and Modifications of Leases, applies to new families who begin occupancy or execute a lease on or after 30 days following the February 29, 1980, effective date of part 883. This section also applies to families not covered by the preceding sentence, including families currently under lease, who have a lease in which a renewal becomes effective on or after the 60th day following the February 29, 1980 effective date of part 883. A lease is considered renewed when both the landlord and the family fail to terminate a tenancy under a lease permitting either to terminate.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the provisions of 24 CFR part 5 (concerning preferences for selection of applicants) apply to all projects, regardless of when am Agreement was executed.
