
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 882 - SECTION 8 MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
##### Subpart H - Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy Program for Homeless Individuals
###### ยง 882.810 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
####### Responsibility of HA.

(f)(1) The HA must certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) that it will comply with the URA, the regulations in 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and must ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the HA to comply with these provisions.

(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs may be paid for with local public funds or funds available from other sources. The cost of HA advisory services for temporary relocation of tenants to be assisted under the program also may be paid from preliminary administrative funds.

(3) The HA must maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section. The HA must maintain data on the racial, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons.
