
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 883 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - STATE HOUSING AGENCIES
##### Subpart C - Definitions and Other Requirements
###### ยง 883.306 Limitation on distributions.

(a) Non-profit owners are not entitled to distributions of project funds.

(b) For the life of the Contract, project funds may only be distributed to profit-motivated owners at the end of each fiscal year of project operation following the effective date of the Contract and after all project expenses have been paid, or funds have been set aside for payment, and all reserve requirements have been met. The first year's distribution may not be made until the HFA certification of project costs, (See ยง 883.411), where applicable, has been submitted to HUD. The HFA must certify that distributions will not exceed the following maximum returns:

(1) For projects for elderly families, the first year's distribution will be limited to 6 percent on equity. The Assistant Secretary may provide for increases in subsequent years' distributions on an annual or other basis so that the permitted return reflects a 6 percent return on the value, in subsequent years, as determined in accordance with HUD guidelines, of the approved initial equity. Any such adjustments will be made in accordance with a Notice in theThe HFA may approve a lesser increase or no increase in subsequent years' distributions.

(2) For projects for non-elderly families the first year's distribution will be limited to 10 percent on equity. The Assistant Secretary may provide for increases in subsequent years' distributions on an annual or other basis so that the permitted return reflects a 10 percent return on the value, in subsequent years, as determined in accordance with HUD guidelines, of the approved initial equity. Any such adjustments will be made in accordance with a Notice in theThe HFA may approve a lesser increase or no increase in subsequent years' distributions.

(c) For the purpose of determining the allowable distribution, an owner's equity investment in a project is deemed to be 10 percent of the replacement cost of the part of the project attributable to dwelling use accepted by the HFA at cost certification (See ยง 883.411), or as specified in the Proposal where cost certification is not required, unless the owner justifies a higher equity contribution through cost certification documentation accepted by the HFA.

(d) Any short-fall in return may be made up from surplus project funds in future years.

(e) If the HFA determines at any time that surplus project funds are more than the amount needed for project operations, reserve requirements and permitted distributions, the HFA may require the excess to be placed in a separate account to be used to reduce housing assistance payments or for other project purposes. Upon termination of the Contract, any excess project funds must be remitted to HUD.

(f) Owners of small projects or partially assisted projects are exempt from the limitation on distributions contained in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(g) HUD may permit increased distributions of surplus, in excess of the amounts otherwise permitted, to profit-motivated owners who participate in a HUD-approved initiative or program to preserve below-market housing stock. The increased distributions will be limited to a maximum amount based on market rents and calculated according to HUD instructions. Funds that the owner is authorized to retain under section 236(g)(2) of the National Housing Act are not considered distributions to the owner.

(h) Any State or local law or regulation that restricts distributions to an amount lower than permitted by this section or permitted by the Commissioner under this paragraph (h) is preempted as provided by section 524(f) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997.
