
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 883 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - STATE HOUSING AGENCIES
##### Subpart C - Definitions and Other Requirements
###### ยง 883.307 Financing.
####### HUD approval.

(b)(1) A State Agency, prior to receiving HUD approval of its first New Construction or Substantial Rehabilitation Proposal using contract authority under this part, must submit copies of the documents relating to the method of financing Section 8 projects to HUD for review. These documents shall include bond resolutions or indentures, loan agreements, regulatory agreements, notes, mortgages or deeds of trust and other related documents, if any, but does not need to include the "official statement" or copies of the prospectus for individual bond issues. HUD review will be limited to making certain that the documents are not inconsistent with or in violation of these regulations and the administrative procedures used to implement them. After review, HUD must notify the Agency that the documents are acceptable or, if unacceptable, will request clarification or changes. This review and approval will meet the requirements of 24 CFR 811.107(a).

(2) When an Agency which has received HUD approval of its financing documents proposes substantive changes in them which affect the Section 8 program, the revised documents must be submitted for review. HUD review will be limited to the areas indicated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and must be carried out promptly. HUD will notify the Agency that the revised documents are acceptable, or, if unacceptable, will request clarification or changes.

(3) The review and approval of financing documents required under 24 CFR part 811 will constitute HUD approval under this section.

(4) The Agency must retain in its files, and make available for HUD inspection, the documentation relating to its financing of Section 8 projects, including any relating to the certifications of compliance with applicable Department of Treasury or HUD regulations (24 CFR part 811) regarding tax-exempt financing.
