
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 884 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM, NEW CONSTRUCTION SET-ASIDE FOR SECTION 515 RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROJECTS
##### Subpart A - Applicability, Scope and Basic Policies
###### ยง 884.106 Housing assistance payments to owners.
####### General.

(a)Housing Assistance Payments shall be paid to Owners for units under lease by eligible families, in accordance with the Contract and as provided in this section. These Housing Assistance Payments will cover the difference between the Contract Rent and the Tenant Rent. Where applicable, the Utility Reimbursement will be paid to the Family as an additional Housing Assistance Payment. The Contract will provide that the Owner will make this payment on behalf of the contract administrator. Funds will be paid to the Owner in trust solely for the purpose of making this additional payment. If the Family and the utility company consent, the Owner may pay the utility reimbursement jointly to the Family and the utility company or directly to the utility company. No Section 8 assistance may be provided for any unit occupied by an Owner; however, cooperatives are considered rental housing, rather than Owner-occupied housing, for this purpose.
