
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 884 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM, NEW CONSTRUCTION SET-ASIDE FOR SECTION 515 RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROJECTS
##### Subpart A - Applicability, Scope and Basic Policies
###### ยง 884.110 Types of housing and property standards.

(a) Newly constructed single-family houses and multifamily structures may be utilized in this program. Congregate housing may be developed for elderly, disabled, or handicapped Families and individuals. Except in the case of housing predominantly for the elderly, high-rise elevator projects for Families with children may not be utilized unless HUD determines there is no practical alternative.

(b) Participation in this program requires compliance with:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) In the case of congregate housing, the appropriate HUD guidelines and standards;

(3) HUD requirements pursuant to section 209 of the HCD Act for projects for the elderly, disabled, or handicapped;

(4) HUD requirements pertaining to noise abatement and control; and

(5) Applicable State and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations.

(c) Housing assisted under this part shall be modest in design. Amenities in projects assisted under this part (except partially assisted projects) will be limited to those amenities, as determined by HUD, which are generally provided in unassisted, decent, safe and sanitary housing for low-income families, in the market area. The use of more durable, high-quality materials to control or reduce maintenance, repair and replacement costs will not be considered an excess amenity.
