
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 884 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM, NEW CONSTRUCTION SET-ASIDE FOR SECTION 515 RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROJECTS
##### Subpart B - Project Development and Operation
###### ยง 884.216 Termination of tenancy.

(a) The owner is responsible for termination of tenancies, including evictions. However, conditions for payment of housing assistance payments for any resulting vacancies must be as set forth in ยง 884.106(c)(1). Failure of the family to sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, shall be grounds for termination of tenancy. For provisions requiring termination of assistance for failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, including the applicable informal requirements, see 24 CFR part 5 and also for provisions concerning assistance for mixed families (families whose members include those with eligible immigration status, and those without eligible immigration status) in lieu of termination of assistance, and for provisions concerning deferral of termination of assistance.

(b) Termination of tenancy for criminal activity by a covered person is subject to 24 CFR 5.858 and 5.859, and termination of tenancy for alcohol abuse by a covered person is subject to 24 CFR 5.860.

(c) In actions or potential actions to terminate tenancy, the owner shall follow 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).

(d) In the case of failure to pay rent, if the Secretary determines that tenants must be provided with adequate notice to secure Federal funding that is available due to a Presidential declaration of a national emergency:

(1) The owner must provide the tenant with written termination notification that includes such information as required by the Secretary; and

(2) The written termination notification described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be provided to the tenant at least 30 days before termination.
