
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart A - Additional Assistance Program for Projects With HUD-Insured and HUD-Held Mortgages
###### ยง 886.107 Approval of applications.

HUD shall approve applications, after considering all pertinent information including comments (if any) received during the comment period from the unit of general local government, based on the following criteria:

(a) The Owner's Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan is approvable.

(b) The HUD-approved unit rents are approvable within the Fair Market Rent limitations contained in ยง 886.110.

(c) The residential units meet the housing quality standards set forth in ยง 886.113, except for such variations as HUD may approve. Local climatic or geological conditions or local codes are examples which may justify such variations.

(d) A significant number of residents, or potential residents, in the case of projects having a vacancy rate over 10 percent, are eligible for and in need of Section 8 assistance.

(e) The infusion of Section 8 assistance into the subject project should not affect other HUD-related multifamily housing within the same neighborhood in a substantially adverse manner. Examples of such adverse effects are (1) substantial move-outs from nearby HUD-related projects precipitated by much lower rents in the subject project, or (2) substantial diversion of prospective applicants from such projects to the subject project.

(f) A first priority is given to HUD-Insured or Secretary-Held projects with presently serious financial problems, which are likely to result in a claim on the insurance fund in the near future. To the extent resources remain available, assistance also may be provided to projects with potentially serious financial problems which, on the basis of financial and/or management analysis, appear to have a high probability of producing a claim on the insurance funds within approximately the next five years.

(g) The infusion of Section 8 assistance into the subject project solves an identifiable problem, e.g., high vacancies and/or turnover, and provides a reasonable assurance of long-term project viability. A determination of long-term viability shall be based upon the following considerations:

(1) The project is not subject to any serious problems that are non-economic in nature. Examples of such problems are poor location, structural deficiencies or disinterested ownership.

(2) The Owner is in substantial compliance with the Regulatory Agreement. Owners are not diverting project funds for personal use. No dividends are being paid during any period of financial difficulty.

(3) The management agent is in substantial compliance with the management agreement. The current management agreement has been approved by HUD. Financial records are adequately kept. Occupancy requirements are being met. Marketing and maintenance programs are being carried out in an adequate manner, based upon available financial resources.

(4) The project's problems are primarily the result of factors beyond the control of the present ownership and management.

(5) The major problems are traceable to an inadequate cash flow.

(6) The infusion of Section 8 assistance will solve the cash flow problem by:

(i) Making it possible to grant needed rent increases;

(ii) Reducing turnover, vacancies and collection losses.

(7) The Owner's plan for remedying any deferred maintenance, financial problems, or other problems is realistic and achievable. There is positive evidence that the Owner will carry out the plan. Examples of such evidence are the Owner's past performance in correcting problems and, in the case of profit-motivated Owners, any cash contributions made to correct project problems.

(h) Any plan submitted pursuant to ยง 886.105(d) is found by HUD to be adequate.
