
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart A - Additional Assistance Program for Projects With HUD-Insured and HUD-Held Mortgages
###### ยง 886.124 Reexamination of family income and composition.
####### Regular reexaminations.

(a)The owner must reexamine the income and composition of all families at least once each year. Upon verification of the information, the owner must make appropriate adjustments in the Total Tenant Payment in accordance with part 5 of this title and determine whether the family's unit size is still appropriate. The owner must adjust Tenant Rent and the Housing Assistance Payment to reflect any change in Total Tenant Payment and carry out any unit transfer required by HUD. At the time of the annual reexamination of family income and composition, the owner must require the family to disclose and verify Social Security Numbers. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, see part 5, subpart B, of this title. At the first regular reexamination after June 19, 1995, the owner shall follow the requirements of part 5, subpart E, of this title concerning obtaining and processing evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status of all family members. Thereafter, at each regular reexamination, the owner shall follow the requirements of part 5, subpart E, of this title concerning verification of the immigration status of any new family member.
