
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart A - Additional Assistance Program for Projects With HUD-Insured and HUD-Held Mortgages
###### ยง 886.138 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
####### Responsibility of owner.

(f)(1) The owner shall certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance, as required by 49 CFR part 24) that he or she will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section. The owner is responsible for such compliance notwithstanding and third party's contractual obligation to the owner to comply with these provisions.

(2) The cost of providing required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost to the same extent and in the same manner as other project costs. Such costs also may be paid for with funds available from other sources.

(3) The owner shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section. The owner shall maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender, and handicap status of displaced persons.
