
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart C - Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects
###### ยง 886.307 Physical condition standards; physical inspection requirements.
####### Congregate housing.

(m)In addition to the foregoing standards, the following standards apply to congregate housing:

(1) The unit shall contain and have ready access to a flush toilet which can be used in privacy, a fixed basin with hot and cold running water, and a shower and/or tub equipped with hot and cold running water all in proper operating condition and adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human wastes. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or private disposal system, and shall be sufficient in number so that they need not be shared by more than four occupants. Those units accommodating physically handicapped occupants with wheelchairs or other special equipment shall provide access to all sanitary facilities, and shall provide, as appropriate to needs of the occupants, basins and toilets of appropriate height; grab bars to toilets, showers and/or bathtubs; shower seats; and adequate space for movement.

(2) The unit shall contain suitable space to store, prepare and serve foods in a sanitary manner. A cooking stove or range, a refrigerator(s) of appropriate size and in sufficient quantity for the number of occupants, and a kitchen sink with hot and cold running water shall be present in proper operating condition. The sink shall drain into an approved private or public system. Adequate space for the storage, preparation and serving of food shall be provided. There shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage where necessary (e.g., garbage cans).

(3) The dwelling unit shall afford the Family adequate space and security. A living room, kitchen, dining area, bathroom, and other appropriate social and/or recreational community space shall be within the unit and the dwelling unit shall contain at least one sleeping room of appropriate size for each two persons. Exterior doors and windows accessible from outside each unit shall be capable of being locked. An emergency exit plan shall be developed and occupants shall be apprised of the details of the plan. Regular fire inspections shall be conducted by appropriate local officials. Readily accessible first aid supplies and fire extinguishers shall be provided throughout the unit, smoke detectors shall be provided and emergency phone numbers (police, ambulance, fire department, etc.) shall be available at every phone and individual copies shall be provided to each occupant. All emergency and safety features and procedures shall meet applicable State and local standards.
