
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart C - Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects
###### ยง 886.309 Housing assistance payment to owners.
####### Debt service payments.

(g)(1) If a contract unit continues to be vacant after the 60-day period specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the Owner may submit a claim and receive additional housing assistance payments on a semiannual basis with respect to such a vacant unit in an amount equal to the principal and interest payments required to amortize the portion of the debt attributable to that unit for the period of the vacancy, whether such vacancy commenced during rent-up or after rent-up.

(2) Additional payments under this paragraph (g) for any unit shall not be for more than 12 months for any vacancy period, and shall be made only if:

(i) The unit is not in a project insured under the National Housing Act except pursuant to section 244 of that Act.

(ii) The unit was in decent, safe, and sanitary condition during the vacancy period for which payments are claimed.

(iii) The owner has taken and is continuing to take the actions specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) or paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate.

(iv) The Owner has demonstrated in connection with the semiannual claim on a form and in accordance with the standards prescribed by HUD with respect to the period of the vacancy, that the project is not providing the Owner with revenues at least equal to the project costs incurred by the Owner, and that the amount of the payments requested is not in excess of that portion of the deficiency which is attributable to the vacant units for the period of the vacancies.

(v) The Owner has submitted, in connection with the semiannual claim, a statement with relevant supporting evidence that there is a reasonable prospect that the project can achieve financial soundness within a reasonable time. The statement shall indicate the causes of the deficiency; the corrective steps that have been and will be taken; and the time by which it is expected that the project revenues will at least equal project costs without the additional payments provided under this paragraph.

(3) HUD may deny any claim for additional payments or suspend or terminate payments if it determines that based on the Owner's statement and other evidence, there is not a reasonable prospect that the project can achieve financial soundness within a reasonable time.
