
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart C - Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects
###### ยง 886.324 Reexamination of family income and composition.
####### Interim reexaminations.

(b)The family must comply with provisions in its lease regarding interim reporting of changes in income. If the owner receives information concerning a change in the family's income or other circumstances between regularly scheduled reexaminations, the owner must consult with the family and make any adjustments determined to be appropriate. Any change in the family's income or other circumstances that results in an adjustment in the Total Tenant Payment, Tenant Rent and Housing Assistance Payment must be verified. See part 5, subpart B, of this title for the requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security Numbers at interim reexaminations involving new family members. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, see part 5, subpart B, of this title. At any interim reexamination after June 19, 1995 when there is a new family member, the owner shall follow the requirements of part 5 of this title concerning obtaining and processing evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status of the new family member.
