
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart C - Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects
###### ยง 886.332 Rehabilitation period.
####### Changes.

(c)(1) The Owner must submit to HUD for approval any changes from the work specified in the Agreement which would materially reduce or alter the Owner's obligations or the quality or amenities of the project. HUD may condition its approval of such changes on a reduction of the Contract Rents. If changes are made without prior HUD approval, HUD will have the right to take action consistent with the purpose of this subpart, including action intended to preclude the owner from benefiting from a change in the work specified without HUD approval. HUD action shall include but is not limited to reducing the Contract Rents, requiring the owner to remedy the deficiency, or rescission of the Contract of Sale with reimbursement to the owner for the HUD determined reasonable cost of work items completed by the Owner and acceptable to HUD.

(2) Contract Rents for project units being rehabilitated shall not be increased except in accordance with this subpart. Should an increase in Contract Rents be necessitated by changes in local codes or ordinances or other unanticipated changes in work items which could not have been anticipated by HUD, an increase will only be approved if HUD approval is obtained prior to incorporation of any changes in the project.
