
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart C - Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects
###### ยง 886.331 Agreement to enter into housing assistance payments contract.
####### Execution of agreement.

(a)At the sales closing and prior to the Owner's commencement of any rehabilitation under this subpart, HUD will enter into an Agreement with the Owner which contains the following:

(1) A statement that the Owner agrees to rehabilitate the project unit(s) to make the unit(s) decent, safe, and sanitary in accordance with the work write-up, cost estimates, and this subpart.

(2) A date by which rehabilitation will have commenced and a deadline date by which the rehabilitated project unit(s) will be completed and ready for occupancy. The Agreement may provide for staged rehabilitation, occupancy, and payments under the contract.

(3) The Contract Rent which will be paid to the Owner once rehabilitation is completed, the Contract is executed, and the unit(s) is/are occupied by an eligible family.

(4) A date for final inspection of the unit(s) by HUD and the owner shall be specified. This date shall be as soon as possible after the deadline date specified pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(5) The term of the contract.
