
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 886 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS
##### Subpart C - Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects
###### ยง 886.333 Completion of rehabilitation.
####### Acceptance where defects or deficiencies reported.

(g)If the projects unit(s) are not acceptable under paragraph (f) of this section, the following shall apply:

(1) If the only defects or deficiencies are punchlist items or incomplete items awaiting seasonal opportunity, the project may be accepted and the contract executed. If the owner fails to complete the items within a reasonable time to the satisfaction of HUD, HUD may, upon 30 days notice to the owner terminate the contract and/or exercise its other rights thereunder, including rescission of the sale.

(2) If the defects or deficiencies are other than punchlist items or incomplete work awaiting seasonal opportunity, HUD shall determine whether and to what extent the defects or deficiencies can be corrected, what corrections are essential to permit HUD to accept the project, whether and to what extent a reduction of Contract Rents will be required as a condition to acceptance of the project, and the extension of time required for the remaining work to be done. The owner shall be notified of HUD's determinations and, if the owner agrees to comply with the conditions, an addendum to the Agreement shall be entered into, specifying the remaining work, pursuant to which the defects or deficiencies will be corrected and the unit(s) then accepted. If the owner is unwilling to enter into such an addendum or fails to perform under the addendum, the units will not be accepted and appropriate remedies will be sought by HUD. Paragraphs (a) through (g) will apply when the remaining work is completed satisfactorily.
