
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 888 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - FAIR MARKET RENTS AND CONTRACT RENT ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT FACTORS
##### Subpart A - Fair Market Rents
###### ยง 888.113 Fair market rents for existing housing: Methodology.
####### FMR areas.

(d)FMR areas comprise metropolitan areas and nonmetropolitan counties and Small Area FMR areas as follows:

(1) Generally, FMR areas are metropolitan areas and nonmetropolitan counties. With several exceptions, the most current Office of Management and Budget (OMB) metropolitan area definitions of Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) are used because of their generally close correspondence with housing market area definitions. HUD may make exceptions to OMB definitions if the MSAs encompass areas that are larger than housing market areas. The counties deleted from the HUD-defined FMR areas in those cases are established as separate metropolitan county FMR areas. FMRs are established for all areas in the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Insular Areas of the United States.

(2) Small Area FMR areas are the U.S. Postal Service ZIP code areas within a designated metropolitan area.
