
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 888 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - FAIR MARKET RENTS AND CONTRACT RENT ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT FACTORS
##### Subpart A - Fair Market Rents
###### ยง 888.113 Fair market rents for existing housing: Methodology.
####### Setting Small Area FMRs.

(c)(1) HUD will set Small Area FMRs for certain metropolitan FMR areas for use in the administration of tenant-based assistance under the HCV program. HUD will establish the selection values used to determine those metropolitan areas through anotice on November 16, 2016 and may update the selection values through anotice, subject to public comment. The selection criteria used to determine those metropolitan areas are:

(i) The number of vouchers under lease in the metropolitan FMR area;

(ii) The percentage of the standard quality rental stock, within the metropolitan FMR area is in small areas (ZIP codes) where the Small Area FMR is more than 110 percent of the metropolitan FMR area;

(iii) The percentage of voucher families living in concentrated low income areas;

(iv) The percentage of voucher families living in concentrated low income areas relative to the percentage of all renters within these areas over the entire metropolitan area; and

(v) The vacancy rate for the metropolitan area.

(2) For purposes of determining applicability of Small Area FMRs to a metropolitan area, the term "concentrated low-income areas" means:

(i) Those census tracts in the metropolitan FMR area with a poverty rate of 25 percent or more; or

(ii) Any tract in the metropolitan FMR area where at least 50 percent of the households earn less than 60 percent of the area median income and are designated by HUD as Qualified Census Tracts in accordance with section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 42).

(3) If a metropolitan area meets the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, Small Area FMRs will apply to the metropolitan area and all PHAs administering HCV programs in that area will be required to use Small Area FMRs. A PHA administering an HCV program in a metropolitan area not subject to the application of Small Area FMRs may opt to use Small Area FMRs by seeking approval from HUD's Office of Public and Indian Housing (PIH) through written request to PIH.

(4) HUD will designate Small Area FMR areas at the beginning of a Federal fiscal year, such designations will be permanent, and will make new area designations every 5 years thereafter as new data becomes available. HUD may suspend a Small Area FMR designation from a metropolitan area, or may temporarily exempt a PHA in a Small Area FMR metropolitan area from use of the Small Area FMRs, when HUD by notice makes a documented determination that such action is warranted. Actions that may serve as the basis of a suspension of Small Area FMRs are:

(i) A Presidentially declared disaster area that results in the loss of a substantial number of housing units;

(ii) A sudden influx of displaced households needing permanent housing; or

(iii) Other events as determined by the Secretary.

(5) Small Area FMRs only apply to tenant-based assistance under the HCV program. However, a PHA may elect to apply Small Area FMRs to project-based voucher (PBV) units at 24 CFR part 983 as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
