
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 16 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 16.1 Purpose and statement of policy.

(a) The purpose of this part is to establish policies and procedures for implementing the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579), 5 U.S.C. 552(a). The main objectives are to facilitate full exercise of rights conferred on individuals under the Act and to insure the protection of privacy as to individuals about whom the Department maintains records in systems of records under the Act. The Department accepts the responsibility to act promptly and in accordance with the Act upon receipt of any inquiry, request or appeal from a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United States, regardless of the age of the individual.

(b) Further, the Department accepts the obligations to maintain only such information on individuals as is relevant and necessary to the performance of its lawful functions, to maintain that information with such accuracy, relevancy, timeliness and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness in determinations made by the Department about the individual, to obtain information from the individual to the extent practicable, and to take every reasonable step to protect that information from unwarranted disclosure. The Department will maintain no record describing how an individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.

(c) This part applies to all organizational components in the Department in order to assure the maximum amount of uniformity and consistency within the Department in its implementation of the Act.

(d) The Assistant Secretary for Administration shall be responsible for carrying out the requirements of this part, for issuing such orders and directives internal to the Department as are necessary for full compliance with the Act, and for effecting publication of all required notices concerning systems of records.

(e) Requests involving information pertaining to an individual which is in a record or file but not within the scope of a System of Records Notice published in theare outside the scope of this part. Requests for departmental records will be considered to determine whether processing under this part, part 15, or both is most appropriate, notwithstanding the requester's characterization of the request, as follows:
