
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 888 - SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM - FAIR MARKET RENTS AND CONTRACT RENT ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT FACTORS
##### Subpart C - Retroactive Housing Assistance Payments for New Construction, Substantial Rehabilitation, State Finance Agencies, Section 515 Farmers Home Administration, Section 202 Elderly or Handicapped, and Special Allocations Projects
###### ยง 888.305 Amount of the retroactive Housing Assistance Payments.
####### Debt service.

(g)(1) For purposes of this section, debt service includes principal, interest, and the mortgage insurance premium, if any.

(2) The monthly debt service set forth in the original mortgage documents for a project will be used to compute the debt service portion of the contract rent. The debt service will be compared to the spread of unit sizes included in the original HAP contract, and the amount used in the calculation will be based on the percentage of total rent potential of the various unit types.

(3) If, in some cases, HUD or the Contract Administrator cannot determine the debt service for a project, the project owner will be asked to provide documentation of the debt service. The project owner will be notified by the HUD Field Office or the Contract Administrator of the need for documentation of the debt service, and allowed 30 days to respond, or for such longer period as approved by HUD or the Contract Administrator on a case-by-case basis. Where the debt service is not available to HUD or the Contract Administrator and the owner is unable to provide the necessary information, retroactive payments cannot be made.
