
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart B - Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly
###### ยง 891.225 Provision of services.

(a) In carrying out the provisions of this part, HUD shall ensure that housing assisted under this part provides services as described in section 202 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(g)(1)).

(b)(1) HUD shall ensure that Owners have the managerial capacity to perform the coordination of services described in 12 U.S.C. 1701q(g)(2).

(2) Any cost associated with this paragraph shall be an eligible cost under the contract for project rental assistance. Any cost associated with the employment of a service coordinator shall also be an eligible cost, except if the project is receiving congregate housing services assistance under section 802 of the National Affordable Housing Act. The HUD-approved service costs will be an eligible expense to be paid from project rental assistance, not to exceed $15 per unit per month. The balance of service costs shall be provided from other sources, which may include co-payment by the tenant receiving the service. Such co-payment shall not be included in the Total Tenant Payment.
