
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart D - Project Management
###### ยง 891.400 Responsibilities of owner.
####### Contracting for services.

(c)(1) With HUD approval, the Owner may contract with a private or public entity for performance of the services or duties required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. However, such an arrangement does not relieve the Owner of responsibility for these services and duties. All such contracts are subject to the restrictions governing prohibited contractual relationships described in ยง 891.130. (These prohibitions do not extend to management contracts entered into by the Owner with the Sponsor or its nonprofit affiliate.)

(2) Consistent with the objectives of Executive Order No. 11625 (36 FR 19967, 3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 616; as amended by Executive Order No. 12007 (42 FR 42839, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 139)); Executive Order No. 12432 (48 FR 32551, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 198); and Executive Order No. 12138 (44 FR 29637, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 393; as amended by Executive Order No. 12608 (52 FR 34617, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 245)), the Owner will promote awareness and participation of minority and women's business enterprises in contracting and procurement activities.
