
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart D - Project Management
###### § 891.410 Selection and admission of tenants.
####### Determination of eligibility and selection of tenants.

(c)(1) The Owner is responsible for determining whether applicants are eligible for admission and for the selection of households. To be eligible for admission, an applicant must be an elderly person or a person with disabilities, as applicable (as defined in §§ 891.205 and 891.305, respectively); must meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, subpart B; must sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, subpart B; and must be a very low-income family, as defined in § 891.105.

(2) Under the Section 811 Program:

(i) In order to be eligible for admission, the applicant must also meet any project occupancy requirements approved by HUD.

(ii) Owners shall make selections in a nondiscriminatory manner without regard to considerations such as race, religion, color, sex, national origin, familial status, or disability. An Owner may, with the approval of the Secretary, limit occupancy within housing developed under this part 891 to persons with disabilities who have similar disabilities and require a similar set of supportive services in a supportive housing environment. However, the Owner must permit occupancy by any qualified person with a disability who could benefit from the housing and/or services provided regardless of the person's disability.
