
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 16 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 16.4 Requests for access; requirements.
##### Parents of minors and legal guardians.

(3)An individual acting as the parent of a minor or the legal guardian of the individual to whom a record pertains shall establish his or her personal identity in the same manner prescribed in either paragraph (d) (1) or (2) of this section. In addition, such other individual shall establish his or her representative capacity of parent or legal guardian. In the case of the parent of a minor, the proof of identity shall be a certified or authenticated copy of the minor's birth certificate. In the case of a legal guardian of an individual who has been declared incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction, the proof of identity shall be a certified or authenticated copy of the court's order. A parent or legal guardian may act only for a living individual, not for a decedent. A parent or legal guardian may be accompanied during personal access to a record by another individual, provided the provisions of ยง 16.5(e) are satisfied.

(e) When the provisions of this part are alleged to have the effect of impeding an individual in exercising his or her right to access, the Department will consider alternative suggestions from an individual making a request, regarding proof of identity and access to records.

(f) An individual shall not be required to state a reason or otherwise justify his or her request for access to a record.
