
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.525 Amount and terms of financing.

(a) The amount of financing approved shall be the amount stated in the Notice of Section 202 Fund Reservation, including any increase approved by the field office prior to the final closing of a loan; provided, however, that the amount of financing provided shall not exceed the lesser of:

(1) The dollar amounts stated in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section; or

(2) The total development cost of the project as determined by the field office.

(b) For such part of the property or project attributable to dwelling use (excluding exterior land improvements, as defined by the Assistant Secretary) the maximum loan amount, depending on the number of bedrooms, may not exceed:

(1) $28,032 per family unit without a bedroom.

(2) $32,321 per family unit with one bedroom.

(3) $38,979 per family unit with two bedrooms.

(c) In order to compensate for the higher costs incident to construction of elevator type structures of sound standards of construction and design, the field office may increase the dollar limitations per family unit, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, to not to exceed:

(1) $29,500 per family unit without a bedroom.

(2) $33,816 per family unit with one bedroom.

(3) $41,120 per family unit with two bedrooms.
