
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 16 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 16.5 Disclosure of requested information to individuals.
##### Methods of access.

(2)The following methods of access to records by an individual may be available depending on the circumstances of a given situation:

(i) Inspection in person may be had in the office specified by the Privacy Act Officer granting access during hours indicated by the Privacy Act Officer;

(ii) Transfer of records to a Federal facility more convenient to the individual may be arranged, but only if the Privacy Act Officer determines that a suitable facility is available, that the individual's access can be properly supervised at the facility, and that transmittal of the records to that facility will not unduly interfere with operations of the Department or involve unreasonable costs, in terms of both money and manpower; and

(iii) Copies may be mailed at the request of the individual, subject to payment of the fees prescribed in ยง 16.12. The Department, at its own initiative, may elect to provide a copy by mail, in which case no fee will be charged the individual.

(c) The Department shall supply such other information and assistance at the time of access as to make the record intelligible to the individual.

(d) The Department reserves the right to limit access to copies and abstracts of original records, rather than the original records. This election would be appropriate, for example, when the record is in an automated data media such as tape or disc, when the record contains information on other individuals, and when deletion of information is permissible under exemptions (for example, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)). In no event shall original records of the Department be made available to the individual except under the immediate supervision of the Privacy Act Officer or his designee. It is a crime to conceal, mutilate, obliterate, or destroy any record filed in a public office, or to attempt to do any of the foregoing, Title 18, United States Code, 2701(a).
