
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.525 Amount and terms of financing.
######## Optional interest rate.

(2)The Borrower may elect an optional loan interest rate. To elect the optional rate, the Borrower must request that HUD determine the loan interest rate at the time of the Borrower's request for conditional or firm commitment for direct loan financing.

(i) If the Borrower elects the optional loan interest rate, the loan interest rate shall not exceed:

(A) The average yield on the most recently issued 30-year marketable obligations of the United States during the 3-month period immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the request for commitment is submitted (adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of one percent), plus an allowance to cover administrative costs and probable losses under the program;

(B) The average yield on the most recently issued 30-year marketable obligations of the United States during the 1-month period immediately preceding the month in which the request for commitment is submitted (adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of one percent), plus an allowance to cover the administrative costs and probable losses under the program; and (C) Any applicable statutory ceiling on the loan interest rate including an allowance to cover administrative costs and probable losses under the program.

(ii) The date of submission of a request for conditional or firm commitment is the date that the Borrower submits the complete and acceptable request to HUD. The date of the submission of a request for commitment will not be affected by any subsequent resubmission of the request by the Borrower or by any reprocessing of the request by HUD.

(iii) The Borrower may withdraw its election of the optional interest rate at any time before initial loan closing. If the Borrower elected the optional interest rate with its request for conditional commitment and withdraws its election, the loan will bear interest at the rate determined under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, unless the Borrower elects an optional interest rate with its request for firm commitment. If the Borrower withdraws its election after the date of submission of its request for firm commitment, the loan will bear interest at the rate determined under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iv) If initial loan closing has not occurred within 18 months after the Notice of Section 202 Fund Reservation is issued, the Borrower's election of the optional rate will be cancelled and the loan will bear interest at the rate determined under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
