
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.545 Completion of project, cost certification, and HUD approvals.

(a) The Borrower must satisfy the requirements for completion of construction and substantial rehabilitation and approvals by HUD before submission of a final requisition for disbursement of loan proceeds.

(b) The Borrower shall submit to the field office all documentation required for final disbursement of the loan, including:

(1) A Borrower's/Mortgagor's Certificate of Actual Cost, showing the actual cost to the mortgagor of the construction contract, architectural, legal, organizational, offsite costs, and all other items of eligible expense. The certificate shall not include as actual cost any kickbacks, rebates, trade discounts, or other similar payments to the mortgagor or to any of its officers, directors, or members.

(2) A verification of the Certificate of Actual Cost by an independent Certified Public Accountant or independent public accountant acceptable to the field office.

(3) In the case of projects not subject to competitive bidding, a certification of the general contractor (and of such subcontractors, material suppliers, and equipment lessors as the Assistant Secretary or field office may require), on a form prescribed by the Assistant Secretary, as to all actual costs paid for labor, materials, and subcontract work under the general contract exclusive of the builder's fee and kickbacks, rebates, trade discounts, or other similar payments to the general contractor, the mortgagor, or any of its officers, directors, stockholders, partners, or members.

(c) In lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) and (3) of this section, a simplified form of cost certification prescribed by the Secretary may be completed and submitted by the Borrower for projects with mortgages of $500,000 or less. The simplified cost certification shall be verified by an independent Certified Public Accountant or an independent public accountant in a manner acceptable to the Secretary.

(d) If the Borrower's certified costs provided in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section and as approved by HUD are less than the loan amount, the contract rents will be reduced accordingly.

(e) If the contract rents are reduced pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the maximum annual HAP Contract commitment will be reduced. If contract rents are reduced based on cost certification after HAP Contract execution, any overpayment after the effective date of the Contract will be recovered from the Borrower by HUD.
