
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.525 Amount and terms of financing.
######## Announcement of interest rates.

(h)(1) HUD will annually announce the loan interest rate determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section by publishing notice of the rate in theThenotice will include a statement explaining the basis for the interest rate determination.

(2) Upon the Borrower's request, HUD will provide available current information concerning the determination of the interest rate under paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(i) The loan shall be secured by a first mortgage on real estate in fee simple or long term leasehold. The mortgage shall be repayable during a term not to exceed 40 years and shall be subject to such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Assistant Secretary.

(j) In order to assure HUD of the Borrower's continued commitment to the development, management, and operation of the project, a minimum capital investment is required of Section 202 Borrowers of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the mortgage amount committed to be disbursed, not to exceed the amount of $10,000. Section 106(b) loans made pursuant to section 106 of the Housing Act of 1968 may not be utilized to meet the minimum capital investment requirement. Such minimum capital investment shall be placed in escrow at the initial closing of the Section 202 loan and shall be held by HUD or other escrow agent acceptable to the field office for not less than a 3-year period from the date of initial occupancy and may be used for operating expenses or deficits as may be directed by the field office. Any unexpended balance remaining in the minimum capital investment account at the end of the escrow period shall be returned to the Borrower.
