
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.540 Loan disbursement procedures.
######## Loan disbursements.

(3)(i) Before a loan disbursement for a building component stored off-site is made, the Borrower shall:

(A) Obtain a bill of sale for the component;

(B) Provide HUD with a security agreement pledged by a first lien on the building components with the exception of such other liens or encumbrances as may be approved by HUD; and

(C) File a financing statement in accordance with the Uniform Commercial Code.

(ii) Before each loan disbursement for building components stored off-site is made the manufacturer and the general contractor shall certify to HUD that the components, in their intended use, comply with HUD-approved contract plan and specifications.

(iii) Loan disbursements may be made only for components stored off-site in a quantity required to permit uninterrupted installation at the site.

(iv) At no time shall the invoice value of building components being stored off-site, for which advances have been insured, represent more than 25 percent of the total estimated construction costs for the insured mortgaged project as specified in the construction contract. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and other regulatory requirements that set bonding requirements, the percentage of total estimated construction costs insured by advances under this section may exceed 25 percent but not 50 percent if the mortgagor furnishes assurance of completion in the form of a corporate surety bond for the payment and performance each in the amount of 100 percent of the amount of the construction contract. In no event will insurance of components stored off-site be made in the absence of a payment and performance bond.

(v) No single loan disbursement which is to be made shall be in an amount less than ten thousand ($10,000) dollars.
