
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.535 Requirements for awarding construction contracts.

(a) Awards shall be made only to responsible contractors that possess the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed construction contract. Consideration shall be given to such matters as contractor integrity, compliance with public policy, record of past performance, and financial and technical resources.

(b) Each Borrower is permitted to use either competitive bidding (formal advertising) in selecting a construction contractor or the negotiated noncompetitive method of contract award under paragraph (c) of this section. In competitive bidding, sealed bids are publicly solicited and a firm, fixed-price contract is awarded (in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (b)) to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation for bids, is lowest in price. Regardless of which method a Borrower uses, there should be an opportunity for minority owned and women owned businesses to be awarded a contract.

(1) Bids shall be solicited from an adequate number of known contractors a reasonable time prior to the date set forth for opening of bids. In addition, the invitation shall be publicly advertised.

(2) The invitation for bids shall specify:

(i) The name of the Borrower;

(ii) A brief description of the proposed project and the proposed construction contract;

(iii) A preliminary estimate of cost;

(iv) That bids will be received at a specified place until a specified time at which time and place all bids will be publicly opened;

(v) The location where the proposed forms of contract and bid documents, including plans and specifications, are on file and may be obtained on payment of a specified returnable deposit;

(vi) That a certified check or bank draft or satisfactory bid bond in the amount of 5 percent of the bid shall be submitted with the bid;

(vii) That the successful bidder will be required to provide assurance of completion in the form of a performance and payment bond or cash escrow; and

(viii) That the Borrower reserves the right to reject any or all bids and to waive any informality.

(3) The bid form, which must be submitted by all bidders, must specify:

(i) The name of the project;

(ii) The name and address of the bidder;

(iii) That the bidder proposes to furnish all labor, materials, equipment and services required to construct and complete the project, as described in the invitation for bids (including the contents of all documents on file), for a specified lump-sum price;

(iv) That the security specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section accompanies the bid;

(v) The period after the bid opening during which the bid shall not be withdrawn without the consent of the Borrower;

(vi) That the bidder will, if notified of acceptance of such bid within a specified period after the opening, execute and deliver a contract in the prescribed form and furnish the required bond within ten days thereafter;

(vii) That the bidder acknowledges any amendments to the invitation for bids; and

(viii) That the bidder certifies that the bid is in strict accordance with all terms of the invitation for bids (including the contents of all documents on file) and that the bid is signed by a person authorized to bind the bidder.

(4) Bidding shall be open to all general contractors who furnish the security guaranteeing their bid, as described in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section.

(5) All bids shall be opened publicly at the time and place stated in the invitation for bids, in the presence of the HUD Regional Administrator or his designee.

(6) A firm, fixed-price contract award shall be made by written notice to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the invitation for bids, is lowest. The contract may provide for an incentive payment to the contractor for an early completion.

(c) A Sponsor or Borrower may award a negotiated, noncompetitive construction contract.
