
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 16 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### ยง 16.7 Administrative review of initial denial of access.

(a) Review shall be available only from a written denial of a request for access issued under ยง 16.6(a) (2) or (3) and only if a written request for review is filed within thirty calendar days after the issuance of the written denial.

(b) A request for review shall be addressed to the Privacy Appeals Officer identified in the initial denial, which official is authorized to make final determinations. The envelope containing the request for review and the letter itself should both clearly indicate that the subject is a PRIVACY ACT REQUEST FOR REVIEW.

(c) When a request for review is misdirected by the requester, or not addressed as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the Department official receiving same shall promptly refer it to the Privacy Appeals Officer and the time of receipt for processing purposes will be the time when it is received by the appropriate official.

(d) When a request for review fails to provide necessary information as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, the requester shall be given reasonable opportunity to amend the request and shall be advised that the time of receipt for processing purposes will be the time when the additional necessary information is received by the appropriate official.

(e) The filing of a request for review may be accomplished by mailing to the Privacy Appeals Officer a copy of the request for access, if in writing; a copy of the written denial issued under ยง 16.6; and a statement of the reasons why the initial denial is believed to be in error. The appeal shall be signed by the individual.

(f) No hearing will be allowed in connection with administrative review of an initial denial of access.

(g) The Privacy Appeals Officer shall act upon the appeal and issue a final determination in writing not later than thirty days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) from the date on which the appeal is received; provided, that the Privacy Appeals officer may extend the thirty days upon deciding that a fair and equitable review cannot be made within that period, but only if the individual is advised in writing of the reason for the extension and the estimated date by which a final determination will issue, which estimated date should not be later than the sixtieth day (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after receipt of the appeal unless there exist unusual circumstances, as described in ยง 16.5(a).

(h) The decision after review will be in writing, will constitute final action of the Department on a request for access, and, if the denial of the request is in whole or part upheld, the Department shall notify the person making the request of his right to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1), as amended by 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(5).
