
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### § 891.600 Responsibilities of Borrower.
######## Contracting for services.

(c)(1) With HUD approval, the Borrower may contract with a private or public entity for performance of the services or duties required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. However, such an arrangement does not relieve the Borrower of responsibility for these services and duties. All such contracts are subject to the restrictions governing prohibited contractual relationships described in §§ 891.130 and 891.505, if applicable. (These prohibitions do not extend to management contracts entered into by the Borrower with the Sponsor or its nonprofit affiliate).

(2) Consistent with the objectives of Executive Order No. 11625 (36 FR 19967, 3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 616; as amended by Executive Order No. 12007 (42 FR 42839, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 139; unless otherwise noted); Executive Order No. 12432 (48 FR 32551, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 198; unless otherwise noted); and Executive Order No. 12138 (44 FR 29637, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 393; unless otherwise noted), the Borrower will promote awareness and participation of minority and women's business enterprises in contracting and procurement activities.
