
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### ยง 891.600 Responsibilities of Borrower.
######## Marketing.

(a)(1) The Borrower must commence and continue diligent marketing activities not later than 90 days before the anticipated date of availability for occupancy of the first unit of the project. Market activities shall include the provision of notices of availability of housing under the program to operators of temporary housing for the homeless in the same housing market.

(2) Marketing must be done in accordance with the HUD-approved affirmative fair housing marketing plan and all Federal, State, or local fair housing and equal opportunity requirements. The purpose of the plan and requirements is to achieve a condition in which eligible families of similar income levels in the same housing market have a like range of housing choices available to them regardless of discriminatory considerations, such as their race, color, creed, religion, familial status, disability, sex or national origin. Marketing must also be done in accordance with the communication and notice requirements of Section 504 at 24 CFR 8.6 and 24 CFR 8.54.

(3) At the time of HAP contract execution, the Borrower must submit to HUD a list of leased and unleased assisted units, with a justification for the unleased units, in order to qualify for vacancy payments for the unleased units.
