
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped - Section 8 Assistance
####### § 891.600 Responsibilities of Borrower.
######## Use of project funds.

(e)The Borrower shall maintain a separate project fund account in a depository or depositories that are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund and shall deposit all rents, charges, income and revenues arising from project operation or ownership to this account. All project funds are to be deposited in Federally-insured accounts. All balances shall be fully insured at all times, to the maximum extent possible. Project funds must be used for the operation of the project (including required insurance coverage), to make required principal and interest payments on the Section 202 loan, and to make required deposits to the replacement reserve under §§ 891.605 and 891.745 (as applicable), in accordance with a HUD-approved budget. Any project funds in the project funds account (including earned interest) following the expiration of the fiscal year shall be deposited in a Federally-insured residual receipts account within 60 days following the end of the fiscal year. Withdrawals from this account may be made only for project purposes and with the approval of HUD. If there are funds remaining in the residual receipts account when the mortgage is satisfied, such funds shall be returned to HUD.
