
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter VIII - Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program)
#### PART 891 - SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart E - Loans for Housing for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
###### Section 202 Projects for the Nonelderly Handicapped Families and Individuals - Section 162 Assistance
####### ยง 891.750 Selection and admission of tenants.
######## Local residency requirements are prohibited.

(1)Local residency preferences may be applied in selecting tenants only to the extent that they are not inconsistent with affirmative fair housing marketing objectives and the Borrower's HUD-approved affirmative fair housing marketing plan. Preferences may not be based on the length of time the applicant has resided in the jurisdiction. With respect to any residency preference, persons expected to reside in the community as a result of current or planned employment will be treated as residents.

(2) If the Borrower determines that the family is eligible and is otherwise acceptable and units (or residential spaces in a group home) are available, the Borrower will assign the family a unit or residential space in a group home. If the family will occupy an assisted unit the Borrower will assign the family a unit of the appropriate size in accordance with HUD standards. If no suitable unit (or residential space in a group home) is available, the Borrower will place the family on a waiting list for the project and notify the family when a suitable unit or residential space may become available. If the waiting list is so long that the applicant would not be likely to be admitted within the next 12 months, the Borrower may advise the applicant that no additional applications for admission are being considered for that reason.

(3) If the Borrower determines that an applicant is ineligible for admission or the Borrower is not selecting the applicant for other reasons, the Borrower will promptly notify the applicant in writing of the determination, the reasons for the determination, and that the applicant has a right to request a meeting to review the rejection, in accordance with HUD requirements. The review, if requested, may not be conducted by the member of the Borrower's staff who made the initial decision to reject the applicant. The applicant may also exercise other rights if the applicant believes the applicant is being discriminated against on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, handicap, or national origin.

(4) Records on applicants and approved eligible families, which provide racial, ethnic, gender and place of previous residency data required by HUD, must be maintained and retained for three years.
