
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 902.13 Frequency of PHAS assessments.
####### Frequency of scoring for PHAs with 250 units or more.

(b)(1) All PHAs, other than stated in paragraph (a) of this section, may be assessed on an annual basis.

(2) The physical condition score for each project will determine the frequency of inspections of each project. For projects with a physical condition score of 90 points or higher, physical inspections will be conducted every 3 years at the project. For projects with a physical condition score of less than 90 points but at least 80 points, physical inspection will be conducted every 2 years at the project. The physical condition score of 80 points or higher will be carried over to the next assessment period and averaged with the other project physical condition score(s) for the next assessment year for an overall PHAS physical condition indicator score. For projects whose physical condition score for a project is less than 80 points, physical inspections will be conducted annually at the project.

(3) If a PHA is designated as a troubled performer, all projects will receive a physical condition inspection regardless of the individual project physical condition score.

(4) In the baseline year, every PHA will receive an overall PHAS score and in all four of the PHAS indicators: Physical condition; financial condition; management operations; and Capital Fund program. This will allow a baseline for the physical condition inspections and the 3-2-1 inspection schedule, as well as a baseline year for the small deregulated PHAs.
