
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Physical Condition Indicator
###### ยง 902.24 Database adjustment.
####### Adjustments for adverse conditions beyond the control of the PHA.

(b)Under certain circumstances, HUD may determine that certain deficiencies that adversely and significantly affect the physical condition score of the project were caused by circumstances beyond the control of the PHA. The correction of these conditions, however, remains the responsibility of the PHA.

(1) The circumstances addressed by this paragraph (b)(1) may include, but are not limited to, damage caused by third parties (such as a private entity or public entity undertaking work near a public housing project that results in damage to the project) or natural disasters. The circumstances addressed in this paragraph (b)(1) are not those addressed by the technical review process in ยง 902.68.

(2) To adjust a physical condition score based on circumstances addressed in this paragraph, the PHA must submit a request to the applicable HUD field office requesting a reinspection or rescoring of the PHA's project(s) dependent on the severity of the deficiency. The request must be submitted within 45 days of the issuance of the physical condition score to the PHA. If the PHA is requesting a reinspection, the request must be accompanied by a certification that all deficiencies identified in the original report have been corrected. Based on the recommendation of the applicable HUD office following its review of the project's or PHA's evidence or documentation, HUD may determine that a reinspection and rescoring of the PHA's project(s) is necessary.
