
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Physical Condition Indicator
###### ยง 902.24 Database adjustment.
####### Adjustments for factors not reflected or inappropriately reflected in physical condition score.

(a)Under circumstances described in this section, HUD may determine it is appropriate to review the results of a project's physical inspection that are unusual or incorrect due to facts and circumstances affecting the PHA's project that are not reflected in the inspection or that are reflected inappropriately in the inspection.

(1) The circumstances described in this section are not the circumstances that may be addressed by the technical review process described in ยง 902.68. The circumstances addressed in this paragraph (a)(1) of this section may include inconsistencies between local code requirements and the HUD physical inspection protocol; conditions that are permitted by local variance or license or which are preexisting physical features that do not conform to, or are inconsistent with, HUD's physical condition protocol; or the project or PHA having been scored for elements (e.g., roads, sidewalks, mail boxes, resident-owned appliances, etc.) that it does not own and is not responsible for maintaining. To qualify for an adjustment on this basis, the project or PHA must have notified the proper authorities regarding the deficient element.

(2) An adjustment due to these circumstances may be initiated by a project or PHA's notification to the applicable HUD field office, and such notification shall include appropriate proof of the reasons for the unusual or incorrect result. Projects and PHAs may submit the request for this adjustment either prior to or after the physical inspection has been concluded. If the request is made after the conclusion of the physical inspection, the request must be made within 45 days of issuance of the project's or PHA's physical condition score. Based on the recommendation of the applicable HUD office following its review of the project evidence or documentation submitted by the project or PHA, HUD may determine that a reinspection and/or rescoring of the project or PHA is necessary.
