
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Physical Condition Indicator
###### ยง 902.24 Database adjustment.
####### Adjustments for modernization work in progress.

(c)HUD may determine that occupied dwelling units or other areas of a PHA's project, which are subject to physical inspection under this subpart, and which are undergoing modernization work, require an adjustment to the physical condition score.

(1) An occupied dwelling unit or other areas of a PHA's project undergoing modernization are subject to physical inspection; the unit(s) and other areas of the PHA's project are not exempt from physical inspection. All elements of the unit or of the other areas of the PHA's project that are subject to inspection and are not undergoing modernization at the time of the inspection (even if modernization is planned) will be subject to HUD's physical inspection protocol without adjustment. For those elements of the unit or of the project that are undergoing modernization, deficiencies will be noted in accordance with HUD's physical inspection protocol, but the project or PHA may request adjustment of the physical condition score as a result of modernization work in progress.

(2) An adjustment due to modernization work in progress may be initiated by a project's or PHA's notification to the applicable HUD field office, and the notification shall include supporting documentation of the modernization work under way at the time of the physical inspection. A project or PHA may submit the request for this adjustment either prior to or after the physical inspection has been concluded. If the request is made after the conclusion of the physical inspection, the request must be made within 45 days of issuance of the physical condition score. Based on the recommendation of the applicable HUD office, HUD may determine that a reinspection and rescoring of the PHA's project(s) are necessary.
