
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Physical Condition Indicator
###### ยง 902.26 Physical Inspection Report.

(a) Following the physical inspection of each project and the computation of the score(s) under this subpart, the PHA receives a Physical Inspection Report. The Physical Inspection Report allows the PHA to see the points lost by inspectable area, and the impact on the score of the H&S and EHS deficiencies.

(1) If EHS items are identified in the report, the PHA shall have the opportunity to correct, remedy, or act to abate all EHS deficiencies and may request a reinspection.

(2) The request for reinspection must be made within 45 days of the PHA's receipt of the Physical Inspection Report. The request for reinspection must be accompanied by the PHA's identification of the EHS deficiencies that have been corrected, remedied, or acted upon to abate and by the PHA's certification that all such deficiencies identified in the report have been corrected, remedied, or acted upon to abate.

(3) If HUD determines that a reinspection is appropriate, it will arrange for a complete reinspection of the project(s) in question, not just the deficiencies previously identified. The reinspection will constitute the final physical inspection for the project, and HUD will issue a new inspection report (the final inspection report).

(4) If any of the previously identified EHS deficiencies that the PHA certified were corrected, remedied, or acted upon to abate are found during the reinspection not to have been corrected, remedied, or acted upon to abate, the score in the final inspection report will reflect a point deduction of triple the value of the original deduction, up to the maximum possible points for the unit or area, and the PHA must reimburse HUD for the cost of the reinspection.

(5) If a request for reinspection is not made within 45 days after the date that the PHA receives the Physical Inspection Report, the Physical Inspection Report issued to the PHA will be the final Physical Inspection Report.

(b) A Physical Inspection Report includes the following items:

(1) Normalized weights as the "possible points" by area;

(2) The area scores, taking into account the points deducted for observed deficiencies;

(3) The H&S (nonlife threatening) and EHS (life threatening) deductions for each of the five inspectable areas; a listing of all observed smoke detector deficiencies; and a projection of the total number of H&S and EHS problems that the inspector potentially would see in an inspection of all buildings and all units; and

(4) The overall project score.
