
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart F - PHAS Scoring
###### ยง 902.60 Data collection.
####### Request for waiver of due date for PHA submission of audited financial information.

(c)(1) HUD, for good cause, may grant PHAs a waiver of the due date of the submission of audited financial information to HUD. HUD shall consider written requests from PHAs for a waiver of the report submission due date (established by the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, as no later than 9 months after the end of the fiscal year). The PHA's written request for a waiver of the due date of the submission of audited financial information must include an objectively verifiable justification as to why the PHA cannot submit the information by the submission due date. A PHA shall submit its written request for such a waiver, 30 days prior to the submission due date, to its local field office. HUD shall forward its written determination of the waiver request to the PHA and, if appropriate, establish a new submission due date for the audited financial information.

(2) A waiver of the due date for the submission of audited financial information to HUD does not relieve a PHA of its responsibility to submit its audited information to OMB's Federal Audit Clearinghouse no later than 9 months after the end of its fiscal year.
