
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 902 - PUBLIC HOUSING ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
##### Subpart F - PHAS Scoring
###### ยง 902.68 Technical review of results of PHAS physical condition indicator.
####### Technical review of results of physical inspection results.

(b)(1) For each project inspected, the results of the physical inspection and a score for that project will be provided to the PHA. If the PHA believes that an objectively verifiable and material error(s) occurred in the inspection of an individual project, the PHA may request a technical review of the inspection results for that project. Material errors are the only grounds for technical review of physical inspection results.

(2) A PHA's request for a technical review must be accompanied by the PHA's evidence that an objectively verifiable and material error(s) has occurred. The documentation submitted by the PHA may be photographic evidence; written material from an objective source, such as a local fire marshal or building code official or a licensed or registered architect or professional engineer with the authority to sign and seal or "stamp" documents, thus taking the legal responsibility for them, or other similar evidence that is specific to the inspectable area and item being challenged. The evidence must be more than a disagreement with the inspector's observations, or the inspector's finding regarding the severity of the deficiency.
