
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 903 - PUBLIC HOUSING AGENCY PLANS
##### Subpart B - PHA Plans and Fair Housing Requirements
###### ยง 903.7 What information must a PHA provide in the Annual Plan?
####### A statement of the conversion of public housing to tenant-based assistance.

(j)(1) This statement describes:

(i) Any building or buildings that the PHA is required to convert to tenant-based assistance under section 33 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-5);

(ii) The status of any building or buildings that the PHA may be required to convert to tenant-based assistance under section 202 of the Fiscal Year 1996 HUD Appropriations Act (42 U.S.C. 14371 note); or

(iii) The PHA's plans to voluntarily convert under section 22 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437t).

(2) The statement also must include an analysis of the developments or buildings required to be converted under section 33.

(3) For both voluntary and required conversions, the statement must include the amount of assistance received commencing in Federal Fiscal Year 1999 to be used for rental assistance or other housing assistance in connection with such conversion.

(4) The application and approval processes for required or voluntary conversions are separate approval processes. Approval of the PHA Plan does not constitute approval of these activities.

(5) The information required under this paragraph (j) of this section is applicable to public housing and only that tenant-based assistance which is to be included in the conversion plan.
