
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.101 Introduction.
####### Applicability.

(b)This subpart is applicable to Turnkey III developments operated by LHA. For Turnkey III developments operated by an Indian Housing Authority, applicable provisions are found at 24 CFR part 905, subpart G.

(1) With respect to any development to be operated as Turnkey III, the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) shall contain the "Special Provisions for Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity Project" as set forth in Appendix I. A Turnkey III development may include only units which are to be operated as such under Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreements. If for any reason it is determined that certain units should be operated as conventional rental units, such units must comprise or be made part of a conventional rental project.

(2) With respect to Turnkey III developments pursuant to an executed ACC where no Agreements with Homebuyers have been signed, the ACC shall be amended (i) to include the "Special Provisions" set forth in Appendix I, (ii) to extend its term to 30 years, and (iii) to reduce its Maximum Contribution Percentage to a rate that will amortize the debt in 30 years at the minimum Loan Interest Rate specified in the ACC for the specific Turnkey III project involved. Further development and operation shall be in accordance with this subpart including use of the form of Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement set forth in Appendix II.

(3) With respect to developments where Agreements with homebuyers have been signed, the following steps shall be taken:

(i) The ACC shall be amended to include the Special Provisions" set forth in Appendix I; further development and operation of the Project shall be in accordance with this subpart.

(ii) The LHA shall offer all qualified homebuyers in the development a new Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement as set forth in Appendix II with an amendment to section 16a to refer to "the latest approved Development Cost Budget, or Actual Development Cost Certificate if issued," in lieu of "the Development Cost Budget in effect upon award of the Main Construction Contract or execution of the Contract of Sale," and, if the ACC for the Project has a term of 25 years, an amendment to section 16(b) to refer to a term of 25 years, instead of 30, for the Purchase Price Schedule. Each Purchase Price Schedule shall commence with the first day of the month following the effective date of the initial Agreement. No other modification in the new Agreement may be made. In the event the homebuyer refuses to accept the new Agreement, no modifications may be made in the old Agreement and the matter shall be referred to HUD.

(4) With respect to Projects which were under ACC on the effective date of this subpart, the Total Development Cost Budget shall be revised, if financially feasible, to include the cost of the appraisals which are necessary for computation of the initial purchase prices pursuant to ยง 904.113. In the event this is not financially feasible, the matter shall be referred to HUD, which may, if necessary, authorize a different method for computation of such initial purchase prices on an equitable basis.

(5) With respect to all developments which were completed by the effective date of this subpart, the appraisals which are necessary for computation of the initial purchase prices pursuant to ยง 904.113 shall be made as of the date of completion of the development.
