
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.104 Eligibility and selection of homebuyers.
####### Eligibility and standards for admission.

(b)(1) Homebuyers shall be lower income families that are determined to be eligible for admission in accordance with the provisions of 24 CFR parts 5 and 913, which prescribe income definitions, income limits, and restrictions concerning citizenship or eligible immigration status. The HUD-approved standards for admission to low-rent housing, including the LHA's established priorities and preferences and the requirements for administration of low-rent housing under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241, 42 U.S.C. 2000d), shall be applicable except that the procedures used for homebuyer selection under Turnkey III shall be those set forth in this section. In carrying out these procedures the aim shall be to provide for equal housing opportunity in such a way as to prevent segregation or other discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin in accordance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241, 42 U.S.C. 2000d) and 1968 (Pub. L. 90-284, 82 Stat. 73, 42 U.S.C. 3601).
