
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.104 Eligibility and selection of homebuyers.
####### Selection of homebuyers.

(f)Homebuyers shall be selected from those families determined to have potential for homeownership. Such selection shall be made in sequence from the waiting list established in accordance with this section, provided that the following shall be assured:

(1) Selection procedures that do not automatically deny admission to a particular class; that ensure selection on a nondiscriminatory and nonsegregated basis; that give a Federal preference in accordance with ยง 904.122; and that facilitate achievement of the anticipated results for occupancy stated in the approved Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan.

(2) Achievement of an average monthly payment for the Project, including consideration of the availability of the Special Family Subsidy, which is at least 10 percent more than the breakeven amount for the Project (see ยง 904.108). This standard shall be complied with both in the initial selection of homebuyers and in the subsequent filling of vacancies at all times during the life of the Project. If there is an applicant who has potential for homeownership but whose required monthly payment under the LHA's Rent Schedule would be less than the break-even amount for the suitable size and type of unit, such applicant may be selected as a homebuyer, provided that the incomes of all selected homebuyers shall result in the required average monthly payment of at least 10 percent more than the break-even amount for the Project. Such an average monthly payment for the Project may be achieved by selecting other low-income families who can afford to make required monthly payments substantially above the break-even amounts for their suitable sizes and types of units.
