
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.107 Responsibilities of homebuyer.
####### Homebuyer's required monthly payment.

(j)(1) The term "required monthly payment" as used herein means the monthly payment the homebuyer is required to pay the LHA on or before the first day of each month. The homebuyer's required monthly payment, which is based upon family income, shall be an amount equal to the Tenant Rent as determined in accordance with part 913 of this chapter. If the Utility Allowance, as defined in part 913 of this chapter, exceeds the Homebuyer's Total Tenant Payment, as determined in accordance with part 913, the LHA will pay a utility reimbursement equal to that excess to the Homebuyer, or as provided in ยง 913.108 of this chapter.

(2) For purposes of determining eligibility of an applicant (see 24 CFR parts 5 and 913, as well as this part) and the amount of Homebuyer payments under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the LHA shall examine the family's income and composition and follow the procedures required by 24 CFR part 5 for determining citizenship or eligible immigration status before initial occupancy. Thereafter, for the purposes stated in this paragraph and to determine whether a Homebuyer is required to purchase the home under ยง 904.104(h)(1), the LHA shall reexamine the Homebuyer's income and composition regularly, at least once every 12 months, and shall undertake such further determination and verification of citizenship or eligible immigration status as required by 24 CFR part 5. The Homebuyer shall comply with the LHA's policy regarding required interim reporting of changes in the family's income and composition. If the LHA receives information from the family or other source concerning a change in the family income or other circumstances between regularly scheduled reexaminations, the LHA, upon consultation with the family and verification of the information (in accordance with 24 CFR parts 5 and 913 of this chapter) shall promptly make any adjustments determined to be appropriate in the Homebuyer payment amount or take appropriate action concerning the addition of a family member who is not a citizen with eligible immigration status. Any change in the family's income or other circumstances that results in an adjustment in the Total Tenant Payment and Tenant Rent must be verified.

(3) The LHA shall not refuse to accept monthly payments because of any other charges (other than overdue monthly payments) owed by the homebuyer to the LHA; however, by accepting monthly payments under such circumstances the LHA shall not be deemed to have waived any of its rights and remedies with respect to such other charges.
