
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.107 Responsibilities of homebuyer.
####### Assignment and survivorship.

(l)Until such time as the homebuyer obtains title to the home, it shall be used only to house a family of low income. Therefore:

(1) A homebuyer shall not assign any right or interest in the home or under the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement without the prior written approval of the LHA and HUD;

(2) In the event of death, mental incapacity or abandonment of the family by the homebuyer, the person designated as the successor in the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement shall succeed to the rights and responsibilities under the Agreement if that person is an occupant of the home at the time of the event and is determined by the LHA to meet all of the standards of potential for homeownership as set forth in ยง 904.104(e)(2). Such person shall be designated by the homebuyer at the time the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement is executed. This designation may be changed by the homebuyer at any time. If there is no such designation or the designee is no longer an occupant of the home or does not meet the standards of potential for homeownership, the LHA may consider as the homebuyer any family member who was an occupant at the time of the event and who meets the standards of potential for homeownership.

(3) If there is no qualified successor in accordance with paragraph (l) (2) of this section, the LHA shall terminate the Agreement and another family shall be selected except under the following circumstances: where a minor child or children of the homebuyer family are in occupancy, then in order to protect their continued occupancy and opportunity for acquisition of ownership of the home, the LHA may approve as occupants of the unit, an appropriate adult(s) who has been appointed legal guardian of the children with a duty to perform the obligations of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement in their interest and behalf.
