
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.111 Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve (NRMR).
####### Charges to NRMR.

(c)(1) The LHA shall provide the nonroutine maintenance necessary for the home and the cost thereof shall be funded as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Such maintenance may be provided by the homebuyer but only pursuant to a prior written agreement with the LHA covering the nature and scope of the work and the amount of credit the homebuyer is to receive. The amount of any credit shall, upon completion of the work, be credited to the homebuyer's EHPA and charged as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) The cost of nonroutine maintenance shall be charged to the NRMR for the home except that (i) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the fault or negligence of the homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the homebuyer's EHPA after consultation with the HBA if the hombuyer disagrees, and (ii) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to defective materials or workmanship not covered by warranty, or even though covered by warranty if not paid for thereunder through no fault or negligence of the homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the appropriate operating expense account of the Project.

(3) In the event the amount charged against the NRMR exceeds the balance therein, the difference (deficit) shall be made up from continuing monthly credits to the NRMR based upon the homebuyer's monthly payments. If there is still a deficit when the homebuyer acquires title, the homebuyer shall pay such deficit at settlement (see paragraph (d)(2) of this section).
