
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### ยง 904.114 Payment upon resale at profit.
####### Promissory note.

(a)(1) When a homebuyer achieves ownership (regardless of whether ownership is achieved under ยง 904.113 or ยง 904.115), he shall sign a note obligating him to make a payment to the LHA, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) or this section, in the event he resells his home at a profit within 5 years of actual residence in the home after he becomes a homeowner. If, however, the homeowner should purchase and occupy another home within one year (18 months in case of a newly constructed home) of the resale of the Turnkey III home, the LHA shall refund to the homeowner the amount previously paid by him under the note, less the amount, if any, by which the resale price of the Turnkey III home exceeds the acquisition price of the new home, provided that application for such refund shall be made no later than 30 days after the date of acquisition of the new home.

(2) The note to be signed by the homebuyer pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be a non interest-bearing promissory note (see Appendix IV) to the LHA. The note shall be executed at the time the homebuyer becomes a homeowner and shall be secured by a second mortgage. The initial amount of the note shall be computed by taking the appraised value of the home at the time the homebuyer becomes a homeowner and subtracting (i) the homebuyer's purchase price plus the Incidental Costs and (ii) the increase in value of the home, determined by appraisal, caused by improvements paid for by the homebuyer with funds from sources other than the EHPA or NRMR. The note shall provide that this initial amount shall be automatically reduced by 20 percent thereof at the end of each year of residency as a homeowner, with the note terminating at the end of the five-year period of residency, as determined by the LHA. To protect the homeowner, the note shall provide that the amount payable under it shall in no event be more than the net profit on the resale, that is, the amount by which the resale price exceeds the sum of (A) the homebuyer's purchase price plus the Incidental Costs, (B) the costs of the resale, including commissions and mortgage prepayment penalties, if any, and (C) the increase in value of the home, determined by appraisal, due to improvements paid for by him as a homebuyer (with funds from sources other than the EHPA or NRMR) or as a homeowner.

(3) Amounts collected by the LHA under such notes shall be retained by the LHA for use in making refunds pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. After expiration of the period for the filing of claims for such refunds, any remaining amounts shall be applied (i) to reduce the LHA's capital indebtedness on the Project and (ii) after such indebtedness has been paid, for such purposes as may be authorized or approved by HUD under such Annual Contributions Contract as the LHA may then have with HUD.
