
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 17 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
#### Subpart B - Claims Under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees Claims Act of 1964
##### ยง 17.50 Claims procedures.

(a) Claims by, or on behalf of, employees of field offices shall be filed in writing with the appropriate Regional Counsel. Claims by, or on behalf of, employees of Department Headquarters shall be filed in writing with the General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410.

(b) Each written claim shall contain, as a minimum:

(1) Name, address, place of employment of claimant.

(2) Place and date of loss or damage.

(3) A brief statement of the facts and circumstances surrounding loss or damage.

(4) Cost, date, and place of acquisition of each piece of property lost or damaged.

(5) Two itemized repair estimates, or value estimates, whichever is applicable.

(6) Copies of police reports, if applicable.

(7) With respect to claims involving thefts or losses in quarters or other places where the property was reasonably kept, a statement as to what security precautions were taken to protect the property involved.

(8) With respect to claims involving property being used for the benefit of the Government, a statement by the employee's supervisor evidencing that the claimant was required to provide such property or that his providing it was in the interest of the Government.

(9) Other evidence as may be required by the General Counsel.
