
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 904 - Annual Contributions Contract

( ) Special Provisions for Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity Project No. __________.

(1) The Local Authority agrees to operate the Project in accordance with requirements for the Homeownership Opportunity Program for Low-Income Families (Turnkey III) as prescribed by the Government. The Local Authority shall enter into an agreement with the occupant of each dwelling unit in the Project which agreement shall be in the form of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement approved by the Government, which form provides an opportunity for the acquisition of ownership of the dwelling unit by each occupant who has performed all of the obligations and conditions precedent imposed upon him by such agreement. Upon conveyance of any such dwelling unit, the Local Authority's outstanding obligations in respect to the Project shall be reduced by the amount received for such conveyance, and the Government's obligation for payment of annual contributions in respect to the Project shall be reduced by the amount allocable to the initial purchase price of the dwelling unit. The term "initial purchase price" as used in these Special Provisions shall have the same meaning as in the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement, and the term "dwelling unit" shall have the same meaning as the term "Home" used in the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement.

(2) Failure of the Local Authority to enter into such Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreements at the time and in the form as required by the Government, failure to perform any such agreement, and failure to meet any of its obligations under these Special Provisions shall constitute a Substantial Default under this Contract.

(3) The books of account and records of the Local Authority shall be maintained to meet the requirements of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement as well as the other provisions of this Contract and in such manner as will at all times show the operating receipts, operating expenditures, reserves, residual receipts, and other required accounts for the Project separate and distinct from all other Projects under this Contract.

(4) As of the Date of Full Availability, or at such earlier date as the Government may require, the Local Authority shall determine and submit to the Government for its approval the amount below which the Development Cost of the Project will in no event fall. Upon approval thereof by the Government, such amount shall constitute and be known as the "Minimum Development Cost" of the Project. The Local Authority shall issue its Project Loan Notes, Permanent Notes or Project Notes as the Government may require to finance the Minimum Development Cost. On each Annual Contribution Date the Government shall pay an annual contribution for the Project in an amount equal to the Maximum Contribution Percentage of the latest approved Minimum Development Cost. The first annual contribution shall be paid or made available as of the next Annual Contribution Date following the approval of the Minimum Development Cost of the Project.

(5) Notwithstanding section 403(A)(4), the term "Development Cost" shall include interest on that portion of borrowed monies allocable to the Project for the period ending with the Date of Full Availability or such earlier date as may be specifically approved by the Government.

(6) (a) During the __year Maximum Contribution Period established for the Project, the Local Authority shall, within 60 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, pay to the Government all Residual Receipts of the Project for such Fiscal Year for application to the reduction of Annual Contributions payable by the Government with respect to the Project.

(b) During the period of years immediately following and equal to the Maximum Contribution Period established for the Project, the Local Authority shall, within 60 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, pay to the Government all Residual Receipts of the Project for such Fiscal Year.

(c) Following the end of the Fiscal Year in which the last dwelling unit has been conveyed by the Local Authority, the balance of the operating reserve held by the Local Authority shall be paid to the Government, provided that the aggregate amount of payments under (b) and (c) of this paragraph shall not exceed the aggregate amount of annual contributions paid by the Government with respect to the Project.

(7) No part of the Funds on deposit in the Debt Service Fund or the Advance Amortization Fund with respect to any other Project under this Contract or the funds available for deposit in such Funds for such other Projects, shall be applied to the retirement of Notes issued for this Project, nor shall any such funds on deposit for this Project be used with respect to any other Project or Projects under this Contract.

(8) To the extent that the provisions of this section conflict with other provisions of this Contract, the provisions of this section shall be controlling with respect to the Project.
