
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904 - Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
####### Provided, however,

(2) The term "common property" means the nondwelling structures and equipment, common areas, community facilities, and in some cases certain component parts of dwelling structures, which are contained in the Development:That in the case of a Development that is organized as a condominium or a planned unit development (PUD), the term "common property" shall have the meaning established by the condominium or PUD documents and the State law pursuant to which the condominium or PUD is organized, under the terms, "common areas," "common facilities," "common elements," "common estate," or other similar terms.

(3) The term "Development" means the entire undertaking including all real and personal property, funds and reserves, rights, interests and obligations, and activities related thereto.

(4) The term "EHPA" means the Earned Home Payments Account established and maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Agreement.

(5) The term "Homebuyer" means the member or members of a low-income family who have executed a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement with the Authority.

(6) The term "Homebuyers Association" (HBA) means an organization as defined in section 5 of this Agreement.

(7) The term "Homeowner" means a Homebuyer who has acquired title to his Home.

(8) The term "Homeowners Association" means an association comprised of Homeowners, including condominium associations, having responsibilities with respect to common property.

(9) The term "HUD" means the Department of Housing and Urban Development which provides the Authority with financial assistance through loans and annual contributions and technical assistance in development and operation.

(10) The term "NRMR" means the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve established and maintained pursuant to section 11 of this Agreement.

(11) The term "Project" is used to refer to the Development in relation to matters specifically related to the Annual Contributions Contract.
