
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904 - Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
####### Insurance.

14.a. Until transfer of title to the Homebuyer, the Authority shall carry all insurance prescribed by HUD including fire and extended coverage insurance upon the Home in such form and amount and with such company or companies as it determines. The Authority shall not carry any insurance on the Homebuyer's furniture, clothing, automobile, or any other personal property, or personal liability insurance covering the Homebuyer.

b. In the event the Home is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty, the Authority shall consult with the Homebuyer as to whether the Home shall be repaired or rebuilt. If the Authority determines that the Home should not be repaired or rebuilt but the Homebuyer disagrees, the matter shall be submitted to HUD for final determination. If the final determination is that the Home should not be repaired or rebuilt, the Authority shall terminate this Agreement upon reasonable notice to the Homebuyer. In such case, the Homebuyer shall be paid the balance in his EHPA and (to assist him in connection with relocation expenses) the balance in his NRMR, less amounts, if any, due from him to the Authority, including Monthly Payments he may be obligated to pay.

c. In the event of termination or if the Home must be vacated during the repair period, the Authority will use its best efforts to assist in relocating the Homebuyer. If the Home must be vacated during the repair period, Monthly Payments shall be suspended during the vacancy period.
