
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904 - Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
####### Homeowners Association-Condominium.

22.If the Development is organized as a condominium:

a. The Authority at the outset shall own each condominium unit and the undivided interest of such unit in the common areas.

b. All the land, including that land under the housing units, shall be a part of the common areas.

c. The Homeowners Association shall own no property and shall merely maintain and operate the common areas for the individual owners of the condominium units, except that the Authority shall be responsible for maintenance until such time as the Homeowners Association assumes such responsibility (see section 12 above).

d. The percentage of undivided interest attached to each condominium unit shall be based on the ratio of the value of the unit to the value of all units and shall be fixed when the Development is completed. This percentage shall determine the Homeowner's liability for the maintenance of the common areas and facilities.

e. Each Homeowner vote in the Homeowners Association will be identical with the percentage of undivided interest attached to his unit.

f. The Authority shall not lose its majority voting interest in the Association as soon as units representing more than 50 percent of the value of all units have been conveyed, unless the law of the state requires control to be transferred at a particular time or the Authority so desires. For voting purposes, until units representing 75 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by Homeowners, the total undivided interest attributable to the Homes owned by the Authority shall be multiplied by three, if such weighted voting plan is permitted by state law. Under this plan, the Authority will continue to have voting control until units representing 75 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by Homeowners. However, at its discretion the Authority may transfer voting control to the Homeowners when units representing at least 50 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by the Homeowners.
