
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904 - Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
####### Homeowners Association-Planned Unit Development (PUD)

21.

If the Development is organized as a planned unit development:

a. The common areas, sidewalks, parking lots and other common property in the Development shall be owned and maintained as provided for in the approved planned unit development (PUD) program, except that the Authority shall be responsible for maintenance until such time as the Homeowners Association assumes such responsibility (see section 12 above).

b. The title ultimately conveyed to the Homebuyer shall be subject to restrictions and encumbrances to protect the rights and property of all other Homeowners. The Homeowners Association shall have the right and obligation to enforce such restrictions and encumbrances and to assess Homeowners for the costs incurred in connection with common areas and property and other responsibilities.

c. There shall be as many votes in the Association as there are Homes in the Development, and at the outset all the voting rights will be held by the Authority. As each Home is conveyed to a Homebuyer, one vote shall automatically go to that Homebuyer so that when all the Homes have been conveyed, the Authority shall no longer have any interest in the Homeowners Association.

d. The Authority shall not lose its majority voting interest in the Association as soon as a majority of the Homes have been conveyed, unless the law of the state requires control to be transferred at a particular time or the Authority so desires. If permitted by state law, provisions shall be made for each Home owned by the Authority to carry three votes while each Home owned by a Homeowner shall carry one vote. Under this weighted voting plan, the Authority will continue to have voting control until 75 percent of the Homes have been acquired by Homeowners. However, at its discretion, the Authority may transfer voting control to the Homeowners when at least 50 percent of the Homes have been acquired by the Homeowners.
