
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 904 - LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
##### Subpart B - Turnkey III Program Description
###### Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904 - Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
####### Transfer to rental unit.

c.(1) Inasmuch as the Homebuyer was found eligible for admission to the Project on the basis of having the necessary elements, of potential for Homeownership, continuation of eligibility requires continuation of this potential, subject only to temporary unforeseen changes in circumstances. The standards of potential for Homeownership are the following:

(i) Income sufficient to result in a required monthly payment which is not less than the sum of the amounts necessary to pay the EHPA, the NRMR, and the estimated average monthly cost of utilities attributable to the Home;

(ii) Ability to meet all the obligations of a Homebuyer under the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement;

(iii) At least one member gainfully employed, or having an established source of continuing income.

(2) Accordingly, in the event it should develop that the Homebuyer no longer meets one or more of these elements of Homeownership potential, the Authority shall investigate the circumstances and provide such counseling and assistance as may be feasible in order to help the family overcome the deficiency as promptly as possible. After a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of evaluation of the results of the investigation, the Authority shall make a re-evaluation as to whether the family has regained the potential for Homeownership or is likely to do so within a further reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of the re-evaluation. Further extension of time may be granted in exceptional cases, but in any event a final determination shall be made no later than 90 days from the date of evaluation of the results of the initial investigation. The Authority shall invite the HBA to participate in all investigations and evaluations.

(3) If the final determination of the Authority, after considering the views of the HBA, is that the Homebuyer should be transferred to a suitable dwelling unit in an Authority rental project, the Authority shall give the Homebuyer written notice of the Authority determination of the loss of Homeownership potential and of the offer of transfer to a rental unit. The notice shall state that the transfer shall occur as soon as a suitable rental unit is available for occupancy but no earlier than 30 days from the date of the notice, provided that an eligible successor for the Homebuyer unit has been selected by the Authority. The notice shall also state that if the Homebuyer should refuse to move under such circumstances, the family may be required to vacate the Homebuyer unit, without further notice. The notice shall include a statement (i) that the Homebuyer may respond to the Authority in writing or in person, within a specified reasonable time, regarding the reason for the determination and offer of transfer, (ii) that in such response he may be represented or accompanied by a person of his choice including a representative of the HBA, and (iii) that the Authority has consulted the HBA concerning this determination and offer of transfer.

(4) When a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement is terminated pursuant to this paragraph 24c, the amount in the Homebuyer's EHPA shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10k of this Agreement.
