
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligible Activities
###### ยง 905.200 Eligible activities.
####### Energy efficiency.

(14)Allowed costs include:

(i) Energy audit or updated energy audits to the extent Operating Funds are not available and the energy audit is included within a modernization program.

(ii) Integrated utility management and capital planning to promote energy conservation and efficiency measures.

(iii) Energy and water conservation measures identified in a PHA's most recently updated energy audit.

(iv) Improvement of energy and water-use efficiency by installing fixtures and fittings that conform to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers/American National Standards Institute standards A112.19.2-1998 and A112.18.1-2000, or any revision thereto, applicable at the time of installation, and by increasing energy efficiency and water conservation by such other means as the Secretary determines are appropriate.

(v) The installation and use of Energy Star appliances whenever energy systems, devices, and appliances are replaced, unless it is not cost-effective to do so, in accordance with Section 152 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, 42 U.S.C. 15841.

(vi) Utility and energy management system automation, and metering activities, including changing mastermeter systems to individually metered systems if installed as a part of a modernization activity to upgrade utility systems; for example, electric, water, or gas systems of the PHA consistent with the requirements of 24 CFR part 965.
