
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligible Activities
###### ยง 905.204 Emergencies and natural disasters.
####### Procedure for an emergency or a final request for natural disaster funds.

(e)In the request the PHA shall:

(1) Identify the public housing project(s) with the emergency or natural disaster condition(s).

(2) Identify and provide the date of the conditions that present an unforeseen or unpreventable threat to the health, life, or safety of residents, in the case of emergency; or Natural disaster (e.g., hurricane, tornado, etc.).

(3) Describe the activities that will be undertaken to correct the emergency or the conditions caused by the natural disaster and the estimated cost.

(4) Provide an independent assessment of the extent of and the cost to correct the condition. The assessment must be specific as to the damage and costs associated with the emergency or natural disaster. An independent estimate of damage and repair cost is required as a part of the final natural disaster application. For natural disasters, the assessment must identify damage specifically caused by the natural disaster. The set-aside can be used only to pay costs to repair or replace a public housing project damaged as a result of the natural disaster, not for nonroutine maintenance or other improvements.

(5) Provide a copy of a currently effective DOT covering the property and an opinion of counsel that there are no preexisting liens or other encumbrances on the property.

(6) Demonstrate that without the requested funds from the set-aside, the PHA does not have adequate funds available to correct the emergency condition(s).

(7) Identify all other sources of available funds (e.g., insurance proceeds, FEMA).

(8) Any other material required by HUD.
