
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - General Program Requirements
###### ยง 905.300 Capital fund submission requirements.
####### Budget.

(ii)The Capital Fund Budget for each of the 5 years shall be prepared by a PHA using the form(s) prescribed by HUD. Work items listed in the budget must include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) Where a PHA has an approved Capital Fund Financing Program (CFFP) loan, debt service payments for the grants from which the payments are scheduled;

(B) Where a PHA has an approved CFFP loan, the PHA shall also include all work and costs, including debt service payments, in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan. Work associated with the use of financing proceeds will be reported separately in a form and manner prescribed by HUD; or

(C) Work affecting health and safety and compliance with regulatory requirements such as section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8, and the lead-based paint poisoning prevention standards at 24 CFR part 35, before major systems (e.g., heating, roof, etc.) and other costs of lower priority.

(iii) PHA Criteria for Significant Amendment or Modification. The PHA must include in the basic criteria that the PHA will use for determining a significant amendment or modification to the CFP 5-Year Action Plan. In addition to the criteria established by the PHA, for the purpose of the CFP, a proposed demolition, disposition, homeownership, Capital Fund financing, development, or mixed-finance proposal are considered significant amendments to the CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
