
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - General Program Requirements
###### ยง 905.300 Capital fund submission requirements.
####### Submission.

(iv)The PHA must submit a Board-approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan at least once every 5 years. The PHA may choose to update its CFP 5-Year Action Plan every year. The PHA shall indicate whether its CFP 5-Year Action Plan is fixed or rolling. Prior to submission to HUD, the 5-Year Action Plan must have been approved by the PHA's Board of Commissioners. In any given year that a PHA does not have a CFP 5-Year Action Plan that is approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD, the Capital Fund grant(s) for these PHAs will be reserved and obligated; however, the PHA will not have access to those funds until its CFP 5-Year Action Plan is approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD.

(v) Significant amendments or modification to the CFP 5 Year Action Plan. PHAs making significant amendments or modifications to the CFP 5-Year Action Plan, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, must follow the requirements of this section.

(A) A PHA after submitting its 5-Year Action Plan may amend or modify the plan. If the amendment or modification is a significant amendment or modification, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the PHA:

(1) May not adopt the amendment or modification until the PHA has duly called a meeting of its Board of Commissioners (or similar governing body) and the meeting at which the amendment or modification is adopted, is open to the public; and

(2) May not implement the amendment or modification until notification of the amendment or modifications are provided to HUD and approved by HUD in accordance with HUD's plan review procedures, as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(B) Each significant amendment or modification to a plan submitted to HUD is subject to the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
