
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - General Program Requirements
###### ยง 905.314 Cost and other limitations.
####### Administrative cost limits and Capital Fund Program Fee.

(h)(1) Administrative cost limits (for non-asset-management PHAs). The PHA shall not budget or expend more than 10 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant on administrative costs, in accordance with the CFP 5-Year Action Plan.

(2) Capital Fund Program Fee (for asset-management PHAs). For a PHA that is under asset management, the Capital Fund Program Fee and administrative cost limits are the same. For the Capital Fund Program Fee, a PHA may charge a management fee of up to 10 percent of the annual CFP formula grant(s) amount, excluding emergency and disaster grants and also excluding any costs related to lead-based paint or asbestos testing, in-house architectural and engineering work, or other special administrative costs required by state or local law.

(i) Modernization. The PHA shall not budget or expend more than 10 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant on administrative costs, in accordance with its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. The 10 percent limit excludes any costs related to lead-based paint or asbestos testing, in-house Architectural and Engineering work, or other special administrative costs required by state or local law.

(ii) Development. For development work with Capital Fund and RHF grants, the administrative cost limit is 3 percent of the total project budget, or, with HUD's approval, up to 6 percent of the total project budget.
