
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Capital Fund Formula
###### ยง 905.400 Capital Fund formula (CF formula).
####### PHAs with fewer than 250 units in FFY 1999.

(4)The estimates of the existing modernization need shall be based on the following:

(i) Objective measurable data concerning the PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:

(A) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 1427.1);

(B) The total number of units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 24.3);

(C) The proportion of units in a project in buildings completed in 1978 or earlier. In the case of acquired projects, HUD shall use the DOFA date unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion, in which case HUD shall use the actual date of construction completion (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: -1389.7);

(D) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area, as of FFY 1999. (Equation coefficient: -20163);

(E) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the Census Bureau during FFY 1996. (Equation coefficient: 6157.7);

(F) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 4379.2);

(G) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 3747.7);

(H) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: -2073.5); and

(ii) An equation constant of 24762.
