
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Capital Fund Formula
###### ยง 905.400 Capital Fund formula (CF formula).
####### Allocation for accrual needs under the CF formula.

(e)HUD shall allocate the other half of the remaining Capital Fund amount based on the relative accrual needs of PHAs, determined in accordance with this paragraph of this section.

(1) PHAs with 250 or more units, except the New York City and Chicago Housing Authorities. The estimates of the accrual need shall be based on the following:

(i) Objective measurable data concerning the following PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:

(A) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 324.0);

(B) The extent to which the buildings in a project average fewer than 5 units. (Equation coefficient: 93.3);

(C) The age of a project, as determined by the DOFA date. In the case of acquired projects, HUD shall use the DOFA date unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion, in which case HUD shall use the actual date of construction (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: -7.8);

(D) Whether the development is a family project. (Equation coefficient: 184.5);

(E) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area. (Equation coefficient: -252.8);

(F) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the Census Bureau during FFY 1996. (Equation coefficient: -121.3);

(G) PHA size of 6,600 or more units in FFY 1999. (Equation coefficient: -150.7);

(H) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 28.4);

(I) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: -116.9);

(J) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 60.7); and

(ii) An equation constant of 1371.9.

(2) For the New York City and Chicago Housing Authorities, based on a large sample of direct inspections. Prior to the cost calibration in paragraph (e)(4) of this section the number used for the accrual need of family developments is $1,395 in New York City, and $1,251 in Chicago, and the number for elderly developments is $734 in New York City and $864 in Chicago.

(3) PHAs with fewer than 250 units. The estimates of the accrual need shall be based on the following:

(i) Objective measurable data concerning the following PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:

(A) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 325.5);

(B) The extent to which the buildings in a project average fewer than 5 units. (Equation coefficient: 179.8);

(C) The age of a project, as determined by the DOFA date. In the case of acquired projects, HUD shall use the DOFA date unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion. When provided with the actual date of construction completion, HUD shall use this date (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: -9.0);

(D) Whether the project is a family development. (Equation coefficient: 59.3);

(E) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area. (Equation coefficient: -1570.5);

(F) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the Census Bureau during FFY 1996. (Equation coefficient: -122.9);

(G) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: -564.0);

(H) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: -29.6);

(I) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: -418.3); and

(ii) An equation constant of 3193.6.
