
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Use of Capital Funds for Financing
###### ยง 905.505 Program requirements.
####### CFP Plan.

(h)(1) The use of the CFFP proceeds shall be included in a form and manner as required by HUD for CFP planning and budgeting and in a same manner as a Capital Fund grant. The CFFP proceeds shall be included as a separate Capital Fund grant to the same extent that PHAs are required to plan and budget Capital Fund grants. The use of Capital Funds for the payment of debt service and related costs shall be planned and budgeted as would other eligible uses of Capital Funds.

(2) As part of its Capital Fund Financing Proposal, the PHA shall submit a Capital Fund financing budget, in the form and manner required by HUD, detailing the proposed use of the Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds. There shall be no requirement for PHAs to submit a Capital Fund financing budget as part of their Capital Fund financing proceeds where the sizing of the financing is based upon the use of RHF funds for debt service, or where the Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds are being used as part of a mixed-finance transaction. Approval letters for mixed-finance and RHF-related Capital Fund financing transactions shall be conditioned upon the approval of the mixed-finance proposal, or, in the case of conventional development, upon the approval of the development proposal and the execution of an associated construction contract with which the Capital Fund financing proceeds would be used.

(3) The work financed with Capital Funds and described in the Capital Fund financing budget will be based on the physical needs assessment. The Capital Fund financing budget shall list the work items (e.g., roof replacement, window replacement, accessibility modifications) by development. These work items will constitute performance measures upon which the PHA's performance will be evaluated. A general representation of the work (e.g., "rehabilitation of the development") is not sufficient.

(4) The CFP Plan (submission (as described in paragraph (h) of this section) shall include a copy of the physical needs assessment described in ยง 905.505(g).

(5) Financing proceeds under this part may be used only for the modernization or development of public housing and related costs including the modernization or development of non-dwelling space. Financing proceeds may not be used for administration or central office cost center costs (except for mixed-finance projects), management improvements, or upon non-viable projects, such as those subject to required conversion. Financing proceeds may be used to reimburse predevelopment costs, but only to the extent they were incurred in conformance with applicable regulatory requirements.
