
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Use of Capital Funds for Financing
###### ยง 905.505 Program requirements.
####### Need for financing.

(g)(1) A PHA must complete a physical needs assessment at the project level, in the form and manner prescribed by HUD that covers the PHA's entire public housing portfolio for the term of the financing and that takes into consideration existing needs and the lifecycle repair and replacement of major building components. The activity to be financed must be identified as a need in the physical needs assessment.

(2) Based on the assessment under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the PHA must demonstrate that the financing will not negatively impact the ability of the PHA to meet the ongoing needs of its public housing portfolio over the term of the financing. In making this demonstration, PHAs must reduce any projected future Capital Fund grants to account for planned or anticipated activities that would have the effect of reducing or otherwise limiting the availability of future Capital Fund grants. PHA projections must be detailed on the portfolio schedule form prescribed by HUD, and shall project a stabilized number of units (Stabilized Base Unit Count) to be reached in no more than 5 years after all planned or anticipated activities have been completed that would reduce future Capital Fund grants. PHAs must also take into consideration projected use of Capital Funds for other eligible activities under part 905, and may take into consideration alternative sources of financing that are available to help meet its needs.

(3) For PHAs that are proposing to borrow more than $2 million on a cumulative basis, to the extent that:

(i) Capital and other eligible Capital Fund needs exceed projected Capital Fund program funding amounts, and the PHA is not leveraging non-public housing funds as part of its Capital Fund Financing Proposal transaction, then

(ii) The PHA must demonstrate that it has considered leveraging non-public housing funds, and state why the proposed financing is appropriate in light of alternative sources available.

(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, PHAs that size their financing by utilizing only replacement housing factor (RHF) funds, or PHAs that propose to use their Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds as part of a mixed-finance modernization transaction, are not required to comply with ยง 905.505(g).
