
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Use of Capital Funds for Financing
###### ยง 905.505 Program requirements.
####### Debt Coverage Percentage.

(i)(1) Except as stated in ยง 905.505(i)(2), a PHA shall not pledge more than 33 percent of its annual future Capital Fund grants for debt service payments, assuming level Capital Fund appropriations over the term of the debt obligation and any reduction attributable to activities projected by the PHA to occur during the term of the financing such as demolition, disposition, or conversion of public housing units or other occurrences that could limit the availability of Capital Funds, including a voluntary compliance agreement. This percentage of Capital Funds dedicated for debt service, taking into account adjustments for activities that would reduce the receipt of Capital Funds, is called the "Debt Coverage Percentage."

(2) A PHA may pledge up to 100 percent of any projected replacement housing factor (RHF) grants for debt service payments, provided that the pledge extends to the formula fund portion of its Capital Fund grants also, but that not more than 50 percent of its overall projected Capital Fund grants (including formula funds and RHF funds) are pledged. RHF projections shall account for any projected reductions in RHF over the term of the financing. Unless otherwise approved by HUD, PHAs shall be limited to sizing their loans based upon increments of RHF currently being received by the PHA. CFFP transactions pledging RHF funds shall include accelerated amortization provisions, requiring all RHF funds received by the PHA to pay debt service as those RHF funds are received. A RHF grant shall be used only to develop or pay financing costs for the development of replacement public housing units in accordance with ยง 905.10.

(3) Subject to the reasonableness test in ยง 905.505(a)(2), PHAs may exceed 33 percent when pledging existing Capital Fund grants and RHF grants for the payment of debt service. Existing grants are grants that have been received by the PHA at the time of HUD's approval of the Capital Fund Financing Proposal.
