
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Use of Capital Funds for Financing
###### ยง 905.515 HUD review and approval.

(a) After receipt of a Capital Fund Financing Proposal, HUD shall review the proposal for completeness. HUD will return to the PHA all incomplete or unapprovable proposals, identifying the deficiencies, and will not take any further action. HUD will also return proposals submitted by entities other than the PHA (e.g., the PHA's consultants). HUD shall review all complete proposals for compliance with the requirements under this subpart. HUD may require the PHA to make modifications to any of the CFFP documents submitted and may require the PHA to resubmit all or any portion of the proposal. After HUD determines that a proposal complies with all applicable requirements, HUD shall notify the PHA in writing of its approval and any condition(s) of the approval.

(b) (1) A copy or copies of the CFF ACC Amendment shall accompany the approval letter.

(2) Within 60 days of the date of HUD's approval of the transaction or, if HUD sets conditions on its approval, within 60 days of the date that the PHA satisfies such conditions (as evidenced by documentation retained in the PHA's file and available to HUD upon request), but in no event longer than 120 days after the HUD approval, unless the time has otherwise been extended by HUD in writing, the PHA must submit:

(i) Closing documents as directed by HUD; and

(ii) All documents required by HUD to take certain actions such as initiating debt service payments through HUD's automated systems.

(3) Failure to provide the required documents to HUD within the time frame required under ยง 905.515(b)(2) may result in HUD rescinding its approval.
