
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Development Requirements
###### ยง 905.600 General.
####### Development process.

(c)The general development process for public housing development, using any method and with any financing, is as follows:

(1) The PHA will identify a site to be acquired or a public housing project to be developed or redeveloped. The PHA or its Partner and/or the Owner Entity will prepare a site acquisition proposal pursuant to ยง 905.608 of this part and/or a development proposal pursuant to ยง 905.606 of this part for submission to HUD or as otherwise directed by HUD. The PHA may request predevelopment funding necessary for preparation of the acquisition proposal and/or development proposal, as stated in ยง 905.612(a) of this part.

(2) The PHA must consult with affected residents prior to submission of an acquisition proposal, development proposal, or both to HUD to solicit resident input into development of the public housing project.

(3) After HUD approval of the site acquisition proposal and/or development proposal, HUD and the PHA shall execute the applicable ACC Amendment for the public housing units and record a Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants on all property acquired and/or to be developed. The PHA may then commence development of the units.

(4) Upon completion of the public housing project, the PHA will establish the DOFA. After the DOFA, the PHA will submit a cost certificate to HUD attesting to the actual cost of the project that will be subject to audit.
