
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Development Requirements
###### ยง 905.604 Mixed-finance development.
####### Structure of projects.

(c)Each mixed-finance project must be structured to:

(1) Ensure the continued operation of the public housing units in accordance with all Public Housing Requirements;

(2) Ensure that public housing funds committed to a mixed-finance project are used only to pay for costs associated with the public housing units, including such costs as demolition, site work, infrastructure, and common area improvements.

(3) To ensure that the amount of public housing funds committed to a project is proportionate to the number of public housing units contained in the project. To meet this "pro rata test," the proportion of public housing funds compared to total project funds committed to a project must not exceed the proportion of public housing units compared to total number of units contained in the project. For example, if there are a total of 120 units in the project and 50 are public housing units, the public housing units are 42 percent of the total number of units in the project. Therefore the amount of public housing funds committed to the project cannot exceed 42 percent of the total project budget, unless otherwise approved by the Secretary. However, if public housing funds are to be used to pay for more than the pro rata cost of common area improvements, HUD will evaluate the proposal to ensure that common area improvements will benefit the residents in the development in a mixed-income project; and

(4) Ensure that the project is within the Total Development Cost (TDC) and Housing Construction Cost (HCC) limits pursuant to ยง 905.314(c) and (d) of this part.
