
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Development Requirements
###### ยง 905.604 Mixed-finance development.
####### Operating Subsidy-Only Development.

(2)Operating Subsidy-Only Development refers to mixed-finance projects where public housing units are developed without the use of public housing funds, but for which HUD agrees to provide operating subsidies under Section 9(e) of the 1937 Act. These types of project are subject to the following provisions:

(i) The newly developed public housing units will be included in the calculation of the Capital Fund formula in ยง 905.400 of this part.

(ii) An ACC Amendment will be executed to include the new public housing units. The term of the ACC Amendment will be determined based on the assistance as provided in ยง 905.304, unless reduced by the Secretary.

(iii) There shall be no disposition of the public housing units without the prior written approval of HUD, during, and for 10 years after the end of, the period in which the public housing units receive operating subsidy from the PHA, as required by 42 U.S.C. 1437g(3), as those requirements may be amended from time to time. However, if the PHA is no longer able to provide operating subsidies to the Owner Entity pursuant to Section 9(e) of the 1937 Act, the PHA may (on behalf of the Owner Entity) request that HUD terminate the Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, as applicable. Termination under this section does not require disposition approval from HUD pursuant to Section 18 of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437p. However, the PHA must provide public housing residents with a decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable unit to which they can relocate, which may include a public housing unit in another development or a Housing Choice Voucher, and pay for the tenant's reasonable moving costs. The URA is not applicable in this situation.

(iv) Where the PHA elects in the future to use public housing funds for modernization of these units, the PHA must execute an ACC Amendment with a 20-year use restriction and record a Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, in accordance with ยง 905.304. There may be no disposition of the public housing units without the prior written approval of HUD during the 20-year period, and the public housing units shall be maintained and operated in accordance with all applicable Public Housing Requirements (including the ACC), as those requirements may be amended from time to time.
