
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Development Requirements
###### ยง 905.604 Mixed-finance development.
####### HUD review.

(3)HUD will review the Alternative Management Plan to ensure that the plan meets the requirements of this subpart and that any proposed deviation from the Public Housing Requirements will be implemented only to the extent necessary to preserve the viability of the public housing units. Upon completion of HUD's review, HUD will either approve or disapprove the Alternative Management Plan. Reasons for HUD disapproval may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) The justification for deviation from the Public Housing Requirements does not qualify in accordance with section 35(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-7(h)).

(ii) The proposed deviation(s) from the Public Housing Requirements are not limited to preserving the viability of the public housing units.

(iii) The information that HUD requires to be included in the Alternative Management Plan has not been included, is not accurate, or does not support the need for deviation from the Public Housing Requirements.

(iv) HUD has evidence that the proposed Alternative Management Plan is not in compliance with other federal requirements, including civil rights laws.
