
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 905 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Development Requirements
###### § 905.612 Disbursement of Capital Funds - predevelopment costs.
####### Predevelopment costs.

(a)After a new development project has been included in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan that has been approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD, a PHA may use funding for predevelopment expenses. Predevelopment funds may be expended in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) Predevelopment assistance may be used to pay for materials and services related to proposal development and project soft costs. It may also be used to pay for costs related to the demolition of units on a proposed site. Absent HUD approval, predevelopment assistance may not be used to pay for site work, installation of infrastructure, construction, or other hard costs related to a development.

(2) For non-mixed-finance projects, predevelopment funding up to 5 percent of the total amount of the public housing funds committed to a project does not require HUD approval. HUD shall determine on a case-by-case basis that an amount greater than 5 percent may be drawn down by a PHA to pay for necessary and reasonable predevelopment costs, based upon a consideration of the nature and scope of activities proposed to be carried out by the PHA. Before a request for predevelopment assistance in excess of 5 percent may be approved, the PHA must provide to HUD information and documentation specified in §§ 905.606 and 905.608 of this part, as HUD deems appropriate.

(3) For mixed-finance projects, all funding for predevelopment costs must be reviewed and approved by HUD prior to expenditure.

(4) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section to disburse funds for mixed-financed projects in an approved ratio to other public and private funding do not apply to disbursement of predevelopment funds.
