
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 945 - DESIGNATED HOUSING - PUBLIC HOUSING DESIGNATED FOR OCCUPANCY BY DISABLED, ELDERLY, OR DISABLED AND ELDERLY FAMILIES
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval Procedures
###### ยง 945.203 Allocation plan.
####### Strategy for addressing the current and future housing needs of the families in the PHA's jurisdiction.

(6)The PHA must:

(i) Identify the housing resources currently owned or controlled by the PHA, including any mixed population projects, in existence, as provided in 24 CFR part 960, subpart D, that will be available to these families;

(ii) Describe the steps to be taken by the PHA to respond to any need for accessible units that will no longer be available for applicants who need them. The PHA has a continuing obligation under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) to provide accessible dwellings even if the project designation removes accessible dwellings from the inventory of possible dwellings for non-elderly persons with disabilities;

(iii) If a project is being designated for elderly families, describe the steps the PHA will take to facilitate access to supportive services by non-elderly disabled families. The services should be equivalent to those available in the designated project and requested by non-elderly disabled families. If the PHA funds supportive services for the designated project for elderly families, the PHA must provide the same level of services, upon the request of non-elderly disabled families.

(iv) If a project is being designated for elderly families, identify the additional housing resources that the PHA determines will be sufficient to provide assistance to not less than the number of non-elderly disabled families that would have been housed by the PHA if occupancy in units in the designated project were not restricted to elderly families (one-for-one replacement is not required). Among these resources may be:

(A) Normal turnover in existing projects;

(B) Existing housing stock that previously was not available to or considered for non-elderly disabled families. Examples are dwellings in general occupancy (family) projects that are reconfigured to meet the dwelling size needs of the non-elderly disabled families, or were previously occupied by elderly families who will relocate to the designated project for elderly families, or were previously vacant because there had not been a demand for dwellings of that size in that location;

(C) Housing for which the PHA has received preliminary notification that it will obtain; and

(D) Housing for which the PHA plans to apply during the period covered by the allocation plan, and which it has a reasonable expectation of obtaining.

(v) Where a project is being designated for elderly families, explain how the PHA plans to secure the required additional housing resources. In the case of housing for which the PHA plans to apply, the PHA must provide sufficient information about the housing resource and its application to establish that the PHA can reasonably expect to obtain the housing.

(vi) Describe incentives, if any, that the PHA intends to offer to:
