
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 945 - DESIGNATED HOUSING - PUBLIC HOUSING DESIGNATED FOR OCCUPANCY BY DISABLED, ELDERLY, OR DISABLED AND ELDERLY FAMILIES
##### Subpart B - Application and Approval Procedures
###### ยง 945.205 Designated housing for disabled families.
####### General.

(a)(1) In general, HUD will approve designated projects for disabled families only if there is a clear demonstration that there is both a need and a demand by disabled families for such designation. In the absence of such demonstrated need and demand, PHAs should provide for the housing needs of disabled families in the most integrated setting possible.

(2) To designate a project for disabled families, a PHA must submit the allocation plan required by ยง 945.203 and the supportive service plan described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) In its allocation plan,

(i) The PHA may not designate a project for persons with a specific disability;

(ii) The designated project does not have to be made up of contiguous units. PHAs are encouraged to place the units in the project, whether contiguous or not, in the most integrated setting possible.

(4) The consultation process for the allocation plan provided in ยง 945.203(b) and consultation process for the supportive service plan provided in this section may occur concurrently.

(5) If the PHA conducts surveys to determine the need or demand for a designated project for disabled families or for supportive services in such project, the PHA must protect the confidentiality of the survey responses.
