
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart B - Admission
###### ยง 960.205 Drug use by applicants: Obtaining information from drug treatment facility.
####### PHA request for information from drug use treatment facility.

(d)(1) The PHA may request that a drug abuse treatment facility disclose whether the drug abuse treatment facility has reasonable cause to believe that the proposed household member is currently engaging in the illegal use of a drug (as defined in ยง 5.100 of this title).

(2) The PHA's request to the drug abuse treatment facility must include a copy of the consent form signed by the proposed household member.

(3) A drug abuse treatment facility is not liable for damages based on any information required to be disclosed under this section if such disclosure is consistent with section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2).

(4) The PHA is not obligated to request information from a drug treatment facility under this section, and is not liable for damages for failing to request or receive such information.

(5) A drug abuse treatment facility may charge the PHA a reasonable fee for information provided under this section. The PHA may not pass along to the applicant or tenant the costs of obtaining this information.
