
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart B - Admission
###### § 960.206 Waiting list: Local preferences in admission to public housing program.
####### Establishment of PHA local preferences.

(a)(1) The PHA may adopt a system of local preferences for selection of families admitted to the PHA's public housing program. The PHA system of selection preferences must be based on local housing needs and priorities as determined by the PHA. In determining such needs and priorities, the PHA shall use generally accepted data sources. Such sources include public comment on the PHA plan (as received pursuant to § 903.17 of this chapter), and on the consolidated plan for the relevant jurisdiction (as received pursuant to part 91 of this title).

(2) The PHA may limit the number of applicants that qualify for any local preference.

(3) PHA adoption and implementation of local preferences is subject to HUD requirements concerning income-targeting (§ 960.202(b)), deconcentration and income-mixing (§ 903.7), and selection preferences for developments designated exclusively for elderly or disabled families or for mixed population developments (§ 960.407).

(4) The PHA must inform all applicants about available preferences and must give applicants an opportunity to show that they qualify for available preferences.
