
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart C - Rent and Reexamination
###### ยง 960.253 Choice of rent.
####### Flat rent

(b). The flat rent is determined annually, based on the market rental value of the unit as determined by this paragraph (b).

(1) The PHA must establish a flat rent for each public housing unit that is no less than 80 percent of the applicable Fair Market Rent (FMR) as determined under 24 CFR part 888, subpart A; or

(2) HUD may permit a flat rent of no less than 80 percent of an applicable small area FMR (SAFMR) or unadjusted rent, if applicable, as determined by HUD, or any successor determination, that more accurately reflects local market conditions and is based on an applicable market area that is geographically smaller than the applicable market area used in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If HUD has not determined an applicable SAFMR or unadjusted rent, the PHA must rely on the applicable FMR under paragraph (b)(1) or may apply for an exception flat rent under paragraph (b)(3).

(3) The PHA may request, and HUD may approve, on a case-by-case basis, a flat rent that is lower than the amounts in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, subject to the following requirements:

(i) The PHA must submit a market analysis of the applicable market.

(ii) The PHA must demonstrate, based on the market analysis, that the proposed flat rent is a reasonable rent in comparison to rent for other comparable unassisted units, based on the location, quality, size, unit type, and age of the public housing unit and any amenities, housing services, maintenance, and utilities to be provided by the PHA in accordance with the lease.

(iii) All requests for exception flat rents under this paragraph (b)(3) must be submitted to HUD.

(4) For units where utilities are tenant-paid, the PHA must adjust the flat rent downward by the amount of a utility allowance for which the family might otherwise be eligible under 24 CFR part 965, subpart E.

(5) The PHA must revise, if necessary, the flat rent amount for a unit no later than 90 days after HUD issues new FMRs.

(6) If a new flat rent would cause a family's rent to increase by more than 35 percent, the family's rent increase must be phased in at 35 percent annually until such time that the family chooses to pay the income-based rent or the family is paying the flat rent established pursuant to this paragraph.
