
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart E - Occupancy by Over-Income Families or Police Officers
###### ยง 960.507 Families exceeding the income limit.
####### Notifying over-income families.

(c)(1) If the PHA determines the family has exceeded the over-income limit pursuant to an income examination, the PHA must provide written notice to the family of the over-income determination no later than 30 days after the income examination. The notice must state that the family has exceeded the over-income limit and continuing to exceed the over-income limit for a total of 24 consecutive months will result in the PHA following its continued occupancy policy for over-income families in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Pursuant to 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, the PHA must afford the family an opportunity for a hearing if the family disputes within a reasonable time the PHA's determination that the family has exceeded the over-income limit.

(2) The PHA must conduct an income examination 12 months after the initial over-income determination described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the PHA determined the family's income fell below the over-income limit since the initial over-income determination. If the PHA determines the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 12 consecutive months, the PHA must provide written notification of this 12-month over-income determination no later than 30 days after the income examination that led to the 12-month over-income determination. The notice must state that the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 12 consecutive months and continuing to exceed the over-income limit for a total of 24 consecutive months will result in the PHA following its continued occupancy policy for over-income families in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Additionally, if applicable under PHA policy, the notice must include an estimate (based on current data) of the alternative non-public housing rent for the family's unit. Pursuant to 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, the PHA must afford the family an opportunity for a hearing if the family disputes within a reasonable time the PHA's determination that the family has exceeded the over-income limit.

(3) The PHA must conduct an income examination 24 months after the initial over-income determination described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the PHA determined the family's income fell below the over-income limit since the second over-income determination. If the PHA determines the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 24 consecutive months, then the PHA must provide written notification of this 24-month over-income determination no later than 30 days after the income examination that led to the 24-month over-income determination. The notice must state:

(i) That the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 24 consecutive months.

(ii) That the PHA must either terminate the family's tenancy or charge the family the alternative non-public housing rent, in accordance with it continued occupancy policy for over-income families in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(A) If the PHA determines that under its policy the family's tenancy must be terminated in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the notice must inform the family of this determination and state the period of time before tenancy termination.

(B) If the PHA determines that under its policy the family must be charged the alternative non-public housing rent in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, then the notice must inform the family of this determination and state that the family be charged the alternative non-public housing rent in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The PHA must also present the family with a new lease, in accordance with the requirements at ยง 960.509, and inform the family that the lease must be executed no later than 60 days of the date of the notice or at the next lease renewal, whichever is sooner.

(iii) Pursuant to 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, the PHA must afford the family an opportunity for a hearing if the family disputes within a reasonable time the PHA's determination that the family has exceeded the over-income limit.

(4) If, at any time during the consecutive 24-month period following the initial over-income determination described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a PHA determines that the family's income is below the over-income limit, the family is entitled to a new 24 consecutive month period of being over-income and new notices under paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section if the PHA later determines that the family income exceeds the over-income limit.
