
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart E - Occupancy by Over-Income Families or Police Officers
###### ยง 960.507 Families exceeding the income limit.
####### In general.

(a)Families participating in the public housing program must not have incomes that exceed the over-income limit, as determined by paragraph (b) of this section, for more than 24 consecutive months.

(1) This provision applies to all families in the public housing program, including FSS families and all families receiving EID.

(i) Mixed families (as defined in ยง 5.504 of this title) who are non-public housing over-income families pay the alternative non-public housing rent (as defined in ยง 960.102), as applicable.

(ii) All non-public housing over-income families are precluded from participating in a public housing resident council.

(iii) Furthermore, non-public housing over-income families cannot participate in programs that are only for public housing or low-income families.

(iv) PHAs cannot provide any Federal assistance, including a utility allowance, to non-public housing over-income families.

(2) PHAs must implement the requirements of this section by amending all applicable admission and continued occupancy policies according to the provisions in 24 CFR part 903. All PHAs must have effective over-income policies, consistent with the requirements of this section, no later than June 14, 2023.
