
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart E - Occupancy by Over-Income Families or Police Officers
###### ยง 960.509 Lease requirements for non-public housing over-income families.
####### Tenant's obligations.

(6)The lease must, at a minimum and consistent with State and local law, provide that the tenant must:

(i) Not assign the lease or sublease the dwelling unit.

(ii) Not provide accommodations for boarders or lodgers.

(iii) Use the dwelling unit solely as a private dwelling for the tenant and the tenant's household as identified in the lease, and not use or permit its use for any other purpose.

(iv) Abide by necessary and reasonable policies established by the PHA for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants, which must be posted in the project office and incorporated by reference in the lease.

(v) Comply with all applicable State and local building and housing codes materially affecting health and safety.

(vi) Keep the dwelling unit and such other areas as may be assigned to the tenant for the tenant's exclusive use in a clean and safe condition.

(vii) Dispose of all waste from the dwelling unit in a sanitary and safe manner.

(viii) Use in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and other facilities, including elevators.

(ix) Refrain from, and cause members of the household and guests to refrain from destroying, defacing, damaging, or removing any part of the dwelling unit or housing project.

(x) Pay reasonable charges (other than for wear and tear) for the repair of damages to the dwelling unit, or to the housing project (including damages to buildings, facilities, or common areas) caused by the tenant, a member of the household or a guest.

(xi) Act, and cause household members and guests to act, in a manner which will not disturb other residents' peaceful enjoyment of their accommodations and will be conducive to maintaining the project in a decent, safe, and sanitary condition.

(xii) Assure that no tenant, member of the tenant's household, guest, or any other person under the tenant's control engages in:
