
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 960 - ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart E - Occupancy by Over-Income Families or Police Officers
###### ยง 960.509 Lease requirements for non-public housing over-income families.
####### The PHA's obligations.

(5)The PHA's obligations under the lease must include the following:

(i) To maintain the dwelling unit and the project in decent, safe, and sanitary condition.

(ii) To comply with requirements of applicable State and local building codes, housing codes, and HUD regulations materially affecting health and safety.

(iii) To make necessary repairs to the dwelling unit.

(iv) To keep project buildings, facilities, and common areas, not otherwise assigned to the tenant for maintenance and upkeep, in a clean and safe condition.

(v) To maintain in good and safe working order and condition electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, and other facilities, and appliances, including elevators, supplied, or required to be supplied by the PHA.

(vi) To provide and maintain appropriate receptacles and facilities (except containers for the exclusive use of an individual tenant family) for the deposit of ashes, garbage, rubbish, and other waste removed from the dwelling unit by the tenant in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(vii) of this section.

(vii) To supply running water, including an adequate source of potable water, and reasonable amounts of hot water and reasonable amounts of heat at appropriate times of the year (according to local custom and usage), except where the building that includes the dwelling unit is not required by law to be equipped for that purpose, or where heat or hot water is generated by an installation within the exclusive control of the tenant and supplied by a direct utility connection.

(viii) To notify the tenant of the specific grounds for any proposed adverse action by the PHA as required by State and local law.

(ix) To comply with Federal, State, and local nondiscrimination and fair housing requirements, including Federal accessibility requirements and providing reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities.

(x) To establish necessary and reasonable policies for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants, post the policies in the project office, and incorporate the regulations by reference in the lease.
