
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 963 - PUBLIC HOUSING - CONTRACTING WITH RESIDENT-OWNED BUSINESSES
##### Subpart B - Contracting With Resident-Owned Businesses
###### ยง 963.10 Eligible resident-owned businesses.
####### Resident-owned business.

(b)The business shall submit a certification that it is a resident-owned business as defined by this part. The business shall disclose to the PHA all owners of the business, and each owner's percentage of ownership interest in the business. The business also shall disclose all individuals who possess the power to make the day-to-day, as well as major, decisions on matters of management, policy, and operations (management officials). The business shall identify all owners and management officials who are not public housing residents, and shall disclose any relationship that these owners and officials may have to a business (resident- or non-resident-owned) engaged in the type of business activity with which the resident-owned business is engaged. For purposes of this part, "relationship" means employment by, or having an ownership interest in, a business. The business also shall submit such evidence as the PHA may require to verify that the owner or owners identified as public housing residents reside within public housing of the PHA.
