
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 964 - TENANT PARTICIPATION AND TENANT OPPORTUNITIES IN PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 964.3 Applicability and scope.

(a) The policies and procedures contained in this part apply to any PHA that has a Public Housing Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) with HUD. This part, except for subpart E, does not apply to PHAs with housing assistance payments contracts with HUD under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937.

(b) Subpart B of this part contains HUD policies, procedures, and requirements for the participation of residents in public housing operations. These policies, procedures, and requirements apply to all residents participating under this part.

(c)(1) Subpart C of this part contains HUD policies, procedures, and requirements for residents participating in the Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) (replaces the Resident Management Program under Section 20 of the United States Housing Act of 1937). Resident management in public housing is viable and remains an option under TOP.

(2) Subpart C of this part is not intended to negate any pre-existing arrangements for resident management in public housing between a PHA and a resident management corporation. On or after September 23, 1994, any new, renewed or renegotiated contracts must meet the requirements of this part, the ACC and all applicable laws and regulations.

(d) Subpart D of this part includes requirements for the Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program which was established by Section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437t) to provide families living in public housing and Indian housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities.

(e) Subpart E of this part implements section 2(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437), which provides for resident membership on the board of directors or similar governing body of a PHA. Subpart E applies to any public housing agency that has a public housing annual contributions contract with HUD or administers tenant-based rental under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).

(f) The term "resident," as used throughout this part, is interchangeable with the term "tenant," to reflect the fact that local resident organizations have differing preferences for the terms. Terms such as "resident council" and "tenant council" and "resident management" and "tenant management" are interchangeable. Hereafter, for ease of discussion, the rule will use the terms resident, resident council and resident management corporation, as appropriate.
