
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 964 - TENANT PARTICIPATION AND TENANT OPPORTUNITIES IN PUBLIC HOUSING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 964.18 HA role in activities under subparts B & C.
####### HAs with fewer than 250 units.

(b)(1) HAs with fewer than 250 units of public housing have the option of participating in programs under this part.

(2) HAs shall not deny residents the opportunity to organize. If the residents decide to organize and form a resident council, the HA shall comply with the following:

(i) A HA shall officially recognize a duly elected resident council as the sole representative of the residents it purports to represent, and support its tenant participation activities.

(ii) When requested by residents, a HA shall provide appropriate guidance to residents to assist them in establishing and maintaining a resident council.

(iii) A HA shall provide the residents or any resident council with current information concerning the HA's policies on tenant participation in management.

(iv) In no event shall HUD or a HA officially recognize a competing resident council once a duly elected resident council has been established. If a duly elected resident council has been formed, any input into changes concerning public housing operations shall be made only through the officially recognized resident council.
