
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 965 - PHA-OWNED OR LEASED PROJECTS - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Required Insurance Coverage
###### ยง 965.205 Qualified PHA-owned insurance entity.
####### Professional evaluations of performance.

(d)Audits and actuarial reviews are required to be prepared and submitted annually to the HUD Office of Public and Indian Housing, for review and appropriate action, by nonprofit insurance entities that are not insurance companies approved under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In addition, an evaluation of other management factors is required to be performed by an insurance professional every three years. For fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 1993, the initial audit, actuarial review, and insurance management review required for a nonprofit insurance entity must be submitted to HUD within 90 days after the entity's fiscal year.

(1) The annual financial statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (including any supplementary data required under GASB 10) is to be audited by an independent auditor (see 2 CFR part 200, subpart F), in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. The independent auditor shall express an opinion on whether the entity's financial statement is presented fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A copy of this audit must be submitted to HUD.

(2) The actuarial review must be done consistent with requirements established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and must be conducted by an independent property/casualty actuary who is an Associate or Fellow of a recognized professional actuarial organization, such as the Casualty Actuary Society. The report issued, a copy of which must be submitted to HUD, must include an opinion on any over or under reserving and the adequacy of the reserves maintained for the open claims and for incurred but unreported claims.

(3) A review must be conducted, a copy of which must be submitted to HUD, by an independent insurance consulting firm that has at least one person on staff who has received the professional designation of chartered property/casualty underwriter (CPCU), associate in risk management (ARM), or associate in claims (AIC), of the following:

(i) Efficiency of any Third Party Administrator;

(ii) Timeliness of the claim payments and reserving practices; and

(iii) The adequacy of reinsurance coverage.
