
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 965 - PHA-OWNED OR LEASED PROJECTS - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Individual Metering of Utilities for Existing PHA-Owned Projects
###### ยง 965.405 Actions affecting residents.

(a) Before making any conversion to retail service, the PHA shall adopt revised payment schedules, providing appropriate allowances for the resident-supplied utilities resulting from the conversion.

(b) Before implementing any modifications to utility services arrangements with the residents or charges with respect thereto, the PHA shall make the requisite changes in resident dwelling leases in accordance with 24 CFR part 966.

(c) PHAs must work closely with resident organizations, to the extent practicable, in making plans for conversion of utility service to individual metering, explaining the national policy objectives of energy conservation, the changes in charges and rent structure that will result, and the goals of achieving an equitable structure that will be advantageous to residents who conserve energy.

(d) A transition period of at least six months shall be provided in the case of initiation of checkmeters, during which residents will be advised of the charges but during which no surcharge will be made based on the readings. This trial period will afford residents ample notice of the effects the checkmetering system will have on their individual utility charges and also afford a test period for the adequacy of the utility allowances established.

(e) During and after the transition period, PHAs shall advise and assist residents with high utility consumption on methods for reducing their usage. This advice and assistance may include counseling, installation of new energy conserving equipment or appliances, and corrective maintenance.
