
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 965 - PHA-OWNED OR LEASED PROJECTS - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart I - Fire Safety
###### ยง 965.805 Smoke detectors.
####### Acceptability criteria.

(b)(1) The smoke detector for each individual unit must be located, to the extent practicable, in a hallway adjacent to the bedroom or bedrooms. In units occupied by hearing-impaired residents, hard-wired smoke detectors must be connected to an alarm system designed for hearing-impaired persons and installed in the bedroom or bedrooms occupied by the hearing-impaired residents. Individual units that are jointly occupied by both hearing and hearing-impaired residents must be equipped with both audible and visual types of alarm devices.

(2) If needed, battery-operated smoke detectors, except in units occupied by hearing-impaired residents, may be installed as a temporary measure where no detectors are present in a unit. Temporary battery-operated smoke detectors must be replaced with hard-wired electric smoke detectors in the normal course of a PHA's planned CIAP or CGP program to meet the required HUD Modernization Standards or state or local codes, whichever standard is stricter. Smoke detectors for units occupied by hearing-impaired residents must be installed in accordance with the acceptability criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
