
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 966 - PUBLIC HOUSING LEASE AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - Dwelling Leases, Procedures and Requirements
###### ยง 966.4 Lease requirements.
####### Tenant's right to use and occupancy.,guest

(d)(1) The lease shall provide that the tenant shall have the right to exclusive use and occupancy of the leased unit by the members of the household authorized to reside in the unit in accordance with the lease, including reasonable accommodation of their guests. The termis defined in 24 CFR 5.100.

(2) With the consent of the PHA, members of the household may engage in legal profitmaking activities in the dwelling unit, where the PHA determines that such activities are incidental to primary use of the leased unit for residence by members of the household.

(3)(i) With the consent of the PHA, a foster child or a live-in aide may reside in the unit. The PHA may adopt reasonable policies concerning residence by a foster child or a live-in-aide, and defining the circumstances in which PHA consent will be given or denied. Under such policies, the factors considered by the PHA may include:

(A) Whether the addition of a new occupant may necessitate a transfer of the family to another unit, and whether such units are available.

(B) The PHA's obligation to make reasonable accommodation for handicapped persons.
