
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 966 - PUBLIC HOUSING LEASE AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Grievance Procedures and Requirements
###### ยง 966.52 Requirements.

(a) Each PHA shall adopt a grievance procedure affording each tenant an opportunity for a hearing on a grievance as defined in ยง 966.53 in accordance with the requirements, standards, and criteria contained in this subpart. A PHA may establish an expedited grievance procedure as defined in ยง 966.53.

(b) The PHA grievance procedure shall be included in, or incorporated by reference in, all tenant dwelling leases pursuant to subpart A of this part.

(c) The PHA shall provide at least 30 days notice to tenants and resident organizations setting forth proposed changes in the PHA grievance procedure, and providing an opportunity to present written comments. Subject to requirements of this subpart, comments submitted shall be considered by the PHA before adoption of any grievance procedure changes by the PHA.

(d) The PHA shall furnish a copy of the grievance procedure to each tenant and to resident organizations.

(e) The PHA must not only meet the minimal procedural due process requirements contained in this subpart but also satisfy any additional requirements required by local, state, or federal law.
