
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 970 - PUBLIC HOUSING PROGRAM - DEMOLITION OR DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECTS
##### ยง 970.11 Procedures for the offer of sale to established eligible organizations.
###### PHA post-offer requirements.

(k)After the resident offer, if any, is made, the PHA shall:

(1) Submit its disposition application to HUD in accordance with section 18 of the Act and this part. The disposition application must include complete documentation that the resident offer provisions of this part have been met. This documentation shall include:

(i) A copy of the signed and dated PHA notification letter(s) to each established eligible organization informing them of the PHA's intention to submit an application for disposition, the organization's right to purchase the property to be disposed of; and

(ii) The responses from each organization.

(2)(i) If the PHA accepts the proposal of an established eligible organization, the PHA shall submit revisions to its disposition application to HUD in accordance with section 18 of the Act and this part reflecting the arrangement with the resident organization, with appropriate justification for a negotiated sale and for sale at less than fair market value, if applicable.

(ii) If the PHA rejects the proposal of the resident organization, the resident organization may appeal as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Once the appeal is resolved, or, if there is no appeal, and the 30 days allowed for appeal has passed, HUD shall proceed to approve or disapprove the application.

(3) HUD will not process an application for disposition unless the PHA provides HUD with one of the following:

(i) An official board resolution or its equivalent from each established eligible organization stating that such organization has received the PHA offer, and that it understands the offer and waives its opportunity to purchase the project, or portion of the project, covered by the disposition application;

(ii) A certification from the executive director or board of commissioners of the PHA that the 30-day time frame to express interest has expired and no response was received to its offer; or

(iii) A certification from the executive director or board of commissioners of the PHA with supporting documentation that the offer was otherwise rejected.
