
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 970 - PUBLIC HOUSING PROGRAM - DEMOLITION OR DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECTS
##### ยง 970.27 De minimis exception to demolition requirements.

(a) A PHA may demolish units without submitting an application if the PHA is proposing to demolish not more than the lesser of:

(1) five dwelling units; or

(2) 5 percent of the total dwelling units owned by the PHA over any 5-year period.

(b) The 5-year period referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is the 5 years counting backward from the date of the proposed de minimis demolition, except that any demolition performed prior to October 21, 1998, will not be counted against the five units or 5 percent of the total, as applicable. For example, if a PHA that owns 1,000 housing units wishes to demolish units under this de minimis provision on July 1, 2004, and previously demolished two units under this provision on September 1, 2000, and two more units on July 1, 2001, the PHA would be able to demolish one additional unit for a total of five in the preceding 5 years. As another example, if a PHA that owns 60 housing units as of July 1, 2004, had demolished two units on September 1, 2000, and one unit on July 1, 2001, that PHA would not be able to demolish any further units under this "de minimis" provision until after September 1, 2005, because it would have already demolished 5 percent of its total.

(c)(1) In order to qualify for this exemption, the space occupied by the demolished unit must be used for meeting the service or other needs of public housing residents (use of space to construct a laundry facility, community center, child care facility, office space for a general provider; or for use as open space or garden); or

(2) The unit being demolished must be beyond repair.

(d) PHAs utilizing this section will comply with environmental review requirements at 24 CFR 970.13 and, if applicable, the requirements of 24 CFR 8.23.

(e) For recordkeeping purposes, PHAs that wish to demolish units under this section shall submit the information required in ยง 970.7(a)(1), (2), (12), (13), and (14). HUD will accept a certification from the PHA that one of the two conditions in paragraph (c) of this section apply unless HUD has independent information that requirements for "de minimis" demolition have not been met.
