
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 970 - PUBLIC HOUSING PROGRAM - DEMOLITION OR DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECTS
##### ยง 970.25 Required and permitted actions prior to approval.

(a) A PHA may not take any action to demolish or dispose of a public housing development or a portion of a public housing development without obtaining HUD approval under this part. HUD funds may not be used to pay for the cost to demolish or dispose of a public housing development or a portion of a public housing development, unless HUD approval has been obtained under this part. Until the PHA receives HUD approval, the PHA shall continue to meet its ACC obligations to maintain and operate the property as housing for low-income families. However, the PHA may engage in planning activities, analysis, or consultations without seeking HUD approval. Planning activities may include project viability studies, capital planning, or comprehensive occupancy planning. The PHA must continue to provide full housing services to all residents that remain in the development. A PHA should not re-rent these units at turnover while HUD is considering its application for demolition or disposition. However, the PHA's operating subsidy eligibility will continue to be calculated as stated in 24 CFR part 990.

(b) A PHA may consolidate occupancy within or among buildings of a development, or among developments, or with other housing for the purposes of improving living conditions of, or providing more efficient services to residents, without submitting a demolition or disposition application.
