
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 972 - CONVERSION OF PUBLIC HOUSING TO TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - Required Conversion of Public Housing Developments
###### Required Conversion Process
####### ยง 972.112 Relationship between required conversion and demolition/disposition requirements.

(a) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 does not apply to demolition of developments removed from the inventory of the PHA under this subpart. Demolition of these developments is therefore not subject to section 18(g), which provides an exclusion from the applicability of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601) (URA). Accordingly, the URA will apply to the displacement of tenants as the direct result of the demolition of a development carried out pursuant to this subpart, in accordance with ยง 972.118. With respect to any such demolition, the PHA must comply with the requirements for environmental review found at part 58 of this title.

(b) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 does apply to any disposition of developments removed from the inventory of the PHA under this subpart. Therefore, to dispose of property, the PHA must submit a disposition application under section 18. HUD's review of any such disposition application will take into account that the development has been required to be converted.
