
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 972 - CONVERSION OF PUBLIC HOUSING TO TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - Required Conversion of Public Housing Developments
###### Identifying Developments Subject to Required Conversion
####### ยง 972.124 Standards for identifying public housing developments subject to required conversion.
######## The development either is distressed housing for which the PHA cannot assure the long-term viability as public housing, or more expensive for the PHA to operate as public housing than providing tenant-based assistance.

(c)(1) The development is distressed housing for which the PHA cannot assure the long-term viability as public housing through reasonable revitalization, density reduction, or achievement of a broader range of household income. (See ยง 972.127)

(i) Properties meeting the standards set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will be assumed to be "distressed," unless HUD determines that the reasons a property meets such standards are temporary in duration and are unlikely to recur.

(ii) A development satisfies the long-term viability test only if it is probable that, after reasonable investment, for at least 20 years (or at least 30 years for rehabilitation equivalent to new construction) the development can sustain structural/system soundness and full occupancy; will not be excessively densely configured relative to other similar rental (typically family) housing in the community; can achieve a broader range of family income; and has no other site impairments that clearly should disqualify the site from continuation as public housing.

(2) The development is more expensive for the PHA to operate as public housing than to provide tenant-based assistance if it has an estimated cost, during the remaining useful life of the project, of continued operation and modernization of the development as public housing in excess of the cost of providing tenant-based assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for all families in occupancy, based on appropriate indicators of cost (such as the percentage of total development cost required for modernization).

(i) For purposes of this determination, the costs used for public housing must be those necessary to produce a revitalized development as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) These costs, including estimated operating costs, modernization costs, and accrual needs must be used to develop a per unit monthly cost of continuing the development as public housing.

(iii) That per unit monthly cost of public housing must be compared to the per unit monthly Section 8 cost.

(iv) The cost methodology necessary to conduct the cost comparisons for required conversions has not yet been finalized. PHAs are not required to undertake conversions under this subpart until six months after the effective date of the cost methodology, which will be announced in theOnce effective, the cost methodology will be codified as an appendix to this part.
