
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 972 - CONVERSION OF PUBLIC HOUSING TO TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - Required Conversion of Public Housing Developments
###### Identifying Developments Subject to Required Conversion
####### ยง 972.127 Standards for determining whether a property is viable in the long term.
######## The investment to be made in the development is reasonable.

(a)(1) Proposed revitalization costs for viability must be reasonable. Such costs must not exceed, and ordinarily would be substantially less than, 90 percent of HUD's total development cost (TDC) limit for the units proposed to be revitalized (100 percent of the total development cost limit for any "infill" new construction subject to this regulation). The revitalization cost estimate used in the PHA's most recent Annual Plan or 5-Year Plan is to be used for this purpose, unless the PHA demonstrates, or HUD determines, that another cost estimate is clearly more realistic to ensure viability and to sustain the operating costs that are described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The overall projected cost of the revitalized development must not exceed the Section 8 cost under the method contained in the Appendix to this part, even if the cost of revitalization is a lower percentage of the TDC than the limits stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) The source of funding for such a revitalization program must be identified and available. In addition to other resources already available to the PHA, it may assume that future formula funds provided through the Capital Fund over five years are available for this purpose.
