
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 972 - CONVERSION OF PUBLIC HOUSING TO TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart B - Voluntary Conversion of Public Housing Developments
###### Conversion Plans
####### ยง 972.230 Conversion plan components.

A conversion plan must:

(a) Describe the conversion and future use or disposition of the public housing development. If the future use of the development is demolition or disposition, the PHA is not required to submit a demolition or disposition application, so long as the PHA submits, and HUD approves, a conversion plan that includes a description of the future uses of the development.

(b) Include an impact analysis of the conversion on the affected community. This may include the description that is required as part of the conversion assessment.

(c) Include a description of how the conversion plan is consistent with the findings of the conversion assessment undertaken in accordance with ยง 972.218.

(d) Include a summary of the resident comments received when developing the conversion plan, and the PHA responses to the significant issues raised by the commenters (including a description of any actions taken by the PHA as a result of the comments).

(e) Confirm that any proceeds received from the conversion are subject to the limitations under section 18(a)(5) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437p(a)(5)) applicable to proceeds resulting from demolition or disposition.

(f) Summarize why the conversion assessment for the public housing project supports the three conditions necessary for conversion described in ยง 972.224.

(g) Include a relocation plan that incorporates all of the information identified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section. In addition, if the required conversion is subject to the URA, the relocation plan must also contain the information identified in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. The relocation plan must incorporate the following:

(1) The number of households to be relocated, by bedroom size, by the number of accessible units.

(2) The relocation resources that will be necessary, including a request for any necessary Section 8 funding and a description of actual or potential public or other assisted housing vacancies that can be used as relocation housing and budget for carrying out relocation activities.

(3) A schedule for relocation and removal of units from the public housing inventory (including the schedule for providing actual and reasonable relocation expenses, as determined by the PHA, for families displaced by the conversion).

(4) Provide for issuance of a written notice to families residing in the development in accordance with the following requirements:
