
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 972 - CONVERSION OF PUBLIC HOUSING TO TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart B - Voluntary Conversion of Public Housing Developments
###### Conversion Assessments
####### ยง 972.224 Necessary conditions for HUD approval of conversion.
######## Benefit to residents, PHA, and the community.

(2)(i) The benefit to residents, the PHA, and the community may be demonstrated in the rental market analysis, the analysis of the impact on the neighborhood, the market value analysis, and the proposed future use of the development. In determining whether a conversion will principally benefit residents, the PHA, and the community, HUD will consider whether the conversion will conflict with any litigation settlement agreements, voluntary compliance agreements, or other remedial agreements signed by the PHA with HUD.

(ii) In making the determination of whether a conversion would principally benefit residents, the PHA, and the community, the PHA must consider such factors as the availability of landlords providing tenant-based assistance, as well as access to schools, jobs, and transportation.

(iii) To determine the benefit to residents, the PHA must hold at least one public meeting with residents of the affected site (including the duly elected Resident Council, if any, that covers the development in question). At the meeting, the PHA must:

(A) Explain the requirements of section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and these regulations, especially as they apply to residents of affected developments;

(B) Provide draft copies of the conversion assessment to the residents; and

(C) Provide the residents with a reasonable period of time to submit comments on the draft conversion assessment.

(iv) The conversion assessment submitted to HUD must contain a summary of the resident comments, and the PHA responses to any significant issues raised by the commenters.
