
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - HUD Requirements and PHA Plan for Administration of Program
###### § 982.54 Administrative plan.

(a) The PHA must adopt a written administrative plan that establishes local policies for administration of the program in accordance with HUD requirements. The administrative plan and any revisions of the plan must be formally adopted by the PHA Board of Commissioners or other authorized PHA officials. The administrative plan states PHA policy on matters for which the PHA has discretion to establish local policies.

(b) The administrative plan must be in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements. The administrative plan is a supporting document to the PHA plan (part 903 of this title) and must be available for public review. The PHA must revise the administrative plan if needed to comply with HUD requirements.

(c) The PHA must administer the program in accordance with the PHA administrative plan.

(d) The PHA administrative plan must cover PHA policies on these subjects:

(1) Selection and admission of applicants from the PHA waiting list, including any PHA admission preferences, procedures for removing applicant names from the waiting list, and procedures for closing and reopening the PHA waiting list;

(2) Issuing or denying vouchers, including PHA policy governing the voucher term and any extensions of the voucher term. If the PHA decides to allow extensions of the voucher term, the PHA administrative plan must describe how the PHA determines whether to grant extensions, and how the PHA determines the length of any extension.

(3) Any special rules for use of available funds when HUD provides funding to the PHA for a special purpose (e.g., desegregation), including funding for specified families or a specified category of families;

(4) Occupancy policies, including:

(i) Definition of what group of persons may qualify as a "family";

(ii) Definition of when a family is considered to be "continuously assisted";

(iii) Standards for denying admission or terminating assistance based on criminal activity or alcohol abuse in accordance with § 982.553;

(5) Encouraging participation by owners of suitable units located outside areas of low income or minority concentration;

(6) Assisting a family that claims that illegal discrimination has prevented the family from leasing a suitable unit;

(7) Providing information about a family to prospective owners;

(8) Disapproval of owners;

(9) Subsidy standards;

(10) Family absence from the dwelling unit;

(11) How to determine who remains in the program if a family breaks up;

(12) Informal review procedures for applicants;

(13) Informal hearing procedures for participants;

(14) The process for establishing and revising payment standards, including policies on administering decreases in the payment standard during the HAP contract term (see § 982.505(d)(3)).

(15) The method of determining that rent to owner is a reasonable rent (initially and during the term of a HAP contract);

(16) Special policies concerning special housing types in the program (e.g., use of shared housing);

(17) Policies concerning payment by a family to the PHA of amounts the family owes the PHA;

(18) Interim redeterminations of family income and composition;

(19) Restrictions, if any, on the number of moves by a participant family (see § 982.354(c));

(20) Approval by the Board of Commissioners or other authorized officials to charge the administrative fee reserve;

(21) Procedural guidelines and performance standards for conducting required HQS inspections; and

(22) PHA screening of applicants for family behavior or suitability for tenancy.

(23) Policies concerning application of Small Area FMRs to project-based voucher units (see § 888.113(h)).
