
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Annual Contributions Contract and PHA Administration of Program
###### ยง 982.155 Administrative fee reserve.

(a) The PHA must maintain an administrative fee reserve (formerly "operating reserve") for the program. There is a single administrative fee reserve for the PHA program. The PHA must credit to the administrative fee reserve the total of:

(1) The amount by which program administrative fees paid by HUD for a PHA fiscal year exceed the PHA program administrative expenses for the fiscal year; plus

(2) Interest earned on the administrative fee reserve.

(b)(1) The PHA must use funds in the administrative fee reserve to pay program administrative expenses in excess of administrative fees paid by HUD for a PHA fiscal year. If funds in the administrative fee reserve are not needed to cover PHA administrative expenses (to the end of the last expiring funding increment under the consolidated ACC), the PHA may use these funds for other housing purposes permitted by State and local law. However, HUD may prohibit use of the funds for certain purposes.

(2) The PHA Board of Commissioners or other authorized officials must establish the maximum amount that may be charged against the administrative fee reserve without specific approval.

(3) If the PHA has not adequately administered any Section 8 program, HUD may prohibit use of funds in the administrative fee reserve, and may direct the PHA to use funds in the reserve to improve administration of the program or to reimburse ineligible expenses.
