
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Annual Contributions Contract and PHA Administration of Program
###### ยง 982.152 Administrative fee.
####### Purposes of administrative fee.

(a)(1) HUD may approve administrative fees to the PHA for any of the following purposes:

(i) Ongoing administrative fee;

(ii) Costs to help families who experience difficulty finding or renting appropriate housing under the program;

(iii) The following types of extraordinary costs approved by HUD:

(A) Costs to cover necessary additional expenses incurred by the PHA to provide reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities in accordance with part 8 of this title (e.g., additional counselling costs), where the PHA is unable to cover such additional expenses from ongoing administrative fee income or the PHA administrative fee reserve;

(B) Costs of audit by an independent public accountant;

(C) Other extraordinary costs determined necessary by HUD Headquarters;

(iv) Preliminary fee (in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section);

(v) Costs to coordinate supportive services for families participating in the family self-sufficiency (FSS) program.

(2) For each PHA fiscal year, administrative fees are specified in the PHA budget. The budget is submitted for HUD approval. Fees are paid in the amounts approved by HUD. Administrative fees may only be approved or paid from amounts appropriated by the Congress.

(3) PHA administrative fees may only be used to cover costs incurred to perform PHA administrative responsibilities for the program in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements.
