
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Admission to Tenant-Based Program
###### ยง 982.201 Eligibility and targeting.
####### Income-targeting.

(2)(i) Not less than 75 percent of the families admitted to a PHA's HCV program during the PHA fiscal year from the PHA waiting list shall be extremely low income families. Annual income of such families shall be verified within the period described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(ii) A PHA may admit a lower percent of extremely low income families during a PHA fiscal year (than otherwise required under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section) if HUD approves the use of such lower percent by the PHA, in accordance with the PHA plan, based on HUD's determination that the following circumstances necessitate use of such lower percent by the PHA:

(A) The PHA has opened its waiting list for a reasonable time for admission of extremely low income families residing in the same metropolitan statistical area (MSA) or non-metropolitan county, both inside and outside the PHA jurisdiction;

(B) The PHA has provided full public notice of such opening to such families, and has conducted outreach and marketing to such families, including outreach and marketing to extremely low income families on the Section 8 and public housing waiting lists of other PHAs with jurisdiction in the same MSA or non-metropolitan county;

(C) Notwithstanding such actions by the PHA (in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section), there are not enough extremely low income families on the PHA's waiting list to fill available slots in the program during any fiscal year for which use of a lower percent is approved by HUD; and

(D) Admission of the additional very low income families other than extremely low income families to the PHA's tenant-based voucher program will substantially address worst case housing needs as determined by HUD.

(iii) If approved by HUD, the admission of a portion of very low income welfare-to-work (WTW) families that are not extremely low income families may be disregarded in determining compliance with the PHA's income-targeting obligations under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. HUD will grant such approval only if and to the extent that the PHA has demonstrated to HUD's satisfaction that compliance with such targeting obligations with respect to such portion of WTW families would interfere with the objectives of the welfare-to-work voucher program. If HUD grants such approval, admission of that portion of WTW families is not counted in the base number of families admitted to a PHA's tenant-based voucher program during the fiscal year for purposes of income targeting.

(iv) Admission of families as described in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(1)(v) of this section is not subject to targeting under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.

(v) If the jurisdictions of two or more PHAs that administer the HCV program cover an identical geographic area, such PHAs may elect to be treated as a single PHA for purposes of targeting under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In such a case, the PHAs shall cooperate to assure that aggregate admissions by such PHAs comply with the targeting requirement. If such PHAs do not have a single fiscal year, HUD will determine which PHA's fiscal year is used for this purpose.

(vi) If a family initially leases a unit outside the PHA jurisdiction under portability procedures at admission to the HCV program, such admission shall be counted against the targeting obligation of the initial PHA (unless the receiving PHA absorbs the portable family into the receiving PHA's HCV program from the point of admission).

(3) The annual income (gross income) of an applicant family is used both for determination of income-eligibility under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and for targeting under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In determining annual income of an applicant family that includes a person with disabilities, the determination must include the disallowance of increase in annual income as provided in 24 CFR 5.617, if applicable.

(4) The applicable income limit for issuance of a voucher when a family is selected for the program is the highest income limit (for the family size) for areas in the PHA jurisdiction. The applicable income limit for admission to the program is the income limit for the area where the family is initially assisted in the program. At admission, the family may only use the voucher to rent a unit in an area where the family is income eligible.
