
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Admission to Tenant-Based Program
###### ยง 982.207 Waiting list: Local preferences in admission to program.
####### Establishment of PHA local preferences.

(a)(1) The PHA may establish a system of local preferences for selection of families admitted to the program. PHA selection preferences must be described in the PHA administrative plan.

(2) The PHA system of local preferences must be based on local housing needs and priorities, as determined by the PHA. In determining such needs and priorities, the PHA shall use generally accepted data sources. The PHA shall consider public comment on the proposed public housing agency plan (as received pursuant to ยง 903.17 of this chapter) and on the consolidated plan for the relevant jurisdiction (as received pursuant to part 91 of this title).

(3) The PHA may limit the number of applicants that may qualify for any local preference.

(4) The PHA shall not deny a local preference, nor otherwise exclude or penalize a family in admission to the program, solely because the family resides in a public housing project. The PHA may establish a preference for families residing in public housing who are victims of a crime of violence (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 16).
