
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Leasing a Unit
###### ยง 982.301 Information when family is selected.
####### PHA briefing of family.

(a)(1) When the PHA selects a family to participate in a tenant-based program, the PHA must give the family an oral briefing. The briefing must include information on the following subjects:

(i) A description of how the program works;

(ii) Family and owner responsibilities; and

(iii) Where the family may lease a unit, including renting a dwelling unit inside or outside the PHA jurisdiction, and any information on selecting a unit that HUD provides.

(2) An explanation of how portability works. The PHA may not discourage the family from choosing to live anywhere in the PHA jurisdiction, or outside the PHA jurisdiction under portability procedures, unless otherwise expressly authorized by statute, regulation, PIH Notice, or court order. The family must be informed of how portability may affect the family's assistance through screening, subsidy standards, payment standards, and any other elements of the portability process which may affect the family's assistance.

(3) The briefing must also explain the advantages of areas that do not have a high concentration of low-income families.

(4) In briefing a family that includes any disabled person, the PHA must take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication in accordance with 24 CFR 8.6.

(5) In briefing a welfare-to-work family, the PHA must include specification of any local obligations of a welfare-to-work family and an explanation that failure to meet these obligations is grounds for PHA denial of admission or termination of assistance.
