
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 26 - HEARING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart A - Hearings Before Hearing Officers
##### Discovery
###### ยง 26.18 Discovery.
####### Limitations.

(d)(1) By order, the hearing officer may set or alter limits on the number of document requests, depositions, and interrogatories, or the length of depositions.

(2) Orders compelling discovery shall be issued only where such discovery will not compel the disclosure of privileged information, unduly delay the hearing, or result in prejudice to the public interest or the rights of the parties, and upon a showing of good cause.

(3) Protective orders may be issued by a hearing officer if the hearing officer determines such an order is necessary to protect a party or other person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense because:

(i) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;

(ii) The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the action to obtain the information sought; or

(iii) The burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation, and the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues.

(4) A party need not provide discovery of electronically stored information from sources that the party identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. On motion to compel discovery or for a protective order, the party from whom discovery is sought must show that the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. If that showing is made, the hearing officer may nonetheless order discovery from such sources if the requesting party shows good cause or, when the party's refusal to provide the information sought is solely due to undue expense, if the party seeking the discovery agrees to bear the expense associated with the request.
