
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Leasing a Unit
###### ยง 982.305 PHA approval of assisted tenancy.
####### Actions before lease term.

(b)(1) All of the following must always be completed before the beginning of the initial term of the lease for a unit:

(i) The PHA has inspected the unit and has determined that the unit satisfies the HQS;

(ii) The landlord and the tenant have executed the lease (including the HUD-prescribed tenancy addendum, and the lead-based paint disclosure information as required in ยง 35.92(b) of this title); and

(iii) The PHA has approved leasing of the unit in accordance with program requirements.

(2)(i) The PHA must inspect the unit, determine whether the unit satisfies the HQS, and notify the family and owner of the determination:

(A) In the case of a PHA with up to 1250 budgeted units in its tenant-based program, within fifteen days after the family and the owner submit a request for approval of the tenancy.

(B) In the case of a PHA with more than 1250 budgeted units in its tenant-based program, within a reasonable time after the family submits a request for approval of the tenancy. To the extent practicable, such inspection and determination must be completed within fifteen days after the family and the owner submit a request for approval of the tenancy.

(ii) The fifteen day clock (under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section) is suspended during any period when the unit is not available for inspection.

(3) In the case of a unit subject to a lease-purchase agreement, the PHA must provide written notice to the family of the environmental requirements that must be met before commencing homeownership assistance for the family (see ยง 982.626(c)).
