
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 26 - HEARING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart A - Hearings Before Hearing Officers
##### Discovery
###### ยง 26.19 Request for production of documents.
####### Response to request to produce.

(c)The party upon whom the request is served shall serve a written response within 20 days after service of the request. A shorter or longer time may be directed by the hearing officer, or in the absence of such an order, agreed to by the parties in a written document that shall be timely submitted to the hearing officer. The response shall state, with respect to each item or category, whether inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested. If there are any objections to any requests, including objections to the requested form or forms for producing electronically stored information, the response shall state the reasons for such objections. If objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall be specified and inspection of the remaining parts shall be permitted. If objection is made to the requested format or forms for producing electronically stored information-or if no form was specified in the request-the responding party must state the form or forms it intends to use. The party submitting the request may move for an order under ยง 26.18(c)(1) with respect to any objection to or other failure to respond to the request or any part thereof, or any failure to permit inspection as requested.
