
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Where Family Can Live and Move
###### ยง 982.355 Portability: Administration by initial and receiving PHA.
####### Absorption by the receiving PHA.

(d)(1) If funding is available under the consolidated ACC for the receiving PHA's HCV program, the receiving PHA may absorb the family into the receiving PHA's HCV program. After absorption, the family is assisted with funds available under the consolidated ACC for the receiving PHA's HCV program.

(2) HUD may require that the receiving PHA absorb all, or a portion of, incoming portable families. Under circumstances described in a notice published in theHUD may determine that receiving PHAs, or categories of receiving PHAs, should absorb all or a portion of incoming portable families. If HUD makes such a determination, HUD will provide an opportunity for public comment, for a period of no less than 60 calendar days, on such policy and procedures. After consideration of public comments, HUD will publish a final notice in theadvising PHAs and the public of HUD's final determination on the subject of mandatory absorption of incoming portable families.

(3) HUD may provide financial or nonfinancial incentives (or both) to PHAs that absorb portability vouchers.
