
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Where Family Can Live and Move
###### § 982.355 Portability: Administration by initial and receiving PHA.
####### Portability procedures.

(c)The following portability procedures must be followed:

(1) When the family decides to use the voucher outside of the PHA jurisdiction, the family must notify the initial PHA of its desire to relocate and must specify the location where it wants to live.

(2) The initial PHA must determine the family's eligibility to move in accordance with §§ 982.353 and 982.354.

(3) Once the receiving PHA is determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the initial PHA must contact the receiving PHA, via email or other confirmed delivery method, prior to approving the family's request to move in order to determine whether the voucher will be absorbed or billed by the receiving PHA. The receiving PHA must advise the initial PHA in writing, via email or other confirmed delivery method, of its decision.

(4) If the receiving PHA notifies the initial PHA that it will absorb the voucher, the receiving PHA cannot reverse its decision at a later date without consent of the initial PHA.

(5) If the receiving PHA will bill the initial PHA for the portability voucher and the cost of the HAP will increase due to the move, the initial PHA may deny the move if it does not have sufficient funding for continued assistance in accordance with § 982.354 (e)(1).

(6) If a billing arrangement is approved by the initial PHA or if the voucher is to be absorbed by the receiving PHA, the initial PHA must issue the family a voucher to move, if it has not already done so, and advise the family how to contact and request assistance from the receiving PHA.

(7) The initial PHA must promptly notify the receiving PHA to expect the family. The initial PHA must give the receiving PHA the form HUD-52665, the most recent form HUD 50058 (Family Report) for the family, and all related verification information.

(8) The family must promptly contact the receiving PHA in order to be informed of the receiving PHA's procedures for incoming portable families and comply with these procedures. The family's failure to comply may result in denial or termination of the receiving PHA's voucher.

(9) The receiving PHA does not redetermine eligibility for a participant family. However, for a family that was not already receiving assistance in the PHA's HCV program, the initial PHA must determine whether the family is eligible for admission to the receiving PHA's HCV program. In determining income eligibility, the receiving PHA's income limits are used by the initial PHA.

(10) When a receiving PHA assists a family under portability, administration of the voucher must be in accordance with the receiving PHA's policies. This requirement also applies to policies of Moving to Work agencies. The receiving PHA procedures and preferences for selection among eligible applicants do not apply to the family, and the receiving PHA waiting list is not used.

(11) If the receiving PHA opts to conduct a new reexamination for a current participant family, the receiving PHA may not delay issuing the family a voucher or otherwise delay approval of a unit.

(12) The receiving PHA must determine the family unit size for the family, and base its determination on the subsidy standards of the receiving PHA.

(13) The receiving PHA must issue a voucher to the family. The term of the receiving PHA voucher may not expire before 30 calendar days from the expiration date of the initial PHA voucher. If the voucher expires before the family arrives at the receiving PHA, the receiving PHA must contact the initial PHA to determine if it will extend the voucher.

(14) Once the receiving PHA issues the portable family a voucher, the receiving PHA's policies on extensions of the voucher term apply. The receiving PHA must notify the initial PHA of any extensions granted to the term of the voucher.

(15) The family must submit a request for tenancy approval to the receiving PHA during the term of the receiving PHA voucher. As required in § 982.303, if the family submits a request for tenancy approval during the term of the voucher, the PHA must suspend the term of that voucher.

(16) The receiving PHA must promptly notify the initial PHA if the family has leased an eligible unit under the program, or if the family fails to submit a request for tenancy approval for an eligible unit within the term of the voucher.

(17) At any time, either the initial PHA or the receiving PHA may make a determination to deny or terminate assistance to the family in accordance with § 982.552 and 982.553.
