
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
###### ยง 982.401 Housing quality standards (HQS).
####### Performance and acceptability requirements.

(a)(1) This section states the housing quality standards (HQS) for housing assisted under the HCV program.

(2)(i) The HQS consist of:

(A) Performance requirements; and

(B) Acceptability criteria or HUD approved variations in the acceptability criteria.

(ii) This section states performance and acceptability criteria for these key aspects of housing quality:

(A) Sanitary facilities;

(B) Food preparation and refuse disposal;

(C) Space and security;

(D) Thermal environment;

(E) Illumination and electricity;

(F) Structure and materials;

(G) Interior air quality;

(H) Water supply;

(I) Lead-based paint;

(J) Access;

(K) Site and neighborhood;

(L) Sanitary condition; and

(M) Smoke detectors.

(3) All program housing must meet the HQS performance requirements both at commencement of assisted occupancy, and throughout the assisted tenancy.

(4)(i) In addition to meeting HQS performance requirements, the housing must meet the acceptability criteria stated in this section, unless variations are approved by HUD.

(ii) HUD may approve acceptability criteria variations for the following purposes:

(A) Variations which apply standards in local housing codes or other codes adopted by the PHA; or

(B) Variations because of local climatic or geographic conditions.

(iii) Acceptability criteria variations may only be approved by HUD pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section if such variations either:

(A) Meet or exceed the performance requirements; or

(B) Significantly expand affordable housing opportunities for families assisted under the program.

(iv) HUD will not approve any acceptability criteria variation if HUD believes that such variation is likely to adversely affect the health or safety of participant families, or severely restrict housing choice.
