
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
###### ยง 982.402 Subsidy standards.
####### Determining family unit size.

(b)The following requirements apply when the PHA determines family unit size under the PHA subsidy standards:

(1) The subsidy standards must provide for the smallest number of bedrooms needed to house a family without overcrowding.

(2) The subsidy standards must be consistent with space requirements under the housing quality standards (See ยง 982.401(d)).

(3) The subsidy standards must be applied consistently for all families of like size and composition.

(4) A child who is temporarily away from the home because of placement in foster care is considered a member of the family in determining the family unit size.

(5) A family that consists of a pregnant woman (with no other persons) must be treated as a two-person family.

(6) Any live-in aide (approved by the PHA to reside in the unit to care for a family member who is disabled or is at least 50 years of age) must be counted in determining the family unit size;

(7) Unless a live-in-aide resides with the family, the family unit size for any family consisting of a single person must be either a zero or one-bedroom unit, as determined under the PHA subsidy standards.

(8) In determining family unit size for a particular family, the PHA may grant an exception to its established subsidy standards if the PHA determines that the exception is justified by the age, sex, health, handicap, or relationship of family members or other personal circumstances. (For a single person other than a disabled or elderly person or remaining family member, such PHA exception may not override the limitation in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.)
