
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
###### ยง 982.404 Maintenance: Owner and family responsibility; PHA remedies.
####### Owner obligation.

(a)(1) The owner must maintain the unit in accordance with HQS.

(2) If the owner fails to maintain the dwelling unit in accordance with HQS, the PHA must take prompt and vigorous action to enforce the owner obligations. PHA remedies for such breach of the HQS include termination, suspension or reduction of housing assistance payments and termination of the HAP contract.

(3) The PHA must not make any housing assistance payments for a dwelling unit that fails to meet the HQS, unless the owner corrects the defect within the period specified by the PHA and the PHA verifies the correction. If a defect is life threatening, the owner must correct the defect within no more than 24 hours. For other defects, the owner must correct the defect within no more than 30 calendar days (or any PHA-approved extension).

(4) The owner is not responsible for a breach of the HQS that is not caused by the owner, and for which the family is responsible (as provided in ยง 982.404(b) and ยง 982.551(c)). (However, the PHA may terminate assistance to a family because of HQS breach caused by the family.)
