
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
###### ยง 982.405 PHA initial and periodic unit inspection.

(a) The PHA must inspect the unit leased to a family prior to the initial term of the lease, at least biennially during assisted occupancy, and at other times as needed, to determine if the unit meets the HQS. (See ยง 982.305(b)(2) concerning timing of initial inspection by the PHA.)

(b) The PHA must conduct supervisory quality control HQS inspections.

(c) In scheduling inspections, the PHA must consider complaints and any other information brought to the attention of the PHA.

(d) The PHA must notify the owner of defects shown by the inspection.

(e) The PHA may not charge the family for an initial inspection or reinspection of the unit.

(f) The PHA may not charge the owner for the inspection of the unit prior to the initial term of the lease or for a first inspection during assisted occupancy of the unit. The PHA may establish a reasonable fee to owners for a reinspection if an owner notifies the PHA that a repair has been made or the allotted time for repairs has elapsed and a reinspection reveals that any deficiency cited in the previous inspection that the owner is responsible for repairing pursuant to ยง 982.404(a) was not corrected. The owner may not pass this fee along to the family. Fees collected under this paragraph will be included in a PHA's administrative fee reserve and may be used only for activities related to the provision of Section 8 Tenant-Based Rental Assistance.
