
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
###### ยง 982.406 Use of alternative inspections.
####### Eligible inspection methods.

(c)(1) A PHA may rely upon inspections of housing assisted under the HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) program or housing financed using Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTCs), or inspections performed by HUD, with no action other than amending its administrative plan.

(2) If a PHA wishes to rely on an inspection method other than a method listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then, prior to amending its administrative plan, the PHA must submit to the Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) a copy of the inspection method it wishes to use, along with its analysis of the inspection method that shows that the method "provides the same or greater protection to occupants of dwelling units" as would HQS.

(i) A PHA may rely upon such alternative inspection method only upon receiving approval from REAC to do so.

(ii) A PHA that uses an alternative inspection method approved under this paragraph must monitor changes to the standards and requirements applicable to such method. If any change is made to the alternative inspection method, then the PHA must submit to REAC a copy of the revised standards and requirements, along with a revised comparison to HQS. If the PHA or REAC determines that the revision would cause the alternative inspection to no longer meet or exceed HQS, then the PHA may no longer rely upon the alternative inspection method to comply with the inspection requirement at ยง 982.405(a).
