
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
###### § 982.406 Use of alternative inspections.
####### Results of alternative inspection.

(d)(1) In order for a PHA to rely upon the results of an alternative inspection to comply with the requirement at § 982.405(a), a property inspected pursuant to such method must meet the standards or requirements regarding housing quality or safety applicable to properties assisted under the program using the alternative inspection method. To make the determination of whether such standards or requirements are met, the PHA must adhere to the following procedures:

(i) If a property is inspected under an alternative inspection method, and the property receives a "pass" score, then the PHA may rely on that inspection to demonstrate compliance with the inspection requirement at § 982.405(a).

(ii) If a property is inspected under an alternative inspection method, and the property receives a "fail" score, then the PHA may not rely on that inspection to demonstrate compliance with the inspection requirement at § 982.405(a).

(iii) If a property is inspected under an alternative inspection method that does not employ a pass/fail determination-for example, in the case of a program where deficiencies are simply identified-then the PHA must review the list of deficiencies to determine whether any cited deficiency would have resulted in a "fail" score under HQS. If no such deficiency exists, then the PHA may rely on the inspection to demonstrate compliance with the inspection requirement at § 982.405(a); if such a deficiency does exist, then the PHA may not rely on the inspection to demonstrate such compliance.

(2) Under any circumstance described above in which a PHA is prohibited from relying on an alternative inspection method for a property, the PHA must, within a reasonable period of time, conduct an HQS inspection of any units in the property occupied by voucher program participants and follow HQS procedures to remedy any identified deficiencies.
