
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - Housing Assistance Payments Contract and Owner Responsibility
###### ยง 982.451 Housing assistance payments contract.

(a)(1) The HAP contract must be in the form required by HUD.

(2) The term of the HAP contract is the same as the term of the lease.

(b)(1) The amount of the monthly housing assistance payment by the PHA to the owner is determined by the PHA in accordance with HUD regulations and other requirements. The amount of the housing assistance payment is subject to change during the HAP contract term.

(2) The monthly housing assistance payment by the PHA is credited toward the monthly rent to owner under the family's lease.

(3) The total of rent paid by the tenant plus the PHA housing assistance payment to the owner may not be more than the rent to owner. The owner must immediately return any excess payment to the PHA.

(4)(i) The part of the rent to owner which is paid by the tenant may not be more than:

(A) The rent to owner; minus

(B) The PHA housing assistance payment to the owner.

(ii) The owner may not demand or accept any rent payment from the tenant in excess of this maximum, and must immediately return any excess rent payment to the tenant.

(iii) The family is not responsible for payment of the portion of rent to owner covered by the housing assistance payment under the HAP contract between the owner and the PHA. See ยง 982.310(b).

(5)(i) The PHA must pay the housing assistance payment promptly when due to the owner in accordance with the HAP contract.

(ii)(A) The HAP contract shall provide for penalties against the PHA for late payment of housing assistance payments due to the owner if all the following circumstances apply:
