
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Rent and Housing Assistance Payment
###### ยง 982.503 Payment standard amount and schedule.
####### Establishing payment standard amounts.

(b)(1)(i) The PHA may establish the payment standard amount for a unit size at any level between 90 percent and 110 percent of the published FMR for that unit size. HUD approval is not required to establish a payment standard amount in that range ("basic range"). The PHA must revise the payment standard amount no later than 3 months following the effective date of the published FMR if a change is necessary to stay within the basic range.

(ii) The PHA may establish a separate payment standard amount within the basic range for a designated part of an FMR area.

(iii) A PHA that is not in a designated Small Area FMR area or has not opted to voluntarily implement Small Area FMRs under 24 CFR 888.113(c)(3) may establish exception payment standards for a ZIP code area above the basic range for the metropolitan FMR based on the HUD published Small Area FMRs. The PHA may establish an exception payment standard up to 110 percent of the HUD published Small Area FMR for that ZIP code area. The PHA must notify HUD if it establishes an exception payment standard based on the Small Area FMR. The exception payment standard must apply to the entire ZIP code area.

(iv) At the request of a PHA administering the HCV program under Small Area FMRs under ยง 888.113(c)(3), HUD may approve an exception payment standard for a Small Area FMR area above the 110 percent of the published FMR in accordance with conditions set forth by Notice in theThe requirements of paragraph (c) of this section do not apply to these exception payment standard requests and approvals.

(v) The PHA may establish an exception payment standard of not more than 120 percent of the published FMR if required as a reasonable accommodation in accordance with 24 CFR part 8 for a family that includes a person with a disability. Any unit approved under an exception payment standard must still meet the reasonable rent requirements found at ยง 982.507.

(vi) The PHA may establish an exception payment standard of more than 120 percent of the published FMR if required as a reasonable accommodation in accordance with 24 CFR part 8 for a family that includes a person with a disability after approval from HUD. Any unit approved under an exception payment standard must still meet the reasonable rent requirements found at ยง 982.507.

(2) Except as described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (v) of this section, the PHA must request HUD approval to establish a payment standard amount that is higher or lower than the basic range. HUD has sole discretion to grant or deny approval of a higher or lower payment standard amount. Paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section describe the requirements for approval of a higher payment standard amount ("exception payment standard amount").
