
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - Rent and Housing Assistance Payment
###### ยง 982.503 Payment standard amount and schedule.
####### HUD approval of success rate payment standard amounts.

(e)In order to increase the number of voucher holders who become participants, HUD may approve requests from PHAs whose FMRs are computed at the 40th percentile rent to establish higher, success rate payment standard amounts. A success rate payment standard amount is defined as any amount between 90 percent and 110 percent of the 50th percentile rent, calculated in accordance with the methodology described in ยง 888.113 of this title.

(1) A PHA may obtain HUD Field Office approval of success rate payment standard amounts provided the PHA demonstrates to HUD that it meets the following criteria:

(i) Fewer than 75 percent of the families to whom the PHA issued rental vouchers during the most recent 6 month period for which there is success rate data available have become participants in the voucher program;

(ii) The PHA has established payment standard amounts for all unit sizes in the entire PHA jurisdiction within the FMR area at 110 percent of the published FMR for at least the 6 month period referenced in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section and up to the time the request is made to HUD; and

(iii) The PHA has a policy of granting automatic extensions of voucher terms to at least 90 days to provide a family who has made sustained efforts to locate suitable housing with additional search time.

(2) In determining whether to approve the PHA request to establish success rate payment standard amounts, HUD will consider whether the PHA has a SEMAP overall performance rating of "troubled". If a PHA does not yet have a SEMAP rating, HUD will consider the PHA's SEMAP certification.

(3) HUD approval of success rate payment standard amounts shall be for all unit sizes in the FMR area. A PHA may opt to establish a success rate payment standard amount for one or more unit sizes in all or a designated part of the PHA jurisdiction within the FMR area.
