
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart L - Family Obligations; Denial and Termination of Assistance
###### ยง 982.551 Obligations of participant.
####### Use and occupancy of unit

(h)-(1) The family must use the assisted unit for residence by the family. The unit must be the family's only residence.

(2) The composition of the assisted family residing in the unit must be approved by the PHA. The family must promptly inform the PHA of the birth, adoption or court-awarded custody of a child. The family must request PHA approval to add any other family member as an occupant of the unit. No other person [i.e., nobody but members of the assisted family] may reside in the unit (except for a foster child or live-in aide as provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section).

(3) The family must promptly notify the PHA if any family member no longer resides in the unit.

(4) If the PHA has given approval, a foster child or a live-in-aide may reside in the unit. The PHA has the discretion to adopt reasonable policies concerning residence by a foster child or a live-in-aide, and defining when PHA consent may be given or denied.

(5) Members of the household may engage in legal profitmaking activities in the unit, but only if such activities are incidental to primary use of the unit for residence by members of the family.

(6) The family must not sublease or let the unit.

(7) The family must not assign the lease or transfer the unit.
