
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart L - Family Obligations; Denial and Termination of Assistance
###### ยง 982.552 PHA denial or termination of assistance for family.
####### Requirement to deny admission or terminate assistance.

(b)(1) For provisions on denial of admission and termination of assistance for illegal drug use, other criminal activity, and alcohol abuse that would threaten other residents, see ยง 982.553.

(2) The PHA must terminate program assistance for a family evicted from housing assisted under the program for serious violation of the lease.

(3) The PHA must deny admission to the program for an applicant, or terminate program assistance for a participant, if any member of the family fails to sign and submit consent forms for obtaining information in accordance with part 5, subparts B and F of this title.

(4) The family must submit required evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status. See part 5 of this title for a statement of circumstances in which the PHA must deny admission or terminate program assistance because a family member does not establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, and the applicable informal hearing procedures.

(5) The PHA must deny or terminate assistance if any family member fails to meet the eligibility requirements concerning individuals enrolled at an institution of higher education as specified in 24 CFR 5.612.
