
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart L - Family Obligations; Denial and Termination of Assistance
###### § 982.552 PHA denial or termination of assistance for family.
####### Authority to deny admission or terminate assistance,Grounds for denial or termination of assistance.

(c)-(1)The PHA may at any time deny program assistance for an applicant, or terminate program assistance for a participant, for any of the following grounds:

(i) If the family violates any family obligations under the program (see § 982.551). See § 982.553 concerning denial or termination of assistance for crime by family members.

(ii) If any member of the family has been evicted from federally assisted housing in the last five years;

(iii) If a PHA has ever terminated assistance under the program for any member of the family.

(iv) If any member of the family has committed fraud, bribery, or any other corrupt or criminal act in connection with any Federal housing program (see also § 982.553(a)(1));

(v) If the family currently owes rent or other amounts to the PHA or to another PHA in connection with Section 8 or public housing assistance under the 1937 Act.

(vi) If the family has not reimbursed any PHA for amounts paid to an owner under a HAP contract for rent, damages to the unit, or other amounts owed by the family under the lease.

(vii) If the family breaches an agreement with the PHA to pay amounts owed to a PHA, or amounts paid to an owner by a PHA. (The PHA, at its discretion, may offer a family the opportunity to enter an agreement to pay amounts owed to a PHA or amounts paid to an owner by a PHA. The PHA may prescribe the terms of the agreement.)

(viii) If a family participating in the FSS program fails to comply, without good cause, with the family's FSS contract of participation.

(ix) If the family has engaged in or threatened abusive or violent behavior toward PHA personnel.

(x) If a welfare-to-work (WTW) family fails, willfully and persistently, to fulfill its obligations under the welfare-to-work voucher program.

(xi) If the family has been engaged in criminal activity or alcohol abuse as described in § 982.553.
