
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Special Housing Types
###### Manufactured Home Space Rental
####### ยง 982.622 Manufactured home space rental: Rent to owner.
######## Reasonable rent.

(b)(1) During the assisted tenancy, the rent to owner for the manufactured home space may not exceed a reasonable rent as determined in accordance with this section. Section 982.503 is not applicable.

(2) The PHA may not approve a lease for a manufactured home space until the PHA determines that the initial rent to owner for the space is a reasonable rent. At least annually during the assisted tenancy, the PHA must redetermine that the current rent to owner is a reasonable rent.

(3) The PHA must determine whether the rent to owner for the manufactured home space is a reasonable rent in comparison to rent for other comparable manufactured home spaces. To make this determination, the PHA must consider the location and size of the space, and any services and maintenance to be provided by the owner in accordance with the lease (without a fee in addition to the rent).

(4) By accepting each monthly housing assistance payment from the PHA, the owner of the manufactured home space certifies that the rent to owner for the space is not more than rent charged by the owner for unassisted rental of comparable spaces in the same manufactured home park or elsewhere. The owner must give the PHA information, as requested by the PHA, on rents charged by the owner for other manufactured home spaces.
