
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Special Housing Types
###### Cooperative
####### ยง 982.619 Cooperative housing.
######## Maintenance.

(d)(1) During the term of the HAP contract between the PHA and the cooperative, the dwelling unit and premises must be maintained in accordance with the HQS. If the dwelling unit and premises are not maintained in accordance with the HQS, the PHA may exercise all available remedies, regardless of whether the family or the cooperative is responsible for such breach of the HQS. PHA remedies for breach of the HQS include recovery of overpayments, abatement or other reduction of housing assistance payments, termination of housing assistance payments and termination of the HAP contract.

(2) The PHA may not make any housing assistance payments if the contract unit does not meet the HQS, unless any defect is corrected within the period specified by the PHA and the PHA verifies the correction. If a defect is life-threatening, the defect must be corrected within no more than 24 hours. For other defects, the defect must be corrected within the period specified by the PHA.

(3) The family is responsible for a breach of the HQS that is caused by any of the following:

(i) The family fails to perform any maintenance for which the family is responsible in accordance with the terms of the cooperative occupancy agreement between the cooperative member and the cooperative;

(ii) The family fails to pay for any utilities that the cooperative is not required to pay for, but which are to be paid by the cooperative member;

(iii) The family fails to provide and maintain any appliances that the cooperative is not required to provide, but which are to be provided by the cooperative member; or

(iv) Any member of the household or guest damages the dwelling unit or premises (damages beyond ordinary wear and tear).

(4) If the family has caused a breach of the HQS for which the family is responsible, the PHA must take prompt and vigorous action to enforce such family obligations. The PHA may terminate assistance for violation of family obligations in accordance with ยง 982.552.

(5) Section 982.404 does not apply to assistance for cooperative housing under this section.
