
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Special Housing Types
###### Homeownership Option
####### ยง 982.627 Homeownership option: Eligibility requirements for families.
######## Determination whether family is qualified.

(a)The PHA may not provide homeownership assistance for a family unless the PHA determines that the family satisfies all of the following initial requirements at commencement of homeownership assistance for the family:

(1) The family has been admitted to the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program, in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(2) The family satisfies any first-time homeowner requirements (described in paragraph (b) of this section).

(3) The family satisfies the minimum income requirement (described in paragraph (c) of this section).

(4) The family satisfies the employment requirements (described in paragraph (d) of this section).

(5) The family has not defaulted on a mortgage securing debt to purchase a home under the homeownership option (see paragraph (e) of this section).

(6) Except for cooperative members who have acquired cooperative membership shares prior to commencement of homeownership assistance, no family member has a present ownership interest in a residence at the commencement of homeownership assistance for the purchase of any home.

(7) Except for cooperative members who have acquired cooperative membership shares prior to the commencement of homeownership assistance, the family has entered a contract of sale in accordance with ยง 982.631(c).

(8) The family also satisfies any other initial requirements established by the PHA (see ยง 982.626(b)). Any such additional requirements must be described in the PHA administrative plan.
