
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Special Housing Types
###### Homeownership Option
####### ยง 982.627 Homeownership option: Eligibility requirements for families.
######## Employment requirements.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the family must demonstrate that one or more adult members of the family who will own the home at commencement of homeownership assistance:

(i) Is currently employed on a full-time basis (the term "full-time employment" means not less than an average of 30 hours per week); and

(ii) Has been continuously so employed during the year before commencement of homeownership assistance for the family.

(2) The PHA shall have discretion to determine whether and to what extent interruptions are considered to break continuity of employment during the year. The PHA may count successive employment during the year. The PHA may count self-employment in a business.

(3) The employment requirement does not apply to an elderly family or a disabled family (see the definitions of these terms at ยง 5.403(b) of this title). Furthermore, if a family, other than an elderly family or a disabled family, includes a person with disabilities, the PHA shall grant an exemption from the employment requirement if the PHA determines that an exemption is needed as a reasonable accommodation so that the program is readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities in accordance with part 8 of this title.

(4) A PHA may not establish an employment requirement in addition to the employment standard established by this paragraph.
