
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Special Housing Types
###### Homeownership Option
####### ยง 982.631 Homeownership option: Home inspections, contract of sale, and PHA disapproval of seller.
######## Independent inspection.

(b)(1) The unit must also be inspected by an independent professional inspector selected by and paid by the family.

(2) The independent inspection must cover major building systems and components, including foundation and structure, housing interior and exterior, and the roofing, plumbing, electrical, and heating systems. The independent inspector must be qualified to report on property conditions, including major building systems and components.

(3) The PHA may not require the family to use an independent inspector selected by the PHA. The independent inspector may not be a PHA employee or contractor, or other person under control of the PHA. However, the PHA may establish standards for qualification of inspectors selected by families under the homeownership option.

(4) The independent inspector must provide a copy of the inspection report both to the family and to the PHA. The PHA may not commence monthly homeownership assistance payments, or provide a downpayment assistance grant for the family, until the PHA has reviewed the inspection report of the independent inspector. Even if the unit otherwise complies with the HQS (and may qualify for assistance under the PHA's tenant-based rental voucher program), the PHA shall have discretion to disapprove the unit for assistance under the homeownership option because of information in the inspection report.
