
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 982 - SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM
##### Subpart M - Special Housing Types
###### Homeownership Option
####### ยง 982.631 Homeownership option: Home inspections, contract of sale, and PHA disapproval of seller.
######## Contract of sale.

(c)(1) Before commencement of monthly homeownership assistance payments or receipt of a downpayment assistance grant, a member or members of the family must enter into a contract of sale with the seller of the unit to be acquired by the family. The family must give the PHA a copy of the contract of sale (see also ยง 982.627(a)(7)).

(2) The contract of sale must:

(i) Specify the price and other terms of sale by the seller to the purchaser.

(ii) Provide that the purchaser will arrange for a pre-purchase inspection of the dwelling unit by an independent inspector selected by the purchaser.

(iii) Provide that the purchaser is not obligated to purchase the unit unless the inspection is satisfactory to the purchaser.

(iv) Provide that the purchaser is not obligated to pay for any necessary repairs.

(3) In addition to the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a contract for the sale of units not yet under construction at the time the family is to enter into the contract for sale must also provide that:

(i) The purchaser is not obligated to purchase the unit unless an environmental review has been performed and the site has received environmental approval prior to commencement of construction in accordance with 24 CFR 982.628.

(ii) The construction will not commence until the environmental review has been completed and the seller has received written notice from the PHA that environmental approval has been obtained. Conduct of the environmental review may not necessarily result in environmental approval, and environmental approval may be conditioned on the contracting parties' agreement to modifications to the unit design or to mitigation actions.

(iii) Commencement of construction in violation of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section voids the purchase contract and renders homeownership assistance under 24 CFR part 982 unavailable for purchase of the unit.
