
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 983 - PROJECT-BASED VOUCHER (PBV) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Selection of PBV Owner Proposals
###### ยง 983.56 Cap on number of PBV units in each project.
####### Exception to 25 percent per building cap,When PBV units are not counted against cap.

(b)-(1)In the following cases, PBV units are not counted against the 25 percent per project cap:

(i) Units in a single-family building;

(ii) Excepted units in a multifamily project.

(2) Terms (i) "Excepted units" means units in a multifamily project that are specifically made available for qualifying families.

(ii) "Qualifying families" means:

(A) Elderly and/or disabled families; and/or

(B) Families receiving supportive services. PHAs must include in the PHA administrative plan the type of services offered to families for a project to qualify for the exception and the extent to which such services will be provided. It is not necessary that the services be provided at or by the project, if they are approved services. To qualify, a family must have at least one member receiving at least one qualifying supportive service. A PHA may not require participation in medical or disability-related services other than drug and alcohol treatment in the case of current abusers as a condition of living in an excepted unit, although such services may be offered. If a family at the time of initial tenancy is receiving, and while the resident of an excepted unit has received, FSS supportive services or any other supportive services as defined in the PHA administrative plan, and successfully completes the FSS contract of participation or the supportive services requirement, the unit continues to count as an excepted unit for as long as the family resides in the unit. If a family in an excepted unit fails without good cause to complete its FSS contract of participation or if the family fails to complete the supportive services requirement as outlined in the PHA administrative plan, the PHA will take the actions provided under ยง 983.262(d), and the owner may terminate the lease in accordance with ยง 983.257(c). Also, at the time of initial lease execution between the family and the owner, the family and the PHA must sign a statement of family responsibility. The statement of family responsibility must contain all family obligations including the family's participation in a service program under this section. Failure by the family without good cause to fulfill its service obligation will require the PHA to terminate assistance. If the unit at the time of such termination is an excepted unit, the exception continues to apply to the unit as long as the unit is made available to another qualifying family.

(C) The PHA must monitor the excepted family's continued receipt of supportive services and take appropriate action regarding those families that fail without good cause to complete their supportive services requirement. The PHA administrative plan must state the form and frequency of such monitoring.
