
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 983 - PROJECT-BASED VOUCHER (PBV) PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Housing Assistance Payments Contract
###### ยง 983.205 Term of HAP contract.
####### Extension of term.

(b)A PHA may agree to enter into an extension at the time of the initial HAP contract term or any time before expiration of the contract, for an additional term of up to 15 years if the PHA determines an extension is appropriate to continue providing affordable housing for low-income families. A HAP contract extension may not exceed 15 years. A PHA may provide for multiple extensions; however, in no circumstance may such extensions exceed 15 years, cumulatively. Extensions after the initial extension are allowed at the end of any extension term provided that not more than 24 months prior to the expiration of the previous extension contract, the PHA agrees to extend the term, and that such extension is appropriate to continue providing affordable housing for low-income families or to expand housing opportunities. Extensions after the initial extension term shall not begin prior to the expiration date of the previous extension term. Subsequent extensions are subject to the same limitations described in this paragraph. Any extension of the term must be on the form and subject to the conditions prescribed by HUD at the time of the extension. In the case of PHA-owned units, any extension of the initial term of the HAP contract shall be determined in accordance with ยง 983.59.
