
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 983 - PROJECT-BASED VOUCHER (PBV) PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Occupancy
###### ยง 983.261 Family right to move.

(a) The family may terminate the assisted lease at any time after the first year of occupancy. The family must give the owner advance written notice of intent to vacate (with a copy to the PHA) in accordance with the lease.

(b) If the family has elected to terminate the lease in this manner, the PHA must offer the family the opportunity for continued tenant-based rental assistance, in the form of either assistance under the voucher program or other comparable tenant-based rental assistance.

(c) Before providing notice to terminate the lease under paragraph (a) of this section, a family must contact the PHA to request comparable tenant-based rental assistance if the family wishes to move with continued assistance. If voucher or other comparable tenant-based rental assistance is not immediately available upon termination of the family's lease of a PBV unit, the PHA must give the family priority to receive the next available opportunity for continued tenant-based rental assistance.

(1) The above policies do not apply when the family or a member of the family is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and the move is needed to protect the health or safety of the family or family member, or any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move. A PHA may not terminate assistance if the family, with or without prior notification to the PHA, moves out of a unit in violation of the lease, if such move occurs to protect the health or safety of a family member who is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and who reasonably believed he or she was threatened with imminent harm from further violence if he or she remained in the dwelling unit, or any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move.

(2) If a family breaks up as a result of an occurrence of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, the PHA may offer the victim the opportunity for continued tenant-based rental assistance.

(d) If the family terminates the assisted lease before the end of one year, the family relinquishes the opportunity for continued tenant-based assistance.
