
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 984 - SECTION 8 AND PUBLIC HOUSING FAMILY SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 984.106 Cooperative Agreements.

(a) A PHA may enter into a Cooperative Agreement with one or more owners to voluntarily make an FSS program available to the owner's multifamily assisted housing tenants.

(b) A PHA and owner that enter into a Cooperative Agreement to make an FSS program available pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, are subject to this part and the following requirements:

(1) The PHA must open its FSS waiting list to any eligible family residing in the multifamily assisted housing covered by the Cooperative Agreement.

(2) The owner must provide, at the request of the PHA, information on escrow amounts for participating multifamily assisted housing tenants. The Cooperative Agreement must provide that the owner is responsible for managing the escrow account for participating multifamily assisted housing tenants, including calculating and tracking of escrow in accordance with § 984.305. The Cooperative Agreement must set forth the procedures that will be in place for the exchange of escrow information between the PHA and the owner.

(3) The PHA may count multifamily assisted housing families served pursuant to a Cooperative Agreement under this subpart as part of the calculation of the FSS award under §§ 984.107 and 984.302.

(4) The PHA may use FSS appropriated funds to serve multifamily assisted housing tenants subject to a Cooperative Agreement under this section.

(5) The Cooperative Agreement must clearly specify the terms and conditions of such agreement, including the requirements of this section, and it must include a process for entities for PHAs and owners to communicate with each other about changes in their Action Plan.
