
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### Selection from the waiting list.

(a)(1) This indicator shows whether the PHA has written policies in its administrative plan for selecting applicants from the waiting list and whether the PHA follows these policies when selecting applicants for admission from the waiting list. (24 CFR 982.54(d)(1) and 982.204(a))

(2) HUD verification method: The independent auditor (IA) annual audit report covering the PHA fiscal year entered on the SEMAP certification and on-site confirmatory review if performed.

(3) Rating: (i) The PHA's SEMAP certification states that:

(A) The PHA has written waiting list selection policies in its administrative plan and,

(B) Based on the PHA's quality control samples, drawn separately for applicants reaching the top of the waiting list and for admissions, documentation shows that at least 98 percent of the families in both samples of applicants and admissions were selected from the waiting list for admission in accordance with these policies and met the selection criteria that determined their places on the waiting list and their order of selection. 15 points.

(ii) The PHA's SEMAP certification does not support the statement in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. 0 points.
