
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### Deconcentration bonus.

(h)(1) Submission of deconcentration data in the HUD-prescribed format for this indicator is mandatory for a PHA using one or more payment standard amount(s) that exceed(s) 100 percent of the published FMR set at the 50th percentile rent to provide access to a broad range of housing opportunities throughout a metropolitan area in accordance with ยง 888.113(c) of this title, starting with the second full PHA fiscal year following initial use of payment standard amounts based on the FMR set at the 50th percentile rent. Submission of deconcentration data for this indicator is optional for all other PHAs. Additional SEMAP points are available to PHAs that have jurisdiction in metropolitan FMR areas and that choose to submit with their SEMAP certifications certain data, in a HUD-prescribed format, on the percent of their tenant-based Section 8 families with children who live in, and who have moved during the PHA fiscal year to, low poverty census tracts in the PHA's principal operating area. For purposes of this indicator, the PHA's principal operating area is the geographic entity for which the Census tabulates data that most closely matches the PHA's geographic jurisdiction under State or local law (e.g., city, county, metropolitan statistical area) as determined by the PHA, subject to HUD review. A low poverty census tract is defined as a census tract where the poverty rate of the tract is at or below 10 percent, or at or below the overall poverty rate for the principal operating area of the PHA, whichever is greater. The PHA determines the overall poverty rate for its principal operating area using the most recent available decennial Census data. Family data used for the PHA's analysis must be the same information as reported to MTCS for the PHA's tenant-based Section 8 families with children. If HUD determines that the quantity of MTCS data is insufficient for adequate analysis, HUD will not award points under this bonus indicator. Bonus points will be awarded if:

(i) Half or more of all Section 8 families with children assisted by the PHA in its principal operating area at the end of the last completed PHA fiscal year reside in low poverty census tracts;

(ii) The percent of Section 8 mover families with children who moved to low poverty census tracts in the PHA's principal operating area during the last completed PHA fiscal year is at least 2 percentage points higher than the percent of all Section 8 families with children who reside in low poverty census tracts at the end of the last completed PHA fiscal year; or

(iii) The percent of Section 8 families with children who moved to low-poverty census tracts in the PHA's principal operating area over the last two completed PHA fiscal years is at least 2 percentage points higher than the percent of all Section 8 families with children who resided in low poverty census tracts at the end of the second to last completed PHA fiscal year.

(iv) State and regional PHAs that provide Section 8 rental assistance in more than one metropolitan area within a State or region make these determinations separately for each metropolitan area or portion of a metropolitan area where the PHA has assisted at least 20 Section 8 families with children in the last completed PHA fiscal year.

(2) HUD verification methods: PHA data submitted for the deconcentration bonus, the IA annual audit report covering the PHA fiscal year entered on the SEMAP certification, and on-site confirmatory review if performed.

(3) Rating: (i) The data submitted by the PHA for the deconcentration bonus shows that the PHA met the requirements for bonus points in paragraph (h)(1)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this section. 5 points.

(ii) The data submitted by the PHA for the deconcentration bonus does not show that the PHA met the requirements for bonus points in paragraph (h)(1)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this section. 0 points.
