
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### Determination of adjusted income.

(c)(1) This indicator shows whether, at the time of admission and annual reexamination, the PHA verifies and correctly determines adjusted annual income for each assisted family and, where the family is responsible for utilities under the lease, the PHA uses the appropriate utility allowances for the unit leased in determining the gross rent. (24 CFR part 5, subpart F and 24 CFR 982.516)

(2) HUD verification method: The IA annual audit report covering the PHA fiscal year entered on the SEMAP certification and on-site confirmatory review if performed.

(3) Rating: (i) The PHA's SEMAP certification states that, based on the PHA's quality control sample of tenant files, for at least 90 percent of families:

(A) The PHA obtains third party verification of reported family annual income, the value of assets totalling more than $5,000, expenses related to deductions from annual income, and other factors that affect the determination of adjusted income, and uses the verified information in determining adjusted income, and/or documents tenant files to show why third party verification was not available;

(B) The PHA properly attributes and calculates allowances for any medical, child care, and/or disability assistance expenses; and

(C) The PHA uses the appropriate utility allowances to determine gross rent for the unit leased. 20 points.

(ii) The PHA's SEMAP certification includes the statements in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, except that the PHA obtains and uses independent verification of income, properly attributes allowances, and uses the appropriate utility allowances for only 80 to 89 percent of families. 15 points.

(iii) The PHA's SEMAP certification does not support the statements in either paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section. 0 points.
