
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### Payment standards.

(i)(1) This indicator shows whether the PHA has adopted a payment standard schedule that establishes voucher payment standard amounts by unit size for each FMR area in the PHA jurisdiction, and, if applicable, separate payment standard amounts by unit size for a PHA-designated part of an FMR area, which payment standards do not exceed 110 percent of the current applicable published FMRs and which are not less than 90 percent of the current applicable published FMRs (unless a higher or lower payment standard amount is approved by HUD). (ยง 982.503 of this chapter.) For purposes of this paragraph, payment standards that do not exceed 110 percent of the current applicable published FMRs include exception payment standards established by the PHA in accordance with 982.503(c)(iii).

(2) HUD verification method: PHA data submitted on the SEMAP certification form concerning payment standards.

(3) Rating:

(i) The PHA's voucher program payment standard schedule contains payment standards which do not exceed 110 percent of the current applicable published FMR and which are not less than 90 percent of the current applicable published FMR (unless a higher or lower payment standard amount is approved by HUD). 5 points.

(ii) The PHA's voucher program payment standard schedule contains payment standards which exceed 110 percent of the current applicable published FMRs or which are less than 90 percent of the current applicable published FMRs (unless a higher or lower payment standard amount is approved by HUD). 0 points.
