
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### HQS enforcement.

(f)(1) This indicator shows whether, following each HQS inspection of a unit under contract where the unit fails to meet HQS, any cited life-threatening HQS deficiencies are corrected within 24 hours from the inspection and all other cited HQS deficiencies are corrected within no more than 30 calendar days from the inspection or any PHA-approved extension. In addition, if HQS deficiencies are not corrected timely, the indicator shows whether the PHA stops (abates) housing assistance payments beginning no later than the first of the month following the specified correction period or terminates the HAP contract or, for family-caused defects, takes prompt and vigorous action to enforce the family obligations. (24 CFR 982.404)

(2) HUD verification method: The IA annual audit report covering the PHA fiscal year entered on the SEMAP certification and on-site confirmatory review if performed.

(3) Rating: (i) The PHA's SEMAP certification states that the PHA's quality control sample of case files with failed HQS inspections shows that, for all cases sampled, any cited life-threatening HQS deficiencies were corrected within 24 hours from the inspection and, for at least 98 percent of cases sampled, all other cited HQS deficiencies were corrected within no more than 30 calendar days from the inspection or any PHA-approved extension, or, if any life-threatening HQS deficiencies were not corrected within 24 hours and all other HQS deficiencies were not corrected within 30 calendar days or any PHA-approved extension, the PHA stopped (abated) housing assistance payments beginning no later than the first of the month following the correction period, or took prompt and vigorous action to enforce family obligations. 10 points.

(ii) The PHA's SEMAP certification does not support the statement in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section. 0 points.
