
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### HQS quality control inspections.

(e)(1) This indicator shows whether an PHA supervisor or other qualified person reinspects a sample of units under contract during the PHA fiscal year, which meets the minimum sample size requirements specified at ยง 985.2 under PHA's quality control sample, for quality control of HQS inspections. The PHA supervisor's reinspected sample is to be drawn from recently completed HQS inspections (i.e., performed during the 3 months preceding reinspection) and is to be drawn to represent a cross section of neighborhoods and the work of a cross section of inspectors. (24 CFR 982.405(b))

(2) HUD verification method: The IA annual audit report covering the PHA fiscal year entered on the SEMAP certification and on-site confirmatory review if performed.

(3) Rating: (i) The PHA's SEMAP certification states that an PHA supervisor or other qualified person performed quality control HQS reinspections during the PHA fiscal year for a sample of units under contract which meets the minimum sample size requirements specified in ยง 983.2 under PHA's quality control sample. The PHA's SEMAP certification also states that the reinspected sample was drawn from recently completed HQS inspections (i.e., performed during the 3 months preceding the quality control reinspection) and was drawn to represent a cross section of neighborhoods and the work of a cross section of inspectors. 5 points.

(ii) The PHA's SEMAP certification does not support the statements in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. 0 points.
