
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.

This section states the performance indicators that are used to assess PHA Section 8 management. HUD will use the verification method identified for each indicator in reviewing the accuracy of an PHA's annual SEMAP certification. HUD will prepare a SEMAP profile for each PHA and will assign a rating for each indicator as shown. If the HUD verification method for the indicator relies on data in MTCS and HUD determines those data are insufficient to verify the PHA's certification on the indicator due to the PHA's failure to adequately report family data, HUD will assign a zero rating for the indicator. The method for selecting the PHA's quality control sample under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (f) of this section must leave a clear audit trail that can be used to verify that the PHA's quality control sample was drawn in an unbiased manner.

An PHA that expends less than $300,000 in Federal awards and whose Section 8 programs are not audited by an independent auditor (IA), will not be rated under the SEMAP indicators in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for which the annual IA audit report is a HUD verification method. For those PHAs, the SEMAP score and overall performance rating will be determined based only on the remaining indicators in paragraphs (i) through (o) of this section as applicable. Although the SEMAP performance rating will not be determined using the indicators in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section, PHAs not subject to Federal audit requirements must still complete the SEMAP certification for these indicators and performance under the indicators is subject to HUD confirmatory reviews.
