
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 985.3 Indicators, HUD verification methods and ratings.
####### Family self-sufficiency (FSS) enrollment and escrow accounts.

(o)(1) This indicator applies only to PHAs with mandatory FSS programs. The indicator consists of 2 components which show whether the PHA has enrolled families in the FSS program as required, and the extent of the PHA's progress in supporting FSS by measuring the percent of current FSS participants with FSS progress reports entered in MTCS that have had increases in earned income which resulted in escrow account balances. (24 CFR 984.105 and 984.305)

(2) HUD verification method: MTCS report-Shows number of families currently enrolled in FSS. This number is divided by the number of mandatory FSS slots, as determined under ยง 984.105 of this chapter. An MTCS report also shows the percent of FSS families with FSS progress reports who have escrow account balances. HUD also uses information reported on the SEMAP certification by initial PHAs concerning FSS families enrolled in their FSS programs but who have moved under portability to the jurisdiction of another PHA.

(3) Rating:

(i) The PHA has filled 80 percent or more of its mandatory FSS slots and 30 percent or more of FSS families have escrow account balances. 10 points.

(ii) The PHA has filled 60 to 79 percent of its mandatory FSS slots and 30 percent or more of FSS families have escrow account balances. 8 points.

(iii) The PHA has filled 80 percent or more of its mandatory FSS slots, but fewer than 30 percent of FSS families have escrow account balances. 5 points.

(iv) 30 percent or more of FSS families have escrow account balances, but fewer than 60 percent of the PHA's mandatory FSS slots are filled. 5 points.

(v) The PHA has filled 60 to 79 percent of its mandatory FSS slots, but fewer than 30 percent of FSS families have escrow account balances. 3 points.

(vi) The PHA has filled fewer than 60 percent of its mandatory FSS slots and less than 30 percent of FSS families have escrow account balances. 0 points.
