
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 985 - SECTION 8 MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (SEMAP)
##### Subpart B - Program Operation
###### ยง 985.101 SEMAP certification.

(a) An PHA must submit the HUD-required SEMAP certification form within 60 calendar days after the end of its fiscal year.

(1) The certification must be approved by PHA board resolution and signed by the PHA executive director. If the PHA is a unit of local government or a state, a resolution approving the certification is not required, and the certification must be executed by the Section 8 program director.

(2) An PHA that subcontracts administration of its program to one or more subcontractors shall require each subcontractor to submit the subcontractor's own SEMAP certification on the HUD-prescribed form to the PHA in support of the PHA's SEMAP certification to HUD. The PHA shall retain subcontractor certifications for 3 years.

(3) An PHA may include with its SEMAP certification any information bearing on the accuracy or completeness of the information used by the PHA in providing its certification.

(b) Failure of an PHA to submit its SEMAP certification within 60 calendar days after the end of its fiscal year will result in an overall performance rating of troubled and the PHA will be subject to the requirements at ยง 985.107.

(c) An PHA's SEMAP certification is subject to HUD verification by an on-site confirmatory review at any time.
