
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 990 - THE PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Calculating Formula Expenses
###### ยง 990.190 Other formula expenses (add-ons).
####### Asset repositioning fee.

(h)(1) A PHA that transitions projects or entire buildings of a project out of its inventory is eligible for an asset-repositioning fee. This fee supplements the costs associated with administration and management of demolition or disposition, tenant relocation, and minimum protection and service associated with such efforts. The asset-repositioning fee is not intended for individual units within a multi-unit building undergoing similar activities.

(2) Projects covered by applications approved for demolition or disposition shall be eligible for an asset repositioning fee on the first day of the next quarter six months after the date the first unit becomes vacant after the relocation date included in the approved relocation plan. When this condition is met, the project and all associated units are no longer considered an EUM as described in ยง 990.155. Each PHA is responsible for accurately applying and maintaining supporting documentation on the start date of this transition period or is subject to forfeiture of this add-on.

(3) Units categorized for demolition and which are eligible for an asset repositioning fee are eligible for operating subsidy at the rate of 75 percent PEL per unit for the first twelve months, 50 percent PEL per unit for the next twelve months, and 25 percent PEL per unit for the next twelve months.

(4) Units categorized for disposition and which are eligible for an asset repositioning fee are eligible for operating subsidy at the rate of 75 percent PEL per unit for the first twelve months and 50 percent PEL per unit for the next twelve months.

(5) The following is an example of how eligibility for an asset-repositioning fee is determined:

(i) A PHA has HUD's approval to demolish (or dispose of) a 100-unit project from its 1,000 unit inventory. On January 12th, in conjunction with the PHA's approved Relocation Plan, a unit in that project becomes vacant. Accordingly, the demolition/disposition-approved project is eligible for an asset-repositioning fee on October 1st. (This date is calculated as follows: January 12th + six months = July 12th. The first day of the next quarter is October 1st.)

(ii) Although payment of the asset-repositioning fee will not begin until October 1st, the PHA will receive its full operating subsidy based on the 1,000 units through September 30th. On October 1st the PHA will begin to receive the 36-month asset-repositioning fee in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section for the 100 units approved for demolition. (Asset repositioning fee requirements for projects approved for disposition are found in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.) On October 1st, the PHA's units will be 900.
