
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1000.20 Is an Indian tribe required to assume environmental review responsibilities?

(a) No. It is an option an Indian tribe may choose. If an Indian tribe declines to assume the environmental review responsibilities, HUD will perform the environmental review in accordance with 24 CFR part 50. The timing of HUD undertaking the environmental review will be subject to the availability of resources. A HUD environmental review must be completed for any NAHASDA assisted activities not excluded from review under 24 CFR 50.19(b) before a recipient may acquire, rehabilitate, convert, lease, repair or construct property, or commit HUD or local funds used in conjunction with such NAHASDA assisted activities with respect to the property.

(b) If an Indian tribe assumes environmental review responsibilities:

(1) Its certifying officer must certify that he/she is authorized and consents on behalf of the Indian tribe and such officer to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal courts for the purpose of enforcement of the responsibilities of the certifying officer as set forth in section 105(c) of NAHASDA; and

(2) The Indian tribe must follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 58.

(3) No funds may be committed to a grant activity or project before the completion of the environmental review and approval of the request for release of funds and related certification required by sections 105(b) and 105(c) of NAHASDA, except as authorized by 24 CFR part 58 such as for the costs of environmental reviews and other planning and administrative expenses.

(c) Where an environmental assessment (EA) is appropriate under 24 CFR part 50, instead of an Indian tribe assuming environmental review responsibilities under paragraph (b) of this section or HUD preparing the EA itself under paragraph (a) of this section, an Indian tribe or TDHE may prepare an EA for HUD review. In addition to complying with the requirements of 40 CFR 1506.5(a), HUD shall make its own evaluation of the environmental issues and take responsibility for the scope and content of the EA in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.5(b).
