
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1000.26 What are the administrative requirements under NAHASDA?
####### Utilizing Federal supply sources in procurement.

(ii)In accordance with Section 101(j) of NAHASDA, recipients may use Federal supply sources made available by the General Services Administration pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 501.

(12) Section 200.325, "Bonding requirements," applies. There may be circumstances under which the bonding requirements of 2 CFR 200.325 are inconsistent with other responsibilities and obligations of the recipient. In such circumstances, acceptable methods to provide performance and payment assurance may include:

(i) Deposit with the recipient of a cash escrow of not less than 20 percent of the total contract price, subject to reduction during the warranty period, commensurate with potential risk;

(ii) Letter of credit for 25 percent of the total contract price, unconditionally payable upon demand of the recipient, subject to reduction during any warranty period commensurate with potential risk; or

(iii) Letter of credit for 10 percent of the total contract price, unconditionally payable upon demand of the recipient, subject to reduction during any warranty period commensurate with potential risk, and compliance with the procedures for monitoring of disbursements by the contractor.

(13) Section 200.328(b) through (d) and (f), "Monitoring and reporting program performance."

(14) Section 200.333, "Retention requirements for records."

(15) Section 200.338, "Remedies for noncompliance."

(16) Section 200.343, "Closeout."

(b)(1) With respect to the applicability of cost principles, all items of cost listed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, which require prior Federal agency approval are allowable without the prior approval of HUD to the extent that they comply with the general policies and principles stated in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and are otherwise eligible under this part, except for the following:

(i) Depreciation method for fixed assets shall not be changed without the approval of the Federal cognizant agency.

(ii) Penalties, damages, fines and other settlements are unallowable costs to the IHBG program.
