
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1000.48 Are Indian or tribal preference requirements applicable to IHBG activities?

Grants under this part are subject to Indian preference under section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450e(b)) or, if applicable under section 101(k) of NAHASDA, tribal preference in employment and contracting.

(a)(1) Section 7(b) provides that any contract, subcontract, grant, or subgrant pursuant to an act authorizing grants to Indian organizations or for the benefit of Indians shall require that, to the greatest extent feasible:

(i) Preference and opportunities for training and employment shall be given to Indians; and

(ii) Preference in the award of contracts and subcontracts shall be given to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises as defined in section 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452).

(2) The following definitions apply:

(i) The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act defines "Indian" to mean a person who is a member of an Indian tribe and defines "Indian tribe" to mean any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(ii) In section 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974, "economic enterprise" is defined as any Indian-owned commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, except that Indian ownership must constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise. This act defines "Indian organization" to mean the governing body of any Indian tribe or entity established or recognized by such governing body.

(b) If tribal employment and contract preference laws have not been adopted by the Indian tribe, section 7(b) Indian preference provisions shall apply.

(c) Exception for de minimis procurements. A recipient shall not be required to apply Indian preference requirements under Section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act with respect to any procurement, using a grant provided under NAHASDA, of goods and services with a value less than $5,000.
