
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1000.58 Are there limitations on the investment of IHBG funds?
####### et seq.

(2) That it is a self-governance Indian tribe or that it has the administrative capacity and controls to responsibly manage the investment. For purposes of this section, a self-governance Indian tribe is an Indian tribe that participates in tribal self-governance as authorized under Public Law 93-638, as amended (25 U.S.C. 450).

(c) Recipients shall invest IHBG funds only in:

(1) Obligations of the United States; obligations issued by Government sponsored agencies; securities that are guaranteed or insured by the United States; mutual (or other) funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and which invest only in obligations of the United States or securities that are guaranteed or insured by the United States; or

(2) Accounts that are insured by an agency or instrumentality of the United States or fully collateralized to ensure protection of the funds, even in the event of bank failure.

(d) IHBG funds shall be held in one or more accounts separate from other funds of the recipient. Each of these accounts shall be subject to an agreement in a form prescribed by HUD sufficient to implement the regulations in this part and permit HUD to exercise its rights under ยง 1000.60.

(e) Expenditure of funds for affordable housing activities under section 204(a) of NAHASDA shall not be considered investment.

(f) A recipient may invest its IHBG annual grant in an amount equal to the annual formula grant amount.

(g) Investments under this section may be for a period no longer than 5 years.
