
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart B - Affordable Housing Activities
###### ยง 1000.110 Under what conditions may non-low-income Indian families participate in the program?

(a) A family that was low-income at the times described in ยง 1000.147 but subsequently becomes a non-low-income family due to an increase in income may continue to participate in the program in accordance with the recipient's admission and occupancy policies. The 10 percent limitation in paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to such families. Such families may be made subject to the additional requirements in paragraph (d) of this section based on those policies. This includes a family member or household member who takes ownership of a homeownership unit under ยง 1000.146.

(b) A recipient must determine and document that there is a need for housing for each family that cannot reasonably be met without such assistance.

(c) A recipient may use up to 10 percent of the amount planned for the tribal program year for families whose income falls within 80 to 100 percent of the median income without HUD approval. HUD approval is required if a recipient plans to use more than 10 percent of the amount planned for the tribal program year for such assistance or to provide housing for families with income over 100 percent of median income.

(d) Non-low-income families cannot receive the same benefits provided low-income Indian families. The amount of assistance non-low-income families may receive will be determined as follows:

(1) The rent (including homebuyer payments under a lease purchase agreement) to be paid by a non-low-income family cannot be less than: (Income of non-low-income family/Income of family at 80 percent of median income) x (Rental payment of family at 80 percent of median income), but need not exceed the fair market rent or value of the unit.

(2) Other assistance, including down payment assistance, to non-low-income families, cannot exceed: (Income of family at 80 percent of median income/Income of non-low-income family) x (Present value of the assistance provided to family at 80 percent of median income).

(e) The requirements set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section do not apply to non-low-income families that the recipient has determined to be essential under ยง 1000.106(b).
