
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart B - Affordable Housing Activities
###### ยง 1000.158 How will a NAHASDA grant recipient know that the housing assisted under the IHBG program meets the requirements of ยง 1000.156?

(a) A recipient must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section to determine if an assisted housing project meets the moderate design requirements of ยง 1000.156. For purposes of this requirement, a project is one or more housing units, of comparable size, cost, amenities and design, developed with assistance provided by the Act.

(b) The recipient may adopt written standards for its affordable housing programs that reflect the requirement specified in ยง 1000.156. The standards must describe the type of housing, explain the basis for the standards, and use similar housing in the Indian tribe's general geographic area. For each affordable housing project, the recipient must maintain documentation substantiating compliance with the adopted housing standards. The standards and documentation substantiating compliance for each activity must be available for review by the general public and, upon request, by HUD. Prior to awarding a contract for the construction of housing or beginning construction using its own workforce, the recipient must complete a comparison of the cost of developing or acquiring/rehabilitating the affordable housing with the limits provided by the TDC discussed in paragraph (c) of this section and may not, without prior HUD approval, exceed by more than 10 percent the TDC maximum cost for the project. In developing standards under this paragraph, the recipient must establish, maintain, and follow policies that determine a local definition of moderate design which considers:

(1) Gross area;

(2) Total cost to provide the housing;

(3) Environmental concerns and mitigations;

(4) Climate;

(5) Comparable housing in geographical area;

(6) Local codes, ordinances and standards;

(7) Cultural relevance in design;

(8) Design and construction features that are reasonable, and necessary to provide decent, safe, sanitary and affordable housing; and

(9) Design and construction features that are accessible to persons with a variety of disabilities.

(c) If the recipient has not adopted housing standards specified in paragraph (b) of this section, Total Development Cost (TDC) limits published periodically by HUD establish the maximum amount of funds (from all sources) that the recipient may use to develop or acquire/rehabilitate affordable housing. The recipient must complete a comparison of the cost of developing or acquiring/rehabilitating the affordable housing with the limits provided by the TDC and may not, without prior HUD approval, exceed the TDC maximum cost for the project.
