
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart C - Indian Housing Plan (IHP)
###### ยง 1000.230 What is the process for HUD review of IHPs and IHP amendments?

HUD will conduct the IHP review in the following manner:

(a) HUD will conduct a limited review of the IHP to ensure that its contents:

(1) Comply with the requirements of section 102 of NAHASDA, which outlines the IHP submission requirements; however, the recipient may use either the HUD-estimated IHBG amount or the IHBG amount from their most recent compliant IHP;

(2) Are consistent with information and data available to HUD;

(3) Are not prohibited by or inconsistent with any provision of NAHASDA or other applicable law; and

(4) Include the appropriate certifications.

(b) If the IHP complies with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section, HUD will notify the recipient of IHP compliance within 60 days after receiving the IHP. If HUD fails to notify the recipient, the IHP shall be considered to be in compliance with the requirements of section 102 of NAHASDA and the IHP is approved.

(c) If the submitted IHP does not comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), and (a)(3) of this section, HUD will notify the recipient of the determination of non-compliance. HUD will provide this notice no later than 60 days after receiving the IHP. This notice will set forth:

(1) The reasons for noncompliance;

(2) The modifications necessary for the IHP to meet the submission requirements; and

(3) The date by which the revised IHP must be submitted.

(d) If the recipient does not submit a revised IHP by the date indicated in the notice provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the IHP will be determined by HUD to be in non-compliance unless a waiver is requested and approved under section 101(b)(2) of NAHASDA. If the IHP is determined by HUD to be in non-compliance and no waiver is granted, the recipient may appeal this determination following the appeal process in ยง 1000.234.

(e)(1) If the IHP does not contain the certifications identified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the recipient will be notified within 60 days of submission of the IHP that the plan is incomplete. The notification will include a date by which the certification must be submitted.

(2) If the recipient has not complied or cannot comply with the certification requirements due to circumstances beyond the control of the Indian tribe(s), within the timeframe established, the recipient can request a waiver in accordance with section 101(b)(2) of NAHASDA. If the waiver is approved, the recipient is eligible to receive its grant in accordance with any conditions of the waiver.
