
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart D - Allocation Formula
###### ยง 1000.327 What is the order of preference for allocating the IHBG formula needs data for Indian tribes in Alaska not located on reservations due to the unique circumstances in Alaska?

(a) Data in areas without reservations. The data on population and housing within an Alaska Native Village is credited to the Alaska Native Village. Accordingly, the village corporation for the Alaska Native Village has no needs data and no formula allocation. The data on population and housing outside the Alaska Native Village is credited to the regional Indian tribe, and if there is no regional Indian tribe, the data will be credited to the regional corporation.

(b) Deadline for notification on whether an IHP will be submitted. By September 15 of each year, each Indian tribe in Alaska not located on a reservation, including each Alaska Native village, regional Indian tribe, and regional corporation, or its TDHE must notify HUD in writing whether it or its TDHE intends to submit an IHP. If an Alaska Native village notifies HUD that it does not intend either to submit an IHP or to designate a TDHE to do so, or if HUD receives no response from the Alaska Native village or its TDHE, the formula data which would have been credited to the Alaska Native village will be credited to the regional Indian tribe, or if there is no regional Indian tribe, to the regional corporation.
