
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart E - Federal Guarantees for Financing of Tribal Housing Activities
###### ยง 1000.428 For what reasons may HUD disapprove an application or approve an application for an amount less than that requested?

HUD may disapprove an application or approve a lesser amount for any of the following reasons:

(a) HUD determines that the guarantee constitutes an unacceptable risk. Factors that will be considered in assessing financial risk shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) The ratio of the expected annual debt service requirements to the expected available annual grant amount, taking into consideration the obligations of the borrower under the provisions of section 203(b) of NAHASDA;

(2) Evidence that the borrower will not continue to receive grant assistance under this part during the proposed repayment period;

(3) The borrower's inability to furnish adequate security pursuant to section 602(a) of NAHASDA; and

(4) The amount of program income the proposed activities are reasonably estimated to contribute toward repayment of the guaranteed loan or other obligations.

(b) The loan or other obligation for which the guarantee is requested exceeds any of the limitations specified in sections 601(c) or section 605(d) of NAHASDA.

(c) Funds are not available in the amount requested.

(d) Evidence that the performance of the borrower under this part has been determined to be unacceptable pursuant to the requirements of subpart F of this part, and that the borrower has failed to take reasonable steps to correct performance.

(e) The activities to be undertaken are not eligible under either:

(1) Section 202 of NAHASDA; or

(2) Section 601(a) of NAHASDA.

(f) The loan or other obligation documents for which a guarantee is requested do not meet the requirements of this subpart.
