
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart F - Recipient Monitoring, Oversight and Accountability
###### ยง 1000.528 What are the procedures for the recipient to comment on the result of HUD's review when HUD issues a report under section 405(b) of NAHASDA?

HUD will issue a draft report to the recipient and Indian tribe within 60 days of the completion of HUD's review. The recipient will have at least 60 days to review and comment on the draft report, as well as provide any additional information relating to the draft report. Upon written notification to HUD, the recipient may exercise the right to take an additional 30 days to complete its review and comment to the draft report. Additional extensions of time for the recipient to complete review and comment may be mutually agreed upon in writing by HUD and the recipient. HUD shall consider the comments and any additional information provided by the recipient. HUD may also revise the draft report based on the comments and any additional information provided by the recipient. HUD shall make the recipient's comments and a final report readily available to the recipient, grant beneficiary, and the public not later than 30 days after receipt of the recipient's comments and additional information.
