
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Appendix B to Part 1000 - IHBG Block Grant Formula Mechanisms
###### i.e.

PDADJand CONTRIBas calculated in the initial phase down adjustment schedule may have to be adjusted downward in subsequent FYs if the total amount available for allocation under the needs Component (NEEDALLOCAMT in Step 4) is lower than the amount available for that purpose in the FY prior to the introduction of the new data source. If so, both PDADJand CONTRIBwill be reduced by a factor which is the ratio of NEEDALLOCAMT in current FY to NEEDALLOCAMT in the year prior to the introduction of the new data source.

Furthermore, when the 2020 Decennial Census or other new data source is introduced, a new phase down adjustment schedule will be calculated in a similar manner as that was calculated for FY 2018.

8. A tribe's preliminary total allocation is calculated by summing the amounts calculated under the FCAS and need components that will serve as the basis for further adjustments in accordance with ยง 1000.340.

GRANT1 is compared to how much a tribe received in FY 1996 for operating subsidy and modernization under the 1937 Housing Act. If a tribe received more in FY 1996 for operating subsidy and modernization than its IHBG formula allocation, its preliminary total allocation is adjusted up to the FY 1996 amount (See ยง 1000.340(b)). Indian tribes receiving more under the IHBG formula than in FY 1996 have their grant allocations adjusted downward to offset the upward adjustment for the other tribes.

9. The initial allocation amount for the current FY is calculated by adding any adjustments for over- or under-funding occurring in prior FYs to the allocation calculated in the previous step. These adjustments typically result from late reporting of FCAS changes, or conveyances.



So the UDFFadj = REPGRANTaftUDFF - GRANT2 and UDFFadjTOT= Absolute value of the sum of UDFF adjustments for tribes subject to reduction.

If UDFFtest is not equal to 1, tribes receive a portion of the funds recovered under the UDFF provision based on their share of total needs excluding any tribes with UDFFtest = 1. For these tribes, then:

11. A final adjustment is made under ยง 1000.329 which allocates available carryover amounts up to $3 million to achieve minimum total allocations. Tribes that certify in their Indian Housing Plans the presence of any eligible households at or below 80 percent of median income and whose total allocation determined in the preceding step is less than 0.011547 percent of the FY appropriation after set-asides, will have their allocation adjusted upwards to 0.011547 percent of the FY appropriation after set-asides, or to a lesser percentage which can be achieved for all eligible tribes with available carryover funds set-aside for this purpose.

If (GRANT2 + UDFFADJ) < MINGRANT and income-based need has been identified in a tribe's IHP, then tribe qualifies for MINGRANTADJ. For Tribes that qualify, calculate:

If the Sum for all tribes of MINGRANTADJTEST > MGHOLD, then:

12. A tribe's final allocation consists of the initial current FY formula allocation with three adjustments.
