
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1000 - NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ACTIVITIES
##### Appendix A to Part 1000 - Indian Housing Block Grant Formula Mechanics

This appendix shows the different components of the Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) formula. The following text explains how each component of the IHBG formula is calculated.

1. The first step in running the IHBG formula is to determine the amount available for allocation in the Fiscal Year (FY). It is the sum of:

(a) The FY appropriation for the IHBG program less amounts in the Appropriations Act mandated for purposes other than the formula allocation.

(b) The net amount, if any, made available as a result of corrections for over- or under-allocations in prior FYs.

(c) The amount, if any, made available pursuant to § 1000.536.

(d) The amounts, if any, made available because tribes voluntarily returned, or did not accept, the amounts allocated to them in prior FYs, defined as "carryover" (see § 1000.329).

2. If there is carryover as defined in § 1000.329, the amount of carryover up to $3 million, is then held aside for allocation under the minimum total grant provisions of the formula (see 11 below).

3. The IHBG formula first calculates the amount each tribe is allocated under the Formula Current Assisted Stock (FCAS) component (See §§ 1000.310 through 1000.322). The FCAS component is comprised of two parts, Operating Subsidy (§ 1000.316(a)) and Modernization (§ 1000.316(b)).

(a) The Operating Subsidy component is calculated in two steps, as follows:

(i) Each tribe's counts of Low Rent, Homeownership (Mutual Help and Turnkey III), and Section 8 units are multiplied by the National Per Unit Subsidy for operations for that category of unit, which is a 1996 index for the type of unit that is adjusted for inflation (see § 1000.302 defining National Per Unit Subsidy). The amounts are summed to create an initial calculation of the operating subsidy component.

(ii) The initial operating subsidy component amount is then adjusted for local area costs, using an adjustment factor called the AELFMR. The AELFMR factor is calculated for each tribe in three steps. First, an Allowable Expense Level (AEL) factor is calculated by dividing the tribe's AEL, a historic per-unit measure of operating cost, by the national weighted average AEL (see § 1000.302 defining Allowable Expense Level). Second, a Fair Market Rent (FMR) factor is calculated by dividing the tribe's FMR amount, an area-specific index published annually by HUD (see § 1000.302 Fair Market Rent factor), by the national weighted average FMR. Third, an AELFMR factor is created by assigning each tribe the greater of its AEL or FMR factor, and dividing that figure by the national weighted average AELFMR. In all cases, when the national average figure is calculated, tribes are weighted by the amount of their initial operating subsidy as calculated in 3(a)(i).

(See § 1000.320).

(b) The Modernization component is determined using two methods depending on the number of public housing units that a tribe's housing authority operated prior to the Native American Housing and Self-Determination Act.

(i) For all tribes, the number of Low Rent, Mutual Help, and Turnkey III units are multiplied by the National Per Unit Subsidy for modernization from 1996 adjusted for inflation (see § 1000.302 defining National Per Unit Subsidy).

(ii) For Indian tribes with an Indian Housing Authority (IHA) that owned or operated fewer than 250 units on October 1, 1997, an alternative modernization component is calculated from the amount of funds the IHA received under the assistance program authorized by Section 14 of the 1937 Act (not including funds provided as emergency assistance) for FYs 1992 through 1997 (see § 1000.316(b)(2)). If this alternative calculation is greater than the amount calculated in paragraph (a) above, it is used to calculate the tribe's modernization component.

(iii) The Modernization component is then multiplied by a local area cost adjustment factor based on the Total Development Cost (TDC) for the tribe (see § 1000.302) divided by the national weighted average of all TDCs weighted by each tribe's pre-adjustment Modernization calculation in paragraph (b)(i) or (ii) above as applicable.

4. The total amounts calculated under the FCAS component for each tribe are then added together to determine the national total amount allocated under the FCAS component. That total is subtracted from the funds available for allocation less the carryover amount held aside for allocation under the minimum total grant provision in § 1000.329. The remainder is the total amount available for allocation under the need component of the IHBG formula.

5. The first step in calculating need component is identifying weighted needs variables and adjusting for local area cost differences.

(a) Need is first calculated using seven factors, where each factor is a tribe's share of the national totals for each of seven variables. The data used for the seven variables is described in § 1000.330. The person count variable is adjusted for statistically significant undercounts for reservations, trust lands and remote Alaska and for growth in population since the latest Decennial Census. The Population Cap provision in § 1000.302 Formula Area (5) is then applied. Needs data are capped if the American Indian and Alaska Native (AIAN) population counts exceed twice tribal enrollment unless a tribe can demonstrate that it serves more than twice as many non-tribal members as tribal members, in which case the cap is adjusted upward.

The factors are weighted as set forth in § 1000.324, as follows:

(i) 22 percent of the amount available for allocation under the needs component are allocated by the share of the total AIAN households paying more than 50 percent of their income for housing and living in each tribe's Formula Area (see § 1000.302);

(ii) 25 percent are allocated by the share of the total AIAN households living in overcrowded housing and/or without kitchen or plumbing in each tribe's Formula Area;

(iii) 15 percent are allocated by the share of the total AIAN households with an annual income less than or equal to 80 percent of Formula Median Income (see § 1000.302) living in each tribe's Formula Area less the tribe's number of FCAS.

(iv) 13 percent are allocated by the share of AIAN households with annual income less than or equal to 30 percent of Formula Median Income living in each tribe's Formula Area;

(v) 7 percent are allocated by the share of AIAN households with annual income between 30 percent and 50 percent of Formula Median Income living in each tribe's Formula Area;

(vi) 7 percent are allocated by the share of AIAN households with annual income between 50 percent and 80 percent of Formula Median Income living in each tribe's Formula Area;

(vii) 11 percent are allocated by the share of AIAN persons living in each tribe's Formula Area.

(b) The result of these calculations for each tribe is then multiplied by a local area cost adjustment based on the Total Development Cost for the tribe (see § 1000.302) divided by the national weighted average of TDCs weighted by each tribe's pre-adjustment need calculation. (See § 1000.325).

6. Each tribe's initial need allocation amount is then adjusted under the minimum need allocation provision of § 1000.328. Tribes that are allocated less than $200,000 under the FCAS component of the IHBG formula and that certify the presence of any households at or below 80 percent of median income in their Indian Housing Plans will be allocated no less than a specified minimum under the needs component of the formula. The specified minimum amount shall equal 0.007826 percent of the appropriation for that FY after set-asides. The increase in funding for the tribes allocated the minimum need amount is funded by a reallocation from other tribes whose needs allocation exceeds the minimum need amount. This is necessary in order to keep the total allocation within the appropriation level (See § 1000.328).

7. Whenever a new Data Source is first introduced, provision is made to moderate extreme impacts through phase down adjustments. For purposes of these adjustments, new data sources (see § 1000.331) include the initial introduction of the American Community Survey and 2010 Decennial Census in 2018, and the initial introduction of the 2020 Decennial Census when it becomes available. Tribes whose allocation under the need component decrease by more than ten percent in the first year of introduction will have that decrease moderated by subsequent adjustments, as required to prevent a drop of more than ten percent per year in the tribes' needs allocation attributable solely to the introduction of the New Data Source. After allocation adjustments are made under § 1000.331 for a FY, the needs allocation of an Indian tribe whose needs allocation increased as a result of the introduction of a New Data Source under § 1000.331 shall be adjusted downward proportionate to its share of the total increase in funding resulting from the introduction of a New Data Source to keep the overall needs allocation within available appropriations.

8. A tribe's preliminary total allocation for a grant is calculated by summing the amounts calculated under the FCAS and need components. This amount is compared to how much a tribe received in FY 1996 for operating subsidy and modernization under the 1937 Housing Act. If a tribe received more in FY 1996 for operating subsidy and modernization than it does under the IHBG formula allocation, its preliminary total allocation is adjusted up to the FY 1996 amount (See § 1000.340(b)). Indian tribes receiving more under the IHBG formula than in FY 1996 have their grant allocations adjusted downward to offset the upward adjustments for the other tribes.

9. The initial allocation amount for the current FY is calculated by adding any adjustments for over- or under-funding occurring in prior FYs to the allocation calculated in the previous step. These adjustments typically result from late reporting of FCAS changes, or conveyances which occur in a timely manner following the removal of units from eligibility due to conveyance eligibility.

10. The Undisbursed Funds Factor component is calculated based on the initial allocation amounts calculated above. Tribes with an initial allocation of $5 million or more and undisbursed IHBG grant amounts (the amount available to the tribe in HUD's line of credit control on October 1 of the FY for which the allocation is being made) in an amount greater than the sum of the prior 3 years' initial allocation calculations will have their initial allocation amount adjusted down by the difference between the tribe's undisbursed grant amounts and the sum of its prior 3 years' initial allocation calculations. If this adjustment would bring the tribe below its FY 1996 minimum (see § 1000.340(b)), then the tribe will be allocated its FY 1996 minimum. The sum of the adjustments will be reallocated among the other tribes proportionally under the need component.

11. A final adjustment is made under § 1000.329 which allocates available carryover amounts up to $3 million to achieve minimum total allocations. Tribes that certify in their Indian Housing Plans the presence of any eligible households at or below 80 percent of median income and whose current FY formula allocation after the Undisbursed Funds Factor adjustment determined in the preceding step is less than 0.011547 percent of the FY appropriation after set-asides, will have their allocation adjusted upwards to 0.011547 percent of the FY appropriation after set-asides, or to a lesser percentage which can be achieved for all eligible tribes with available carryover held for this adjustment (see 2 above).
