
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart C - Eligible Activities
###### ยง 1003.208 Criteria for compliance with the primary objective.
####### Housing activities.

(c)An eligible activity carried out for the purpose of providing or improving permanent residential structures which, upon completion, will be occupied by low and moderate income households. This would include, but not necessarily be limited to, the acquisition or rehabilitation of property, conversion of non-residential structures, and new housing construction. Funds expended for activities which qualify under the provisions of this paragraph shall be counted as benefiting low and moderate income persons but shall be limited to an amount determined by multiplying the total cost (including ICDBG and non-ICDBG costs) of the acquisition, construction or rehabilitation by the percent of units in such housing to be occupied by low and moderate income persons. If the structure assisted contains two dwelling units, at least one must be occupied by low and moderate income households, and if the structure contains more than two dwelling units, at least 51 percent of the units must be so occupied. Where two or more rental buildings being assisted are or will be located on the same or contiguous properties, and the buildings will be under common ownership and management, the grouped buildings may be considered for this purpose as a single structure. For rental housing, occupancy by low and moderate income households must be at affordable rents to qualify under this criterion. The grantee shall adopt and make public its standards for determining "affordable rents" for this purpose. The following shall also qualify under this criterion:

(1) When less than 51 percent of the units in a structure will be occupied by low and moderate income households, ICDBG assistance may be provided in the following limited circumstances:

(i) The assistance is for an eligible activity to reduce the development cost of the new construction of a multifamily, non-elderly rental housing project;

(ii) Not less than 20 percent of the units will be occupied by low and moderate income households at affordable rents; and

(iii) The proportion of the total cost of developing the project to be borne by ICDBG funds is no greater than the proportion of units in the project that will be occupied by low and moderate income households.

(2) When ICDBG funds are used for housing services eligible under ยง 1003.201(j), such funds shall be considered to benefit low-and moderate-income persons if the housing for which the services are provided is to be occupied by low-and moderate-income households.
