
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart C - Eligible Activities
###### § 1003.208 Criteria for compliance with the primary objective.
####### Additional criteria.

(e)(1) Where the assisted activity is acquisition of real property, a preliminary determination of whether the activity addresses the primary objective may be based on the planned use of the property after acquisition. A final determination shall be based on the actual use of the property, excluding any short-term, temporary use.

(2) Where the assisted activity is relocation assistance that the grantee is required to provide, such relocation assistance shall be considered to address the primary objective as addressed by the displacing activity.

(3) In any case where the activity undertaken for the purpose of creating or retaining jobs is a public improvement and the area served is primarily residential, the activity must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as well as those of paragraph (d) of this section in order to qualify as benefiting low and moderate income persons.

(4) Expenditures for activities meeting the criteria for benefiting low and moderate income persons shall be used in determining the extent to which the grantee's overall program benefits such persons. In determining the percentage of funds expended for such activities:

(i) Costs of administration and planning, eligible under § 1003.205 and § 1003.206 respectively, will be assumed to benefit low and moderate income persons in the same proportion as the remainder of the ICDBG funds and, accordingly, shall be excluded from the calculation.

(ii) Funds expended for the acquisition, new construction or rehabilitation of property for housing those qualified under § 1003.208(c) shall be counted for this purpose, but shall be limited to an amount determined by multiplying the total cost (including ICDBG and non-ICDBG costs) of the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation by the percent of units in such housing occupied by low and moderate income persons.

(iii) Funds expended for any other activity which qualifies under § 1003.208 shall be counted for this purpose in their entirety.
