
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### § 1003.501 Applicability of uniform administrative requirements and cost principles.

(a) Grantees and subrecipients shall comply with the requirements and standards of 2 CFR part 200, except for the following sections:

(1) Paragraph (a) of § 200.302, "Financial management."

(2) Section 200.306, "Cost sharing or matching."

(3) Section 200.307, "Program income" applies as modified by § 1003.503.

(4) Section 200.308, "Revisions of budget and program plans."

(5) Section 200.311, "Real property," except as provided in § 1003.600.

(6) Section 200.313, "Equipment" applies, except that in all cases in which the equipment is sold, the proceeds shall be program income.

(7) Section 200.314, "Supplies," applies, except in all cases in which the supplies are sold, the proceeds shall be program income.

(8) Section 200.325, "Bonding requirements" applies. However, there may be circumstances under which the bonding requirements of 2 CFR 200.325 are inconsistent with other responsibilities and obligations of the grantee. In such circumstances, acceptable methods to provide performance and payment assurance may include:

(i) Deposit with the grantee of a cash escrow of not less than 20 percent of the total contract price, subject to reduction during the warranty period, commensurate with potential risk; or

(ii) Letter of credit for 25 percent of the total contract price, unconditionally payable upon demand of the grantee, subject to reduction during the warranty period commensurate with potential risk.

(9) Paragraphs (b) through (d) and (f) of § 200.328, "Monitoring and reporting program performance."

(10) Section 200.333, "Retention requirements for records" applies. However, the retention period referenced in 2 CFR 200.333 pertaining to individual ICDBG activities starts from the date of the submission of the final status and evaluation report as prescribed in § 1003.506(a) in which the specific activity is reported.

(11) Section 200.343, "Closeout."
