
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### ยง 1003.508 Grant closeout procedures.
####### Closeout actions.

(b)(1) Within 90 days of the date it is determined that the criteria for closeout have been met, the grantee shall submit to the Area ONAP a copy of the final status and evaluation report described in ยง 1003.506(a) and a completed Financial Status Report (SF-269). If acceptable reports are not submitted, an audit of the grantee's program activities may be conducted by HUD.

(2) Based on the information provided in the status report and other relevant information, the grantee, in consultation with the Area ONAP, will prepare a closeout agreement in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) The Area ONAP will cancel any unused portion of the awarded grant, as shown in the signed grant closeout agreement. Any unused grant funds disbursed from the U.S. Treasury which are in the possession of the grantee shall be refunded to HUD.

(4) Any costs paid with ICDBG funds which were not audited previously shall be subject to coverage in the grantee's next single audit performed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. The grantee may be required to repay HUD any disallowed costs based on the results of the audit, or on additional HUD reviews provided for in the closeout agreement.
