
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart F - Grant Administration
###### ยง 1003.510 Indian preference requirements.
####### Complaint procedures.

(e)The following complaint procedures are applicable to complaints arising out of any of the methods of providing for Indian preference contained in this part, including alternate methods enacted and approved in a manner described in this section:

(1) Each complaint shall be in writing, signed, and filed with the grantee.

(2) A complaint must be filed with the grantee no later than 20 calendar days from the date of the action (or omission) upon which the complaint is based.

(3) Upon receipt of a complaint, the grantee shall promptly stamp the date and time of receipt upon the complaint, and immediately acknowledge its receipt.

(4) Within 20 calendar days of receipt of a complaint, the grantee shall either meet, or communicate by mail or telephone, with the complainant in an effort to resolve the matter. The grantee shall make a determination on a complaint and notify the complainant, in writing, within 30 calendar days of the submittal of the complaint to the grantee. The decision of the grantee shall constitute final administrative action on the complaint.
