
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart G - Other Program Requirements
###### ยง 1003.602 Relocation and real property acquisition.
####### Real Property acquisition requirements.

(e)The acquisition of real property for an assisted activity is subject to 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. Whenever the grantee does not have the authority to acquire the real property through condemnation, it shall:

(1) Before discussing the purchase price, inform the owner:

(i) Of the amount it believes to be the fair market value of the property. Such amount shall be based upon one or more appraisals prepared by a qualified appraiser. However, this provision does not prevent the grantee from accepting a donation or purchasing the real property at less than its fair market value.

(ii) That it will be unable to acquire the property if negotiations fail to result in an amicable agreement.

(2) Request HUD approval of the proposed acquisition price before executing a firm commitment to purchase the property. The grantee shall include with its request a copy of the appraisal(s) and, when applicable, a justification for any proposed acquisition payment that exceeds the fair market value of the property. HUD will promptly review the proposal and inform the grantee of its approval or disapproval.
