
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 1003 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FOR INDIAN TRIBES AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES
##### Subpart G - Other Program Requirements
###### ยง 1003.604 Citizen participation.

(a) In order to permit residents of Indian tribes and Alaska native villages to examine and appraise the applicant's application for funds under this part, the applicant shall follow traditional means of resident involvement which, at the least, include the following:

(1) Furnishing residents with information concerning the amounts of funds available for proposed community development and housing activities and the range of activities that may be undertaken.

(2) Holding one or more meetings to obtain the views of residents on community development and housing needs. Meetings shall be scheduled in ways and at times that will allow participation by residents.

(3) Developing and publishing or posting a community development statement in such a manner as to afford affected residents an opportunity to examine its contents and to submit comments.

(4) Affording residents an opportunity to review and comment on the applicant's performance under any active community development block grant.

(b) Prior to submission of the application to HUD, the applicant shall certify by an official Tribal resolution that it has met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; and

(1) Considered any comments and views expressed by residents and, if it deems it appropriate, modified the application accordingly; and

(2) Made the modified application available to residents.

(c) No part of the requirement under paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to restrict the responsibility and authority of the applicant for the development of the application and the execution of the grant. Accordingly, the citizen participation requirements of this section do not include concurrence by any person or group in making final determinations on the contents of the application.
