
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 27 - NONJUDICIAL FORECLOSURE OF MULTIFAMILY AND SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES
#### Subpart A - Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Multifamily Mortgages
##### ยง 27.10 Designation of a foreclosure commissioner.

(a) When the Secretary determines that a multifamily mortgage should be foreclosed under the Act and this subpart, the General Counsel will select and designate one or more foreclosure commissioners to conduct the foreclosure and sale. The method of selection and determination of the qualifications of the foreclosure commissioner shall be at the discretion of the General Counsel, and the execution of a designation pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be conclusive evidence that the commissioner selected has been determined to be qualified by the General Counsel.

(b) After selection of a foreclosure commissioner, the General Counsel shall designate the commissioner in writing to conduct the foreclosure and sale of the particular multifamily mortgage. The written designation shall be duly acknowledged and shall state the name and business or residential address of the commissioner and any other information the General Counsel deems necessary. The designation shall be effective upon execution by the General Counsel or his designate. Upon receipt of the designation, the commissioner shall demonstrate acceptance by signing the designation and returning a signed copy to the General Counsel.

(c) The General Counsel may at any time, with or without cause, designate a substitute commissioner to replace a previously designated commissioner. Designation of a substitute commissioner shall be in writing and shall contain the same information and be made effective in the same manner as the designation of the original commissioner. Upon designation of a substitute commissioner, the substitute commissioner shall serve a copy of the written notice of designation upon the persons listed at sections 369(1) (A) through (C) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3708(1) (A) through (C)) either by mail, in accordance with section 369(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3708(1)), except that the time limitations in that section will not apply, or by any other manner which in the substitute commissioner's discretion is conducive to giving timely notice of substitution.
