
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 27 - NONJUDICIAL FORECLOSURE OF MULTIFAMILY AND SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES
#### Subpart A - Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Multifamily Mortgages
##### ยง 27.15 Notice of default and foreclosure sale.

(a) Within 45 days after accepting his or her designation to act as commissioner, the commissioner shall commence the foreclosure by serving a Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale.

(b) The Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale shall contain the following information:

(1) The Notice shall state that all deposits and the balance of the purchase price shall be paid by certified or cashier's check. The Notice shall state that no deposit will be required of the Secretary when the Secretary bids at the foreclosure sale.

(2) Any terms and conditions to which the purchaser at the foreclosure sale must agree under ยง 27.20. The Notice need not describe at length each and every pertinent term and condition, including any required use agreements and deed covenants, if it describes these terms and conditions in a general way and if it states that the precise terms will be available from the commissioner upon request.

(c) The Notice need not be mailed to mortgagors who have been released from all obligations under the mortgage.

(d) In deciding which newspaper or newspapers to select as general circulation newspapers for purposes of publication of the required notice, the commissioner need not select the newspaper with the largest circulation.

(e) In addition to Notice posting requirements included in the Act, the Notice shall also be posted in the project office and in such other appropriate conspicuous places as the commissioner deems appropriate for providing notice to all tenants. Posting shall not be required if the commissioner in his or her discretion finds that the act of posting is likely to lead to a breach of the peace or may result in the increased risk of vandalism or damage to the property. Any such finding will be made in writing. Entry on the premises by the commissioner for the purpose of posting shall be privileged as against all other persons.

(f) When service of the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale is made by mail, the commissioner shall at the same time and in the same manner serve a copy of the instrument by which the General Counsel, under ยง 27.10(b), has designated him or her to act as commissioner.

(g) At least 7 days before the foreclosure sale, the commissioner will record both the instrument designating him or her to act as commissioner and the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale in the same office or offices in which the mortgage was recorded.
