
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 27 - NONJUDICIAL FORECLOSURE OF MULTIFAMILY AND SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES
#### Subpart A - Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Multifamily Mortgages
##### ยง 27.30 Conduct of the sale.

(a) The commissioner shall accept written one-price sealed bids from any party including the Secretary so long as those bids conform to the requirements described in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale. The commissioner shall announce the name of each such bidder and the amount of the bid. The commissioner shall accept oral bids from any party, including parties who submitted one-price sealed bids, if those oral bids conform to the requirements described in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale. The commissioner will announce the amount of the high bid and the name of the successful bidder before the close of the sale.

(b) Relatives of the commissioner who may not bid at the foreclosure sale include parents, siblings, spouses and children. Related business entities which may not bid include entities or concerns whose relationship with the commissioner at the time the commissioner is designated is such that, directly or indirectly, one concern or individual formulates, directs, or controls the other concern; or has the power to formulate, direct, or control the other concern; or has the responsibility and authority either to prevent in the first instance, or promptly to correct, the offensive conduct of the other concern. Business concerns are also affiliates of each other when a third party is similarly situated with respect to both concerns.

(c) If the commissioner employs an auctioneer to conduct the foreclosure sale, the auctioneer must be a licensed auctioneer, an officer of State or local government, or any other person who commonly conducts foreclosure sales in the area in which the security property is located.
