
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XII - Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 2002 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
##### ยง 2002.7 OIG processing of requests, multi-tracking, and expedited processing.
###### Expedited processing.

(c)(1) The OIG may take your request or appeal out of normal order if the OIG determines that you have a compelling need for the records or in other cases as determined by the OIG. Any requester may ask for expedited processing at any time. If expedited processing is requested, the OIG will notify the requester within 10 working days whether it will grant expedited processing.

(2) The OIG will grant requests for expedited processing if it finds a compelling need under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E). Evidence of a compelling need by a person making a request for expedited processing must be made in a statement certified by such person to be true and correct to the best of such person's knowledge and belief. A compelling need exists if:

(i) Your failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;

(ii) You are primarily engaged in disseminating information and there is an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity; or

(iii) Your failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could result in the loss of substantial due process rights.

(3) If the OIG grants the request for expedited processing, the OIG will give the request priority and will process it as soon as practicable.
