
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 27 - NONJUDICIAL FORECLOSURE OF MULTIFAMILY AND SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES
#### Subpart B - Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Single Family Mortgages
##### ยง 27.111 Adjournment or cancellation of sale.

(a) The foreclosure commissioner may, before or at the time of the foreclosure sale, adjourn or cancel the foreclosure sale in accordance with the provisions of the Statute. The publication of the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale, revised pursuant to the Statute, may be made on any of three separate days before the revised date of foreclosure sale. If there is no newspaper of general circulation that would permit publication on any of three separate days before the revised date of foreclosure sale, the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale must be posted, not less than nine days before the date to which the sale has been adjourned, at the courthouse of any county or counties in which the property is located, and at the place where the sale is to be held. The commissioner must also, in the case of a sale adjourned to a later date, mail a copy of the revised Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale to the Secretary at least seven days before the date to which the sale has been adjourned.

(b) When a substitute commissioner is designated by the Secretary to replace a previously designated foreclosure commissioner, the sale shall continue without prejudice unless the substitute commissioner finds, in that commissioner's sole discretion, that continuation of the foreclosure sale will unfairly affect the interests of the mortgagor. Any such finding shall be in writing. If the substitute commissioner makes such a finding, the substitute commissioner shall cancel or adjourn the sale.
