
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 3280.5 Data plate.

Each manufactured home shall bear a data plate affixed in a permanent manner near the main electrical panel or other readily accessible and visible location. Each data plate shall be made of material what will receive typed information as well as preprinted information, and which can be cleaned of ordinary smudges or household dirt without removing information contained on the data plate; or the data plate shall be covered in a permanent manner with materials that will make it possible to clean the data plate of ordinary dirt and smudges without obscuring the information. Each data plate shall contain not less than the following information:

(a) The name and address of the manufacturing plant in which the manufactured home was manufactured.

(b) The serial number and model designation of the unit, and the date the unit was manufactured.

(c) The applicable statement:

(d) The applicable statement:

This manufactured home IS designed to accommodate the additional loads imposed by the attachment of an attached accessory building or structure in accordance with the manufacturer installation instructions. The additional loads are in accordance with the design load(s) identified on this Data Plate; or

This manufactured home IS NOT designed to accommodate the additional loads imposed by the attachment of an attached accessory building or structure in accordance with the manufacturer installation instructions.

(e) A list of the certification label(s) number(s) that are affixed to each transportable manufactured section under § 3280.8.

(f) A list of major factory-installed equipment, including the manufacturer's name and the model designation of each appliance.

(g) Reference to the roof load zone and wind load zone for which the home is designed and duplicates of the maps as set forth in § 3280.305(c). This information may be combined with the heating/cooling certificate and insulation zone map required by §§ 3280.510 and 3280.511. The Wind Zone Map on the Data Plate shall also contain the statement:

(h) The statement:

(i) The statement: "Design Approval by", followed by the name of the agency that approved the design.

(j) The statement: The manufacturer certifies this home is compliant with the Title VI, Toxic Substances Control Act.
