
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3280.11 Certification label.

(a) A permanent label shall be affixed to each transportable section of each manufactured home for sale or lease in the United States. This label shall be separate and distinct from the data plate which the manufacturer is required to provide under ยง 3280.5 of the standards.

(b) The label shall be approximately 2 in. by 4 in. in size and shall be permanently attached to the manufactured home by means of 4 blind rivets, drive screws, or other means that render it difficult to remove without defacing it. It shall be etched on 0.32 in. thick aluminum plate. The label number shall be etched or stamped with a 3 letter designation which identifies the production inspection primary inspection agency and which the Secretary shall assign. Each label shall be marked with a 6 digit number which the label supplier shall furnish. The labels shall be stamped with numbers sequentially.

(c) The label shall read as follows:

(d) The label must be located at the taillight end of each transportable section of the manufactured home approximately 1 foot up from the floor and 1 foot in from the road side, or as near that location on a permanent part of the exterior of the manufactured home section as practicable. The road side is the right side of the manufactured home when one views the manufactured home from the tow bar end of the manufactured home. If locating the label on the taillight end of a transportable section will prevent the label from being visible after the manufactured home section is installed at the installation site, the label must be installed on a permanent part of the exterior of the manufactured home section, in a visible location as specified in the approved design.
