
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 28 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986
#### ยง 28.10 Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
##### Claims.

(a)(1) A civil penalty of not more than $13,508 may be imposed upon any person who makes, presents, or submits, or causes to be made, presented, or submitted, a claim that the person knows or has reason to know:

(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;

(ii) Includes or is supported by a written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;

(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that:

(A) Omits a material fact;

(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of the omission; and

(C) Is a statement in which the person making, presenting, or submitting such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or

(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed.

(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.

(3) A claim shall be considered made to HUD, to a recipient, or to a party when the claim actually is made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision of a State, acting for or on behalf of HUD, the recipient, or the party.

(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty without regard to whether the property, services, or money actually is delivered or paid.

(5) Liability under this part shall not lie if the amount of money or value of property or services claimed exceeds $150,000 as to each claim that a person submits. For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a group of claims submitted simultaneously as part of a single transaction shall be considered a single claim.

(6) If the Government has made any payment, transferred property, or provided services on a claim, then the Government may assess a person found liable up to twice the amount of the claim or portion of the claim that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
