
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Body and Frame Construction Requirements
###### § 3280.305 Structural design requirements.
####### Roofs.

(h)(1) Roofs shall be of sufficient strength to withstand the load requirements as defined in § 3280.305 (b) and (c) without exceeding the deflections specified in § 3280.305(d). The connections between roof framework members and bearing walls shall be fabricated in such a manner to provide for the transfer of design vertical and horizontal loads to the bearing walls and to resist uplift forces.

(2) Roofing membranes shall be of sufficient rigidity to prevent deflection which would permit ponding of water or separation of seams due to wind, snow, ice, erection or transportation forces.

(3) Cutting of roof framework members for passage of electrical, plumbing or mechanical systems shall not be allowed except where substantiated by engineering analysis.

(4) All roof penetrations for electrical, plumbing or mechanical systems shall be properly flashed and sealed. In addition, where a metal roof membrane is penetrated, a wood backer shall be installed. The backer plate shall be not less thaninch plywood, with exterior glues, secured to the roof framing system beneath the metal roof, and shall be of a size to assure that all screws securing the flashing are held by the backer plate.

(5) Portions of roof assemblies, including, but not limited to, dormers, gables, crickets, hinged roof sections, sheathing, roof coverings, underlayments, flashings, and eaves and overhangs are permitted to be assembled and installed on site in accordance with 24 CFR part 3282, subpart M, provided that the requirements in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section are met.

(i) Approved installation instructions must be provided that include requirements for the following items:

(A) Materials, installation, and structural connections complying with this section;

(B) Installation and fastening of sheathing and roof coverings;

(C) Installation of appliance vent systems in accordance with § 3280.710;

(D) Installation of plumbing vents as required by § 3280.611; and

(E) Installation of attic ventilation in accordance with § 3280.504(c).

(ii) The installation instructions specified in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section must include drawings, details, and instructions as necessary to assure that the on-site work complies with the approved design.

(iii) The installation instructions specified in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section must provide for inspection of the work at the installation site. As necessary to ensure conformance, inspection panels may be required, or inspections may need to occur in stages that assure inspections are performed before any work is concealed. Such inspection procedures shall be addressed in the approved installation instructions.

(iv) Temporary weather protection must be provided per § 3280.307(e).
