
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Testing
###### ยง 3280.402 Test procedures for roof trusses.
####### Follow-up testing.

(e)Follow-up testing procedures must include the following:

(1) All trusses qualifying under these test procedures must be subject to a quality control and follow-up testing program.

(i) Manufacturers of listed or labeled trusses must follow an in-house quality control program with follow-up testing approved by a nationally recognized testing program as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The in-house quality control program must include, at a minimum, procedures for quality of materials including, but not limited to, grade(s) of materials, allowable splits, knots, and other applicable lumber qualities; workmanship including, but not limited to, plate placement and embedment tolerances; other manufacturing tolerances; description and calibration of test equipment; truss retesting criteria; and procedures in the event of noncomplying results.

(ii) Those home manufacturers producing trusses for their own use, and which are not listed or labeled, must have an in-house quality control program (see paragraph (i) of this section) that includes follow-up testing, as specified in this section, and is approved by their Design Approval Primary Inspection Agency (DAPIA).

(2) Truss designs that are qualified but not in production are not subject to follow-up testing until produced. When the truss design is brought into production, a follow-up test is to be performed if the truss design has been out of production for more than 6 months.

(3) The frequency of truss manufacturer's quality control follow-up testing for trusses must be at least:

(i) One test for the first 100 trusses produced, with a subsequent test for every 2,500 trusses for trusses qualified under the proof load truss test procedure or inverted uplift test procedure for trusses used in Wind Zones II and III or once every 6 months, whichever is more frequent, for every truss design produced; or

(ii) One test for every 4,000 trusses produced for trusses qualified under the ultimate load truss test procedure or upright uplift test procedure for trusses used in Wind Zones II and III or once every 6 months, whichever is more frequent, for every truss design produced.

(4) For follow-up testing only, the full dead load may be applied to the top chord of the truss, when the bottom chord dead load is 5 psf or less.
