
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Testing
###### ยง 3280.403 Requirements for windows, sliding glass doors, and skylights.
####### Certification.

(e)All primary windows and sliding glass doors to be installed in manufactured homes must be certified as complying with AAMA 1701.2-95. This certification must be based on tests conducted at the design wind loads specified in ยง 3280.305(c)(1).

(1) All such windows and doors must show evidence of certification by affixing a quality certification label to the product in accordance with ANSI Z34.1-1993, Third-Party Certification Programs for Products, Processes, and Services.

(2) In determining certifiability of the products, an independent quality assurance agency shall conduct pre-production specimen tests in accordance with AAMA 1701.2-95. Further, such agency must inspect the product manufacturer's facility at least twice per year.

(3) All skylights installed in manufactured homes must be certified as complying with AAMA/WDMA/CSA 101/I.S.2/A440-08: North American Fenestration Standard/Specifications for Windows, Doors, and Skylights (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4). This certification must be based on applicable loads specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
