
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart F - Thermal Protection
###### ยง 3280.508 Heat loss, heat gain and cooling load calculations.

(a) Information, values and data necessary for heat loss and heat gain determinations must be taken from the 1997 ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, Inch-Pound Edition, chapters 22 through 27. The following portions of those chapters are not applicable:

(b) The calculation of the manufactured home's transmission heat loss coefficient (Uo) must be in accordance with the fundamental principles of the 1997 ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, Inch-Pound Edition, and, at a minimum, must address all the heat loss or heat gain considerations in a manner consistent with the calculation procedures provided in the document, Overall U-values and Heating/Cooling Loads-Manufactured Homes-February 1992-PNL 8006, HUD User No. 0005945.

(c) Areas where the insulation does not fully cover a surface or is compressed shall be accounted for in the U-calculation (see ยง 3280.506). The effect of framing on the U-value must be included in the Uo calculation. Other low-R-value heat-flow paths ("thermal shorts") shall be explicitly accounted for in the calculation of the transmission heat loss coefficient if in the aggregate all types of low-R-value paths amount to more than 1% of the total exterior surface area. Areas are considered low-R-value heat-flow paths if:

(1) They separate conditioned and unconditioned space; and

(2) They are not insulated to a level that is at least one-half the nominal insulation level of the surrounding building component.
