
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Plumbing Systems
###### ยง 3280.603 General requirements.
####### Prohibited fittings and practices.

(6)(i) Drainage or vent piping shall not be drilled and tapped for the purpose of making connections.

(ii) Except as specifically provided elsewhere in this standard, vent pipes shall not be used as waste or drain pipes.

(iii) Fittings, connections, devices, or methods of installation that obstruct or retard the flow of sewage, or air in the drainage or venting systems in an amount greater than the normal frictional resistance to flow shall not be used unless their use is acceptable in this standard or their use is accepted as having a desirable and acceptable function of ultimate benefit to the proper and continued functioning of the plumbing system.

(iv) Cracks, holes, or other imperfections in materials shall not be concealed by welding, brazing, or soldering or by paint, wax, tar, or other leak-sealing or repairing agents.

(v) Piping, fixtures or equipment shall be located so as not to interfere with the normal use or with the normal operation and use of windows, doors or other required facilities.

(vi) Galvanized pipe shall not be bent or welded.
