
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Plumbing Systems
###### ยง 3280.607 Plumbing fixtures.
####### Shower compartment.

(3)(i) Each compartment stall shall be provided with an approved watertight receptor with sides and back extending at least 1 inch above the finished dam or threshold. In no case shall the depth of a shower receptor be less than 2 inches or more than 9 inches measured from the top of the finished dam or threshold to the top of the drain. The wall area shall be constructed of smooth, noncorrosive, and nonabsorbent waterproof materials to a height not less than 6 feet above the bathroom floor level. Such walls shall form a watertight joint with each other and with the bathtub, receptor or shower floor. The floor of the compartment shall slope uniformly to the drain at not less than one-fourth nor more than one-half inch per foot.

(ii) The joint around the drain connection shall be made watertight by a flange, clamping ring, or other approved listed means.

(iii) Shower doors and tub and shower enclosures shall be constructed so as to be waterproof and, if glazed, glazing shall comply with the Standard for Safety Glazing Materials used in Buildings-Safety Performance Specifications and Methods of Test, ANSI Z97.1-2004 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4).

(iv) Prefabricated plumbing fixtures shall be approved or listed.

(v) Shower and tub-shower combination valves must be balanced pressure, thermostatic, or combination mixing valves that conform to the requirements of ASSE 1016-2005, Performance Requirements for Automatic Compensating Valves for Individual Shower and Tub/Shower Combinations (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4). Such valves must be equipped with handle position stops that are adjustable in accordance with the valve manufacturer's instructions and to a maximum setting of 120 &#xB0;F. Hot water supplied to bathtubs and whirlpool bathtubs are to be limited to a temperature of not greater than 120 &#xB0;F by a water temperature limiting device that conforms to the requirements of ASSE 1070-2004, Performance Requirements for Water Temperature Limiting Devices (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4).
