
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Plumbing Systems
###### ยง 3280.611 Vents and venting.
####### Mechanical Vents.

(d)Where mechanical vents are used as a secondary vent system for plumbing fixtures that are protected by traps, the mechanical vents must comply with paragraphs (d)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Spring-operated mechanical (anti-siphon) vents must comply with the following:

(i) No more than two fixtures individually protected by the spring-operated mechanical vent may be drained by a common 1inch diameter drain.

(ii) The drain size for three or more fixtures individually protected by a spring-operated mechanical vent must be at least 2 inches in diameter.

(iii) Spring-operated mechanical vents are restricted to venting fixtures with 1inch traps.

(iv) A spring-operated mechanical vent must be installed in a location that allows a free flow of air and is accessible for inspection, maintenance, and replacement. The sealing function must be at least 6 inches above the top of the trap arm.

(v) Materials for the spring-operated mechanical vents must be as follows:

(A) Cap and housing must be listed acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, DWV grade;

(B) Stem must be DWV grade nylon or acetal;

(C) Spring must be stainless steel wire, Type 302; and

(D) Sealing disc must be either:
