
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.705 Gas piping systems.
####### Piping design.

(c)Each manufactured home requiring fuel gas for any purpose shall be equipped with a natural gas piping system acceptable for LP-gas. Where fuel gas piping is to be installed in more than one section of an expandable or multiple unit home, the design and construction of the crossover(s) shall be as follows:

(1) All points of crossover beneath the transportable sections must be readily accessible from the exterior of the home. In multi-story manufactured homes, the interconnections between stories must be accessible through a panel on the exterior or interior of the manufactured home.

(2) The connection(s) between units must be made with a connector(s) listed for exterior use or direct plumbing sized in accordance with ยง 3280.705(d). A shutoff valve of the non-displaceable rotor type conforming to ANSI Z21.15-1997, Manually Operated Gas Valves for Appliances, Appliances Connector Valves, and Hose End Valves, suitable for outdoor use must be installed at each crossover point upstream of the connection.

(3) The connection(s) may be made by a listed quick disconnect device which shall be designed to provide a positive seal of the supply side of the gas system when such device is separated.

(4) The flexible connector, direct plumbing pipe, or "quick disconnect" device shall be provided with protection from mechanical and impact damage and located to minimize the possibility of tampering.

(5) For gas line cross over connections made with either hard pipe or flexible connectors, the crossover point(s) shall be capped on the supply side to provide a positive seal and covered on the other side with a suitable protective covering.

(6) Suitable protective coverings for the connection device(s) when separated, shall be permanently attached to the device or flexible connector.

(7) When a quick disconnect device is installed, a 3 inch by 1inch minimum size tag made of etched, metal-stamped or embossed brass, stainless steel, anodized or alcalde aluminum not less than 0.020 inch thick or other approved material (e.g., 0.005 inch plastic laminates) shall be permanently attached on the exterior wall adjacent to the access to the "quick disconnect" device. Each tag shall be legibly inscribed with the following information using letters no smaller thaninch high:
