
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.705 Gas piping systems.
####### Materials.

(b)All materials used for the installation, extension, alteration, or repair of any gas piping system shall be new and free from defects or internal obstructions. It shall not be permissible to repair defects in gas piping or fittings. Inferior or defective materials shall be removed and replaced with acceptable material. The system shall be made of materials having a melting point of not less than 1,450 F, except as provided in ยง 3280.705(e). They shall consist of one or more of the materials described in ยง 3280.705(b) (1) through (4).

(1) Steel or wrought-iron pipe shall comply with ANSI Standard B36.10-1979, Welded and Seamless Wrought Steel Pipe. Threaded brass pipe in iron pipe sizes may be used. Threaded brass pipe shall comply with ASTM B43-91, Standard Specification for Seamless Red Brass Pipe, Standard Sizes.

(2) Fittings for gas piping shall be wrought iron, malleable iron, steel, or brass (containing not more than 75 percent copper).

(3) Copper tubing must be annealed type, Grade K or L, conforming to the Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube, ASTM B88-93, or must comply with the Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Tube for Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Service, ASTM B280-1995. Copper tubing must be internally tinned.

(4) Steel tubing must have a minimum wall thickness of 0.032 inch for tubing ofinch diameter and smaller and 0.049 inch for diametersinch and larger. Steel tubing must be in accordance with ASTM Standard Specification for Electric-Resistance-Welded Coiled Steel Tubing for Gas and Fuel Oil Lines, ASTM A539-1999, and must be externally corrosion protected.

(5) Corrugated stainless steel tubing (CSST) systems must be listed and installed in accordance with ANSI/IAS LC-1-1997, Fuel Gas Piping Systems Using Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing (CSST) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4), and the requirements of this section.
