
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.705 Gas piping systems.
####### Appliance connections.

(2)All gas burning appliances shall be connected to the fuel piping. Materials as provided in ยง 3280.705(b) or listed appliance connectors shall be used. Listed appliance connectors when used shall not run through walls, floors, ceilings or partitions, except for cabinetry, and shall be 3 feet or less in length or 6 feet or less for cooking appliances. Connectors of aluminum shall not be used outdoors. A manufactured home containing a combination LP-natural-gas-system may be provided with a gas outlet to supply exterior appliances when installed in accordance with the following:

(i) No portion of the completed installation shall project beyond the wall of the manufactured home.

(ii) The outlet must be provided with an approved quick-disconnect device, which must be designed to provide a positive seal on the supply side of the gas system when the appliance is disconnected. A shutoff valve of the non-displaceable rotor type conforming to ANSI Z21.15-1997, Manually Operated Gas Valves, must be installed immediately upstream of the quick-disconnect device. The complete device must be provided as part of the original installation.

(iii) Protective caps or plugs for the "quick-disconnect" device, when disconnected, shall be permanently attached to the manufactured home adjacent to the device.

(iv) A tag shall be permanently attached to the outside of the exterior wall of the manufactured home as close as possible to the gas supply connection. The tag shall indicate the type of gas and the Btuh capacity of the outlet and shall be legibly inscribed as follows:
