
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.706 Oil piping systems.
####### Materials.

(b)All materials used for the installation extension, alteration, or repair, of any oil piping systems shall be new and free from defects or internal obstructions. The system shall be made of materials having a melting point of not less than 1,450 F, except as provided in ยง 280.706(d) and (e). They shall consist of one or more of the materials described in ยง 3280.706(b) (1) through (4).

(1) Steel or wrought-iron pipe shall comply with ANSI B 36.10-1979, Welded and Seamless Wrought Steel Pipe. Threaded copper or brass pipe in iron pipe sizes may be used.

(2) Fittings for oil piping shall be wrought-iron, malleable iron, steel, or brass (containing not more than 75 percent copper).

(3) Copper tubing must be annealed type, Grade K or L conforming to the Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube, ASTM B88-93, or shall comply with ASTM B280-1995, Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Tube for Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Field Service.

(4) Steel tubing shall have a minimum wall thickness of 0.032 inch for diameters up toinch and 0.049 inch for diametersinch and larger. Steel tubing shall be constructed in accordance with the Specification for Electric-Resistance-Welded Coiled Steel Tubing for Gas and Field Oil Lines, ASTM, A539-90a, and shall be externally corrosion protected.
