
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.705 Gas piping systems.
####### Testing for leakage.

(8)(i) Before appliances are connected, piping systems must stand a pressure of three +/- 0.2 psi gauge for a period of not less than ten minutes without showing any drop in pressure. Pressure must be measured with a mercury manometer or slope gauge calibrated so as to be read in increments of not greater than one-tenth pound, or an equivalent device. The source of normal operating pressure must be isolated before the pressure tests are made. Before a test is begun, the temperature of the ambient air and of the piping must be approximately the same, and constant air temperature must be maintained throughout the test.

(ii) After appliances are connected, the piping system shall be pressurized to not less than 10 inches nor more than 14 inches water column and the appliance connections tested for leakage with soapy water or bubble solution.

(iii) Where gas piping between transportable sections must be made on site, the installation instructions must contain provisions for onsite testing for leakage consistent with the provisions in paragraph (l)(8)(i) of this section.
