
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.707 Heat producing appliances.

(a) Heat-producing appliances and vents, roof jacks and chimneys necessary for their installation in manufactured homes shall be listed or certified by a nationally recognized testing agency for use in manufactured homes.

(1) A manufactured home shall be provided with a comfort heating system.

(i) When a manufactured home is manufactured to contain a heating appliance, the heating appliance shall be installed by the manufacturer of the manufactured home in compliance with applicable sections of this subpart.

(ii) When a manufactured home is manufactured for field application of an external heating or combination heating/cooling appliance, preparation of the manufactured home for this external application shall comply with the applicable sections of this part.

(2) Each gas and oil burning comfort heating appliance must have an Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiency of not less than that specified in 10 CFR part 430, Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products: Test Procedures for Furnaces/Boilers, Vented Home Heating Equipment and Pool Heaters.

(b) Fuel-burning heat-producing appliances and refrigeration appliances, except ranges and ovens, shall be of the vented type and vented to the outside.

(c) Fuel-burning appliances shall not be converted from one fuel to another fuel unless converted in accordance with the terms of their listing and the appliance manufacturer's instructions.
