
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.707 Heat producing appliances.
####### Performance efficiency.

(d)Each automatic storage water heater must comply with the efficiency requirements of 10 CFR part 430, Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products: Energy Conservation Standards for Water Heaters.

(1) All automatic electric storage water heaters installed in manufactured homes shall have a standby loss not exceeding 43 watts/meter(4 watts/ft) of tank surface area. The method of test for standby loss shall be as described in section 4.3.1 of Household Automatic Electric Storage Type Water Heaters, ANSI C72.1-1972.

(2) All gas and oil-fired automatic storage water heaters shall have a recovery efficiency, E, and a standby loss, S, as described below. The method of test of E and S shall be as described in section 2.7 of Gas Water heaters, Vol. I, Storage Water Heaters with Input/Ratings of 75,000 BTU per hour or less, ANSI Z21.10.1-1998 with addendums Z21.10.1a-2000, and Z21.10.1b-1992, except that for oil-fired units. CF = 1.0, Q = total gallons of oil consumed and H = total heating value of oil in BTU/gallon.

(e) Each space heating, cooling or combination heating and cooling system shall be provided with at least one readily adjustable automatic control for regulation of living space temperature. The control shall be placed a minimum of 3 feet from the vertical edge of the appliance compartment door. It shall not be located on an exterior wall or on a wall separating the appliance compartment from a habitable room.
