
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.708 Exhaust duct system and provisions for the future installation of a clothes dryer.
####### Clothes dryers.

(a)(1) All gas and electric clothes dryers must be exhausted to the outside by a moisture/lint exhaust duct and termination fitting. When the manufacturer supplies the clothes dryer, the exhaust duct and termination fittings must be completely installed by the manufacturer. If the exhaust duct system is subject to damage during transportation, or a field connection between transportable sections is required, complete factory installation of the exhaust duct system is not required when the following apply:

(i) The exhaust duct system is connected to the clothes dryer, and

(ii) A moisture lint exhaust duct system is roughed in and installation instructions are provided in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) or (c) of this section.

(2) A clothes dryer moisture-lint exhaust duct shall not be connected to any other duct, vent or chimney.

(3) The exhaust duct shall not terminate beneath the manufactured home.

(4) Moisture-lint exhaust ducts shall not be connected with sheet metal screws or other fastening devices which extend into the interior of the duct.

(5) Moisture-lint exhaust duct and termination fittings shall be installed in accordance with the appliance manufacturer's printed instructions.
