
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Heating, Cooling and Fuel Burning Systems
###### ยง 3280.714 Appliances, cooling.

(a) Every air conditioning unit or a combination air conditioning and heating unit shall be listed or certified by a nationally recognized testing agency for the application for which the unit is intended and installed in accordance with the terms of its listing.

(1) Mechanical air conditioners shall be rated in accordance with the ARI Standard 210/240-89 Unitary Air Conditioning and Air Source Unitary Heat Pump Equipment (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4) and certified by ARI or other nationally recognized testing agency capable of providing follow-up service.

(i) Electric motor-driven unitary air-cooled air conditioners and heat pumps in the cooling mode with rated capacity less than 65,000 BTU/hour (19,045 watts), when rated at ARI standard rating conditions in ARI Standard 210/240-89, Unitary Air-Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment, must have seasonal energy efficiency (SEER) values not less than as specified in 10 CFR Part 430, Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products: Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps Energy Conservation Standards.

(ii) Heat pumps must be certified to comply with all requirements of the ARI Standard 210/240-89, Unitary Air Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment. Electric motor-driven vapor compression heat pumps with supplemental electrical resistance heat must be sized to provide by compression at least 60 percent of the calculated annual heating requirements for the manufactured home being served. A control must be provided and set to prevent operation of supplemental electrical resistance heat at outdoor temperatures above 40 &#xB0;F (4 &#xB0;C), except for defrost conditions. Electric motor-driven vapor compression heat pumps with supplemental electric resistance heat conforming to ARI Standard 210/240-89, Unitary Air-Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment, must have Heating Season Performance Factor (HSPF) efficiencies not less than as specified in the 10 CFR Part 430, Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products: Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps Energy Conservation Standards.

(iii) Electric motor-driven vapor compression heat pumps with supplemental electric resistance heat conforming to ARI Standard 210/240-89 Unitary Air-Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment shall show coefficient of performance ratios not less than shown below:

(2) Gas fired absorption air conditioners must be listed or certified in accordance with ANSI Z21.40.1-1996, Gas Fired, Heat Activated, Air Conditioning and Heat Pump Appliances (incorporated by reference, see ยง 3280.4), and certified by a nationally recognized testing agency capable of providing follow-up service.

(3) Direct refrigerating systems serving any air conditioning or comfort-cooling system installed in a manufactured home shall employ a type of refrigerant that ranks no lower than Group 5 in the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. "Classification of Comparative Life Hazard of Various Chemicals."

(4) When a cooling or heat pump coil and air conditioner blower are installed with a furnace or heating appliance, they shall be tested and listed in combination for heating and safety performance by a nationally recognized testing agency.

(5) Cooling or heat pump indoor coils and outdoor sections shall be certified, listed and rated in combination for capacity and efficiency by a nationally recognized testing agency(ies). Rating procedures shall be based on U.S. Department of Energy test procedures.
