
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart I - Electrical Systems
###### ยง 3280.807 Fixtures and appliances.

(a) Electrical materials, devices, appliances, fittings, and other equipment installed, intended for use in, or attached to the manufactured home shall be approved for the application and shall be connected in an approved manner when in service. Facilities shall be provided to securely fasten appliances when the manufactured home is in transit. (See ยง 3280.809.)

(b) Specifically listed pendant-type fixtures or pendant cords shall be permitted in manufactured homes.

(c) Where a lighting fixture is installed over a bathtub or in a shower stall, it must be listed for wet locations. [See also Article 410.4(D) of the National Electrical Code NFPA No. 70-2005.]

(d) The switch for shower lighting fixtures and exhaust fans located over a tub or in a shower stall shall be located outside the tub shower space. (See ยง 3280.806(e).)

(e) Any combustible wall or ceiling finish exposed between the edge of a fixture canopy, or pan and an outlet box shall be covered with non-combustible or limited combustible material.

(f) Every appliance shall be accessible for inspection, service, repair, or replacement without removal of permanent construction.

(g) In bathrooms, ceiling-mounted lighting fixtures and wall-mounted lighting fixtures must not be controlled by the same switch.
