
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart I - Electrical Systems
###### ยง 3280.804 Disconnecting means and branch-circuit protective equipment.
####### Disconnecting means.

(c)A single disconnecting means must be provided in each manufactured home, consisting of a circuit breaker, or a switch and fuses and its accessories, installed in a readily accessible location near the point of entrance of the supply cord or conductors into the manufactured home. The main circuit breakers or fuses must be plainly marked "Main." This equipment must contain a solderless type of grounding connector or bar for the purposes of grounding, with sufficient terminals for all grounding conductors. The neutral bar termination of the grounded circuit conductors must be insulated in accordance with ยง 3280.809(b).

(d) The disconnecting equipment shall have a rating suitable for the connected load. The distribution equipment, either circuit breaker or fused type, shall be located a minimum of 24 inches from the bottom of such equipment to the floor level of the manufactured home.

(e) A distribution panelboard employing a main circuit breaker must be rated not less than 50 amperes and employ a 2-pole circuit breaker rated 40 amperes for a 40-ampere supply cord, or 50 amperes for a 50-ampere supply cord. A distribution panelboard employing a disconnect switch and fuses must be rated not less than 60 amperes and must employ a single, 2-pole fuseholder rated not less than 60-amperes with 40- or 50-ampere main fuses for 40- or 50-ampere supply cords, respectively. The outside of the distribution panelboard must be plainly marked with the fuse size.

(f) The distribution panelboard must be located in an accessible location, and must not be located in a bathroom or a clothes closet. A clear working space at least 30 inches wide and 30 inches in front of the distribution panelboard must be provided. This space must extend from the floor to the top of the distribution panelboard. Where used as switches, circuit breakers must be installed so that the center of the grip of the operating handle of the circuit breaker, when in its highest position, will not be more than 6 feet, 7 inches above the floor.

(g) Branch-circuit distribution equipment shall be installed in each manufactured home and shall include overcurrent protection for each branch circuit consisting of either circuit breakers or fuses.

(1) The branch circuit overcurrent devices shall be rated:

(i) Not more than the circuit conductors; and

(ii) Not more than 150 percent of the rating of a single appliance rated 13.3 amperes or more which is supplied by an individual branch circuit; but

(iii) Not more than the fuse size marked on the air conditioner or other motor-operated appliance.

(h) A 15-ampere multiple receptacle shall be acceptable when connected to a 20-ampere laundry circuit.

(i) When circuit breakers are provided for branch-circuit protection 240 circuits shall be protected by 2-pole common or companion trip, or handle-tied paired circuit breakers.

(j) A 3 inch by 1-3/4 inch minimum size tag made of etched, metal-stamped or embossed brass, stainless steel, anodized or alclad aluminum not less than 0.020 inch thick, or other approval material (e.g., 0.005 inch plastic laminates) shall be permanently affixed on the outside adjacent to the feeder assembly entrance and shall read: This connection for 120/240 Volt, 3-Pole, 4-Wire, 60 Hertz, ________ Ampere Supply. The correct ampere rating shall be marked on the blank space.

(k) When a home is provided with installed service equipment, a single disconnecting means for disconnecting the branch circuit conductors from the service entrance conductors must be provided in accordance with Article 230, Part VI of the National Electrical Code, NFPA No. 70-2005. The disconnecting means shall be listed for use as service equipment. The disconnecting means may be combined with the disconnect required by ยง 3280.804(c). The disconnecting means shall be rated not more than the ampere supply or service capacity indicated on the tag required by paragraph (l) of this section.

(l) When a home is provided with installed service equipment, the electrical nameplate required by ยง 3280.804(j) shall read: "This connection for 120/240 volt, 3 pole, 3 wire, 60 Hertz, ________ Ampere Supply." The correct ampere rating shall be marked in the blank space.
