
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart I - Electrical Systems
###### ยง 3280.813 Outdoor outlets, fixtures, air-conditioning equipment, etc.

(a) Outdoor fixtures and equipment shall be listed for use in wet locations, except that if located on the underside of the home or located under roof extensions or similarly protected locations, they may be listed for use in damp locations.

(b) A manufactured home provided with a branch circuit designed to energize outside heating equipment or air-conditioning equipment, other than room air conditioners, or both, located outside the manufactured home, other than room air conditioners, must have such branch-circuit conductors terminate in a listed outlet box, or disconnecting means, located on the outside of the manufactured home.

(1) A label must be permanently affixed adjacent to the outlet box. The label must be not less than 0.020-inches thick etched brass, stainless steel, anodized or alclad aluminum, or equivalent, and must not be less than 3 inches x 1inches in size.

(2)(i) The label must include the correct voltage and ampere rating and the following information:

(ii) The correct voltage and ampere rating shall be given. The tag must be not less than 0.020-inches thick etched brass, stainless steel, anodized or alclad aluminum, or equivalent. The tag must have a minimum size of not less than 3 inches x 1inches.
