
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart I - Electrical Systems
###### ยง 3280.811 Calculations.

(a) The following method shall be employed in computing the supply cord and distribution-panelboard load for each feeder assembly for each manufactured home and shall be based on a 3-wire, 120/240 volt supply with 120 volt loads balanced between the two legs of the 3-wire system. The total load for determining power supply by this method is the summation of:

(1) Lighting and small appliance load as calculated below:

(i) Lighting volt-amperes: Length time width of manufactured home (outside dimensions exclusive of coupler) times 3 volt-amperes per square foot; e.g. Length x width x 3 = lighting volt-amperes.

(ii) Small appliance volt-amperes: Number of circuits time 1,500 volt-amperes for each 20-ampere appliance receptacle circuit (see definition of "Appliance Portable" with Note): e.g. Number of circuits x 1,500 = small appliance volt-amperes.

(iii) Total volts-amperes: Lighting volts-amperes plus small appliance = total volt-amperes.

(iv) First 3,000 total volts-amperes at 100 percent plus remainder at 35 percent = watts to be divided by 240 volts to obtain current (amperes) per leg.

(2) Nameplate amperes for motors and heater loads (exhaust fans, air conditioners, electric, gas, or oil heating). Omit smaller of air conditioning and heating except include blower motor if used as air conditioner evaporator motor. When an air conditioner is not installed and a 40-ampere power supply cord is provided, allow 15 amperes per leg for air conditioning.

(3) 25 percent of current of largest motor in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) Total of nameplate amperes for: Disposal, dishwasher, water heater, clothes dryer, wall-mounted oven, cooking units. Where number of these appliances exceeds three, use 75 percent of total.

(5) Derive amperes for free-standing range (as distinguished from separate ovens and cooking units) by dividing values below by 240 volts.

(6) If outlets or circuits are provided for other than factory-installed appliances, include the anticipated load. The following example is given to illustrate the application of this Method of Calculation:

(b) The following is an optional method of calculation for lighting and appliance loads for manufactured homes served by single 3-wire 120/240 volt set of feeder conductors with an ampacity of 100 or greater. The total load for determining the feeder ampacity may be computed in accordance with the following table instead of the method previously specified. Feeder conductors whose demand load is determined by this optional calculation are permitted to have the neutral load determined by Article 220.61 of the National Electrical Code, NFPA No. 70-2005. The loads identified in the table as "other load" and as "Remainder of other load" must include the following:

(1) 1500 volt-amperes for each 2-wire, 20-ampere small appliance branch circuit and each laundry branch circuit specified.

(2) 3 volt-amperes per square foot for general lighting and general-use receptacles.

(3) The nameplate rating of all fixed appliances, ranges, wall-mounted ovens, counter-mounted cooking units, and including 4 or more separately controlled space heating loads.

(4) The nameplate ampere or kVA rating of all motors and of all low-power-factor loads.

(5) The largest of the following:

(i) Air conditioning load;

(ii) The 65 percent diversified demand of the central electric space heating load;

(iii) The 65 percent diversified demand of the load of less than four separately-controlled electric space heating units.

(iv) The connected load of four or more separately-controlled electric space heating units.
