
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3280 - MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart K - Attached Manufactured Homes and Special Construction Considerations
###### ยง 3280.1003 Attached manufactured home unit separation.
####### Parapets.

(d)(1) Parapets constructed in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section must be provided for attached manufactured homes as an extension of fire separation walls in accordance with the following:

(i) Where roof surfaces adjacent to the fire separation walls are at the same elevation, the parapet must extend not less than 30 inches above the roof surfaces.

(ii) Where roof surfaces adjacent to the wall or walls are at different elevations and the higher roof is not more than 30 inches above the lower roof surface, the parapet must not extend less than 30 inches above the lower roof surface.

(A) Parapets must be provided unless roofs are of a Class C roof covering and the roof decking or sheathing is of noncombustible materials or approved fire-retardant-treated wood for a distance of four feet on each side of the common fire separation walls; or one layer ofinch Type X gypsum board or equivalent is installed directly beneath the roof decking or sheathing for a distance of four feet on each side of the fire separation walls.

(B) A parapet must not be required where roof surfaces adjacent to the common walls are at different elevations and the higher roof is more than 30 inches above the lower roof. The fire separation wall construction from the lower roof to the underside of the higher roof deck must not have less than a 1-hour fire-resistive rating. The wall must be rated for exposure from both sides.

(2) Parapets must have the same fire resistance rating as that required for the supporting wall or walls. On any side adjacent to a roof surface, the parapet must have noncombustible faces for the uppermost 18 inches, to include counter flashing and coping materials. Where the roof slopes toward a parapet at slopes greater than(16.7 percent slope), the parapet must extend to the same height as any portion of the roof within a distance of three feet, but in no case will the height be less than 30 inches.
