
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3282.1 Scope and purpose.
####### et seq.

(a) The National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (title VI of Pub. L. 93-383, 88 Stat. 700, 42 U.S.C. 5401,) (hereinafter referred to as the Act), requires the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development to establish Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards and to issue regulations to carry out the purpose of the Act. The standards promulgated pursuant to the Act appear at part 3280 of chapter XX of this title, and apply to all manufactured homes manufactured for sale to purchasers in the United States on or after the effective date of the standards (June 15, 1976). A manufactured home is manufactured on or after June 15, 1976, if it enters the first stage of production on or after that date.

(b) The Secretary is also authorized by the Act to conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the standards, to determine that a manufactured home fails to comply with an applicable standard or contains a defect or an imminent safety hazard, and to direct the manufacturer to furnish notification thereof, and in some cases, to remedy the defect or imminent safety hazard. The purpose of this part is to prescribe procedures for the implementation of these responsibilities of the Secretary under the Act through the use of private and State inspection organizations and cooperation with State manufactured home agencies. It is the policy of the Department to involve State agencies in the enforcement of the Federal manufactured home standards to the maximum extent possible consistent with the capabilities of such agencies and the public interest. The procedures for investigations and investigational proceedings are set forth in 24 CFR part 3800.
