
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3282.8 Applicability.
####### Add-on.

(j)An add-on including an attached accessory building or structure added by the retailer or some party other than the manufacturer (except where the manufacturer acts as a retailer) as part of a simultaneous transaction involving the sale of a new manufactured home, is not governed by the standards and is not subject to the regulations in this part except as identified in this section and part 3280 of this chapter. The addition of any add-on or attached accessory building or structure must not affect the ability of the manufactured home to comply with the standards. If the addition of an add-on or attached accessory building or structure causes the manufactured home to fail to conform to the standards, then sale, lease, and offer for sale or lease of the home are prohibited until the manufactured home is brought into conformance with the standards.

(1) With the exception of attached accessory buildings or structures, add-ons must be structurally independent and any attachment between the home and the add-on must be for weatherproofing or cosmetic purposes only.

(2) If an attached accessory building or structure is not structurally independent all the following must be met for attachment to the manufactured home:

(i) Manufactured home must be designed and constructed to accommodate all imposed loads, including any loads imposed on the home by the attached accessory building or structure, in accordance with part 3280 of this chapter.

(ii) Data plate must indicate that home has been designed to accommodate the additional loads imposed by the attachment of the attached accessory buildings or structures and must identify the design loads.

(iii) Installation instructions shall be provided by the home manufacturer which identifies acceptable attachment locations, indicates design limitations for the attached accessory building or structure including acceptable live and dead loads for which the home has been designed to accommodate and provide support and anchorage designs as necessary to transfer all imposed loads to the ground in accordance with part 3285 of this chapter.

(k) A structure (including an expandable room, tip-out, or tag-along unit) which is designed and produced as an integral part of a manufactured home when assembled on site, is governed by the standards and these regulations regardless of the dimensions of such structure.
