
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 3282.13 Voluntary certification.
####### manufactured home,manufactured homes

(b) Structures which meet all of the requirements of aas set out in § 3282.7(u), except the size requirements, shall beif the manufacturer files with the Secretary a certification in the following form:

(c) Whenever a manufacturer which has filed a certification pursuant to § 3282.13(b) produces structures which are not manufactured homes, it must identify each such structure by placing a permanent serial number on the structure during the first stage of production. The series of serial numbers placed on these structures shall be distinguishable on the structure and in the manufacturer's records from the series of serial numbers used for manufactured homes.

(d) A manufacturer may certify a structure as a manufactured home after having applied a serial number identifying it as a structure which is not a manufactured home. To do so, the manufacturer must secure the written consent of the IPIA. This consent may only be given after a DAPIA has approved the manufacturer's design and quality assistance manual in accordance with § 3282.361, and after the IPIA has thoroughly inspected the structure in at least one stage of production and after such removal of equipment, components or materials as the IPIA may require to assure that the structure conforms to the standards. After certification as a manufactured home has been approved, the manufacturer shall remove the original serial number and add the serial number required by § 3280.6.

(e) Once a manufacturer has certified under § 3282.13(b) that it intends to build structures which are manufactured homes in all respects except size, the manufacturer must then, with respect to those structures, comply with all of the requirements of the Act and its regulations. The structures may not thereafter be exempted under any other section of these regulations.
