
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Informal and Formal Presentations of Views, Hearings and Investigations
###### ยง 3282.152 Procedures to present views and evidence.
####### Informal presentation of views.

(f)(1) An Informal Presentation of Views may be written or oral, and may include an opportunity for an oral presentation, whether requested or not, whenever the Secretary concludes that an oral presentation would be in the public interest, and so states in the notice. A presiding officer shall preside over all oral presentations held under this subsection. The purpose of any such presentation shall be to gather information to allow fully informed decision making. Informal Presentations of Views shall not be adversary proceedings. Oral presentations shall be conducted in an informal but orderly manner. The presiding officer shall have the duty and authority to conduct a fair proceeding, to take all necessary action to avoid delay, and to maintain order. In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the presiding officer at an oral Informal Presentation of Views shall not require that testimony be given under an oath or affirmation, and shall not permit either cross-examination of witnesses by other witnesses or their representatives, or the presentation of rebuttal testimony by persons who have already testified. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not control the conduct of oral Informal Presentations of Views.

(2) Within 10 days after an Informal Presentation of Views, the presiding officer shall refer to the Secretary all documentary evidence submitted, the transcript, if any, a summary of the issues involved and information presented in the Informal Presentation of Views and the presiding official's recommendations, with the rationale therefor. The presiding officer shall make any appropriate statements concerning the apparent veracity of witnesses or the validity of factual assertions which may be within the competence of the presiding officer. The Secretary shall issue a Final Determination concerning the matters at issue within 30 days of receipt of the presiding officer's summary. The Final Determination shall include:

(i) A statement of findings, with specific references to principal supporting items of evidence in the record and conclusions, as well as the reasons or bases therefor, upon all of the material issues of fact, law, or discretion as presented on the record, and

(ii) An appropriate order. Notice of the Final Determination shall be given in writing and transmitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to all participants in the presentation of views. The Final Determination shall be conclusive, with respect to persons whose interests were represented.
