
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Informal and Formal Presentations of Views, Hearings and Investigations
###### ยง 3282.152 Procedures to present views and evidence.
####### Notice.

(c)When the Secretary decides to conduct a Formal or an Informal Presentation of Views under this section, the Secretary shall provide notice as follows:

(1) Except where the need for swift resolution of the question involved prohibits it, notice of a proceeding hereunder shall be published in theat least 10 days prior to the date of the proceeding. In any case, notice shall be provided to interested persons to the maximum extent practicable. Direct notice shall be sent by certified mail to the parties involved in the hearing.

(2) The notice, whether published or mailed, shall include a statement of the time, place and nature of the proceeding; reference to the authority under which the proceeding will be held; a statement of the subject matter of the proceeding, the parties and issues involved; and a statement of the manner in which interested persons shall be afforded the opportunity to participate in the hearing.

(3) The notice shall designate the official who shall be the presiding officer for the proceedings and to whom all inquiries should be directed concerning such proceedings.

(4) The notice shall state whether the proceeding shall be held in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f)-(Informal Presentation of Views) or paragraph (g)-(Formal Presentation of Views) of this section, except that when the Secretary makes the determinations provided for in sections 623 (d) and (f) of the Act, the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section shall apply. In determining whether the requirements of paragraph (f) or those of paragraph (g) of this section shall apply the Secretary shall consider the following:

(i) The necessity for expeditious action;

(ii) The risk of injury to affected members of the public;

(iii) The economic consequences of the decisions to be rendered; and

(iv) Such other factors as the Secretary determines are appropriate.
