
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Informal and Formal Presentations of Views, Hearings and Investigations
###### ยง 3282.152 Procedures to present views and evidence.
####### Formal presentation of views.

(g)(1) A Formal Presentation of Views is an adversary proceeding and includes an opportunity for the oral presentation of evidence. All witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation, which shall be administered by the presiding officer. Participants shall have the right to present such oral or documentary evidence and to conduct such cross-examination as the presiding officer determines is required for a full and true disclosure of facts. The presiding officer shall receive relevant and material evidence, rule upon offers of proof and exclude all irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence. However, the technicalities of the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not control the conduct of a Formal Presentation of Views. The presiding officer shall take all necessary action to regulate the course of the Formal Presentation of Views to avoid delay and to maintain order. The presiding officer may exclude the attorney or witness from further participation in the particular Formal Presentation of Views and may render a decision adverse to the interests of the excluded party in his absence.
