
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Manufacturer Inspection and Certification Requirements
###### § 3282.204 IPIA services.

(a) Each manufacturer shall obtain the services of an IPIA as set out in § 3282.362 for each manufacturing plant operated by the manufacturer.

(b) The manufacturer shall make available to the IPIA operating in each of its plants a copy of the drawings and specifications from the DAPIA approved design and the quality assurance manual for that plant, and the IPIA shall perform an initial factory inspection as set out in § 3282.362(b). If the IPIA issues a deviation report after the initial factory inspection, the manufacturer shall make any corrections or adjustments which are necessary to conform with the DAPIA approved designs and manuals. After the corrections required by the deviation report are completed to the satisfaction of the IPIA, the IPIA shall issue the certification report as described in § 3282.362(b)(2). In certain instances a DAPIA may provide the certification report. (See § 3282.362) The manufacturer shall maintain a current copy of each certification report in the plant to which the certification report relates.

(c) After the certification report has been signed by the IPIA, the manufacturer shall obtain labels from the IPIA and shall affix them to completed manufactured homes as set out in § 3282.362(c)(2). During the initial factory certification, the IPIA may apply labels to manufactured homes which it knows to be in compliance with the standards if it is performing complete inspections of all phases of production of each manufactured home and the manufacturer authorizes it to apply labels.

(d) During the course of production the manufacturer shall maintain a complete set of approved drawings, specifications, and approved design changes for the use of the IPIA's inspector and always available to that inspector when in the manufacturing plant.

(e) If during the course of production, an IPIA finds a failure to conform to a standard exists in a manufactured home under production, the manufacturer must correct the failure to conform in any manufactured home still in the factory and held by distributors or retailers and shall carry out remedial actions under § 3282.416(a) with respect to any other manufactured homes which may contain the same failure to conform.
