
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Primary Inspection Agencies
###### ยง 3282.361 Design Approval Primary Inspection Agency (DAPIA).
####### Designs.

(b)(1) In evaluating designs for compliance with the standards, the DAPIA will not allow any deviations from accepted engineering practice standards for design calculations or any deviations from accepted test standards, except that the DAPIA, for good cause, may request the Secretary to accept innovations which are not yet accepted practices. Acceptances by the Secretary shall be published in the form of interpretative bulletins, where appropriate.

(2) The DAPIA shall require the manufacturer to submit floor plans and specific information for each manufactured home design or variation which the DAPIA is to evaluate. It shall also require the submission of drawings, specifications, calculations, and test records of the structural, electrical and mechanical systems of each such manufactured home design or variation. The manufacturer need not supply duplicate information where systems are common to several floor plans. Each DAPIA shall develop and carry out procedures for evaluating original manufactured home designs by requiring manufacturers to submit necessary drawings and calculations and carry out such verifications and calculations as it deems necessary. Where compliance with the standards cannot be determined on the basis of drawings and calculations, the DAPIA shall require any necessary tests to be carried out at its own facility, at separate testing facilities or at the manufacturer's plant.
