
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Primary Inspection Agencies
###### ยง 3282.358 Personnel.

(a) Each primary inspection agency shall have qualified personnel capable of carrying out all of the functions for which the primary inspection agency is seeking to be approved or disapproved. Where a State intends to act as the exclusive IPIA in the State, it shall show that it has adequate personnel to so act in all plants in the State.

(b) Each submission shall indicate the total number of personnel employed by the submitting party, the number of personnel available for this program, and the locations of the activities of the personnel to be used in the program.

(c) Each submission shall include the names and qualifications of the administrator and the supervisor who will be directly responsible for the program, and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(d) Each submission shall contain the information set out in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(9) of this section. Depending upon the functions (DAPIA or IPIA) to be undertaken by a particular primary inspection agency, some of the categories of personnel listed may not be required. In such cases, the submission should indicate which of the categories of information are not required and explain why they are not needed. The submission should identify which personnel will carry out each of the functions the party plans to perform. The qualifications of the personnel to perform one or more of the functions will be judged in accordance with the requirements of ASTM Standard E-541 except that the requirement for registration as a professional engineer or architect may be waived for personnel whose qualifications by experience or education equal those of a registered engineer or architect. The categories of personnel to be included in the submission are as follows:

(1) The names of engineers practicing structural engineering who will be involved in the evaluation, testing, or followup inspection services, and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(2) The names of engineers practicing mechanical engineering who will be involved in the evaluation, testing, or followup, inspection services and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(3) The names of engineers practicing electrical engineering who will be involved in the evaluation, testing, or followup inspection services and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(4) The names of engineers practicing fire protection engineering who will be involved in the evaluation, testing, or followup inspection services, and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(5) The names of all other engineers assigned to this program, the capacity in which they will be employed, and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(6) The names of all full-time and part-time consulting architects and engineers, their registration, and r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of their experience.

(7) The names of inspectors and other technicians along with r&#xE9;sum&#xE9;s of experience and a description of the type of work each will perform.

(8) A general outline of the applicant agency's training program for assuring that all inspectors and other technicians are properly trained to do each specific job assigned.

(9) The names and qualifications of individuals serving on advisory panels that assist the applicant agency in making its policies conform with the public interest in the field of public health and safety.

(e) All information required by this section shall be kept current. The Secretary shall be notified of any change in personnel or management or change of ownership or State jurisdiction within 30 days of such change.
