
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Primary Inspection Agencies
###### § 3282.362 Production Inspection Primary Inspection Agencies (IPIAs).
####### Data plate.

(3)(i) The IPIA shall assure that each manufactured home produced in each manufacturing plant under its surveillance is supplied with a data plate which meets the requirements of this section and of § 3280.5 of chapter XX of 24 CFR. The data plate shall be furnished by the manufacturer and affixed inside the manufactured home on or near the main electrical distribution panel. The data plate shall contain the following information:

(A) The name and address of the manufacturing plant in which the manufactured home was manufactured,

(B) The serial number and model designation of the unit and the date the unit was manufactured,

(C) The statement "This manufactured home is designed to comply with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards in force at the time of manufacture.",

(D) A list of major factory-installed equipment including the manufacturer's name and the model designation of each appliance,

(E) Reference to the roof load zone and wind load zone for which the home is designed and duplicates of the maps as set forth in § 3280.305. This information may be combined with the heating/cooling certificate and insulation zone map required by §§ 3280.510 and 3280.511. The Wind Zone Map on the Data Plate shall also contain the statement:

(F) The statement:

(G) The statement: "Design Approval by", followed by the name of the agency that approved the design.

(ii) A copy of the data plate shall be furnished to the IPIA, and the IPIA shall keep a permanent record of the data plate as part of its labeling record so that the information is available during the life of the manufactured home in case the data plate in the manufactured home is defaced or destroyed.
