
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3282 - MANUFACTURED HOME PROCEDURAL AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Consumer Complaint Handling and Remedial Actions
###### ยง 3282.417 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of manufacturer's determinations.

(b)(1) A manufacturer must record each initial and class determination required under ยง 3282.404, in a manner approved by the Secretary or an SAA and that identifies who made each determination, what each determination was, and all bases for each determination. Such information must be available for review by the IPIA.

(2) The manufacturer records must include:

(i) The information it received that likely indicated a noncompliance, defect, serious defect, or imminent safety hazard;

(ii) All of the manufacturer's determinations and each basis for those determinations;

(iii) The methods used by the manufacturer to establish any class, including, when applicable, the cause of the defect, serious defect, or imminent safety hazard; and

(iv) Any IPIA concurrence or statement that it does not concur with the manufacturer's class determination, in accordance with ยง 3282.404(b).

(3) When the records that a manufacturer is required to keep in accordance with this paragraph (b) involve a class of manufactured homes that have the same noncompliance, defect, serious defect, or imminent safety hazard, the manufacturer has the option of meeting the requirements of this paragraph by establishing a class determination file, instead of including the same information in the file required by paragraph (e) of this section for each affected home. Such class determination file must contain the records of each class determination, notification, and correction, as applicable. For each class determination, the manufacturer must record once in each class determination file the information common to the class, and must identify by serial number all of the homes that the class comprises and that are subject to notification and correction, as applicable.
