
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3285 - MODEL MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3285.1 Administration.
####### Scope.

(a)These Model Installation Standards provide minimum requirements for the initial installation of new manufactured homes, in accordance with section 605 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 5404). The Model Installation Standards are one component of the Manufactured Home Installation Program in Part 3286 of this chapter, upon effect, and serve as the basis for developing the manufacturers' installation instructions required by ยง 3285.2 of this subpart. The manufacturer's installation instructions, including specific methods for performing a specific operation or assembly, will be deemed to comply with these Model Installation Standards, provided they meet or exceed the minimum requirements of these Model Installation Standards and do not take the home out of compliance with the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR part 3280). Work necessary to join all sections of a multi-section home specifically identified in Subparts G, H, and I of this part, or work associated with connecting exterior lights, chain-hung light fixtures, or ceiling-suspended fans, as specifically identified in Subpart I, is not considered assembly or construction of the home, although the design of those elements of a manufactured home must comply with the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (MHCSS). However, work associated with the completion of hinged roofs and eaves in ยง 3285.801 and other work done on-site and not specifically identified in this part as close-up is considered construction and assembly and is subject to the requirements of the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR part 3280) and the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations (24 CFR part 3282).

(1) States that choose to operate an installation program for manufactured homes in lieu of the federal program must implement installation standards that provide protection to its residents that equals or exceeds the protection provided by these Model Installation Standards.

(2) In states that do not choose to operate their own installation program for manufactured homes, these Model Installation Standards serve as the minimum standards for manufactured home installations.
