
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 4 - HUD REFORM ACT
#### Subpart A - Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance
##### ยง 4.13 Limitation of assistance subject to section 102(d).
###### e.g.,

(b) If the Department determines that the aggregate of assistance within the jurisdiction of the Department to a housing project from the Department and from other governmental sources exceeds the amount that the Secretary determines is necessary to make the assisted activity feasible, the Department will consider all options available to enable it to make the required certification, including reductions in the amount of Section 8 subsidies. The Department also may impose a dollar-for-dollar, or equivalent, reduction in the amount of HUD assistance to offset the amount of other government assistance. In grant programs, this could result in a reduction of any grant amounts not yet drawn down. The Department may make these adjustments immediately, or in conjunction with servicing actions anticipated to occur in the near future (in conjunction with the next annual adjustment of Section 8 rents).

(c) If an applicant does not meet the $200,000 disclosure requirement in ยง 4.7(b), an applicant must certify whether there is, or is expected to be made, available with respect to the housing project any other governmental assistance. The Department may also require any applicant subject to this subpart A to submit such a certification in conjunction with the Department's processing of any subsequent servicing action on that project. If there is other government assistance for purposes of the two preceding sentences, the applicant must submit such information as the Department deems necessary to make the certification and subsequent adjustments under Section 102(d).

(d) The certification under Section 102(d) shall be retained in the official file for the housing project.
