
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3285 - MODEL MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Anchorage Against Wind
###### ยง 3285.402 Ground anchor installations.
####### Field tests of anchor assemblies.

(7)(i) The soil characteristics at the certification test site must be identified and recorded according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The date, approximate time, and names of persons conducting and witnessing the anchor assembly tests must also be recorded at each certification test site.

(ii) Connection of the testing apparatus to the anchor assembly head must provide loading conditions to the anchor head, similar to actual site conditions. Adequacy of the connection must be determined by the testing agency or test engineer.

(iii) For soil classifications 3, 4A, and 4B, testing must be performed in the lower 50 percentile torque probe value of the soil classification being tested. For soil classifications 1 and 2 the torque probe value must not exceed 750 inch-pounds.

(iv) A minimum of three tests must be performed and the result of each test must meet or exceed 4,725 pounds pull (3,150 x 1.5 factor of safety) in the direction of pull.

(v) Special-purpose anchor assemblies, including those needed to accommodate unique design loads identified by manufacturers in their installation instructions, may be certified under this section or to more stringent requirements such as higher working loads, more restrictive anchor head displacements and/or tested angle limitations.
