
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3285 - MODEL MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Anchorage Against Wind
###### ยง 3285.402 Ground anchor installations.
####### 2

() Failure of either the anchoring equipment or its attachment point to the testing apparatus, or to a minimum of 4725 pounds (when possible tests should be taken to 6000 pounds to provide additional data but this is NOT required).

(v) In line ground anchor assembly method. Ground anchor assembly installation and withdrawal procedures for test purposes must be as follows, and must be used consistently throughout all tests.

(A) The ground anchor must be installed at an angle from the horizontal ground surface at which it is to be rated.

(B) The ground anchor must be driven to its full depth into the soil.

(C) The ground anchor head must be attached to the tensioning equipment such that tension and displacement can be recorded.

(D) The anchor must be pulled in line with the ground anchor shaft.

(E) The ground anchor shall be pre-tensioned 500 pounds.

(F) The location of the ground anchor head is to be marked after it is pre-tensioned for measuring subsequent movement under test loading.

(G) Increase the load throughout the test. The recommended rate of load application must be such that the loading to not less than 4725 pounds is reached in not less than 2 minutes from the time the 500 pound pre-tension load is achieved.

(H) Record the load and displacement, at a minimum of 500-1000 pound increments, such that a minimum of five data points will be obtained to determine a load deflection curve. For each datum, the applied load and the ground anchor head displacement is to be recorded. In addition, the load and displacement is to be recorded at the Failure Mode identified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section. It shall be permissible to halt the addition of load at each loading increment for up to 60 seconds to facilitate taking displacement readings. The ultimate anchor load of the ground anchor assembly and corresponding displacement must be recorded. The pre-tension load of 500 pounds should be included in the 4725 pound ultimate anchor load test. It is permissible to interpolate between displacement and load measurements to determine the Ultimate anchor load.

(I) All ground anchor assemblies must be tested to the following:
