
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3285 - MODEL MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Anchorage Against Wind
###### ยง 3285.402 Ground anchor installations.
####### Anchor assembly field test methods.

(8)(i) An anchor assembly must be tested in accordance with one or more of the assembly configurations addressed in paragraphs (b)(8)(iii), (iv) and (v) of this section. The as-tested configuration of any anchor assembly is a condition of the listing or certification. Alternate configurations are acceptable provided test conditions appropriately simulate actual end-use conditions and the as-tested configuration is addressed in the manufacturer's installation instructions.

(ii) Anchor assemblies designed for multiple connections to the manufactured home must be individually tested as specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(iii) and (iv) of this section.

(iii) Anchor assembly/stabilizer plate method. The following anchor assembly installation and testing must be consistently applied for all tests:

(A) The ground anchor is to be installed at an angle of 10-15 degrees from vertical to a depth of one-half () to two-thirds () of the anchor length.

(B) A stabilizer plate is to be driven vertically on the side of the ground anchor shaft facing the tensioning equipment three inches (3&#x2033;) from the shaft and the top of the plate must be installed flush with the soil surface or not more than one inch below the soil surface.

(C) The ground anchor is to be driven to its full depth into the soil with the bottom of the anchor head not more thaninch (&#x2033;) above the stabilizer plate.

(D) The ground anchor head is to be attached to the tensioning equipment such that the tension load and displacement can be recorded. The tensioning equipment must be positioned to load the ground anchor and stabilizer plate at the minimum angle to the test site ground surface for which the anchor is being evaluated.

(E) The ground anchor is to be pre-tensioned to 500 pounds so that the anchor shaft contacts the stabilizer plate. If the anchor shaft does not come into contact with the stabilizer plate an anchor setting load not to exceed 1,000 pounds is permitted to be applied and then released prior to re-application of the 500-pound pre-tension force.

(F) The location of the ground anchor head is to be marked after it is pre-tensioned for measuring subsequent movement under test loading.

(G) Increase the load throughout the test. The recommended rate of load application must be such that the loading to not less than 4725 pounds is reached in not less than 2 minutes from the time the 500 pound pre-tension load is achieved.

(H) Record the load and displacement, at a minimum of 500-1000 pound increments, such that a minimum of five data points will be obtained to determine a load deflection curve. For each datum, the applied load and the ground anchor head displacement is to be recorded. In addition, the load and displacement is to be recorded at the Failure Mode identified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section. It is permissible to halt the addition of load at each loading increment for up to 60 seconds to facilitate taking displacement readings. The ultimate anchor load of the ground anchor assembly and corresponding displacement is to be recorded. The pre-tension load of 500 pounds should be included in the 4725 pound ultimate anchor load test. It is permissible to interpolate between displacement and load measurements to determine the ultimate anchor load.

(I) All ground anchor assemblies must be tested to the following:
