
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3285 - MODEL MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Anchorage Against Wind
###### ยง 3285.402 Ground anchor installations.
####### Test report.

(11)The test report to support the listing or certification for each ground anchor assembly tested is to include all conditions under which the ground anchor assembly was tested, including the following:

(i) A copy of all test data accumulated during the testing.

(ii) The soil characteristics including moisture content and methods for determining soil characteristics for each type of soil for which the ground anchoring assembly was evaluated.

(iii) The model of the ground anchor assembly tested.

(iv) The ground anchor assembly test method used.

(v) Detailed drawings including all dimensions of the ground anchor assembly and its components.

(vi) Method of installation at the test site.

(vii) Date of installation and date of testing.

(viii) Location of the certification test site.

(ix) Test equipment used.

(x) For each anchor specimen tested: For each load increment the load in pounds and resultant displacements in inches in chart or graph form.

(xi) The working load design value and ultimate anchor load determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(10) of this section.

(xii) If required, a description of the stabilizer plate used in each ground anchor assembly/stabilizer plate test, including the name of the manufacturer.

(xiii) Angle(s) of pull for which the anchor has been tested.

(xiv) Embedment depth of the ground anchor assembly.

(xv) The application and orientation of the applied load.

(xvi) A description of the mode and location of failure for each ground anchor assembly tested.

(xvii) Name and signature of the nationally recognized testing agency or registered professional engineer certifying the testing and evaluation.

(xviii) The soil classification(s) for which each ground anchor assembly is certified for use and the working load design value and minimum ultimate load capacity for those soil classification(s).
