
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3286 - MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Certification of Installation in HUD-Administered States
###### ยง 3286.107 Installation in accordance with standards.
####### Compliance with installation requirements.

(a)(1) For purposes of determining installer compliance, a manufactured home that is subject to the requirements of this subpart B must be installed in accordance with:

(i) An installation design and instructions that have been provided by the manufacturer and approved by the Secretary directly or through review by the DAPIA; or

(ii) An installation design and instructions that have been prepared and certified by a professional engineer or registered architect, that have been approved by the manufacturer and the DAPIA as providing a level of protection for residents of the home that equals or exceeds the protection provided by the federal installation standards in part 3285 of this chapter.

(2) If the installation instructions do not comply with the installation standards, the manufacturer is responsible for any aspect of installation that is completed in accordance with the installation instructions and that does not comply with the installation standards.

(3) All installation work must be in conformance with accepted practices to ensure durable, livable, and safe housing, and must demonstrate acceptable workmanship reflecting, at a minimum, journeyman quality of work of the various trades.

(4) Except as set out in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all installation defects due to the work of the installer are the responsibility of the installer or retailer or manufacturer that retained the installer and must be corrected.

(5) If the manufacturer or retailer retains the installer, they are jointly and severally responsible with the installer for correcting installation defects.

(6) Installation defects must be corrected within 60 days after the date of discovery of the installation defect.
