
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3286 - MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Training of Installers in HUD-Administered States
###### ยง 3286.307 Process for obtaining trainer's qualification.
####### Proof of experience.

(b)(1) Every individual applicant for initial qualification as a trainer must submit verification of the experience required in ยง 3286.305. This verification may be in the form of statements by past or present employers or a self-certification that the applicant meets those experience requirements, but HUD may contact the applicant for additional verification at any time. The applicant must also provide to HUD employment information relevant to the applicant's experience as a trainer, including the dates and type of such employment. A trainer who is licensed, or otherwise certified, to provide manufactured home installation training in a state with a qualifying installation program may seek an exemption from the experience requirement by submitting proof of such license or other certification. An individual who applies for renewal qualification as a trainer is not required to submit additional proof of experience.

(2) An entity that seeks to be designated as a qualified trainer must provide evidence and assurance that the entity's individual trainers meet the experience requirements in ยง 3286.305.
