
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart A - Disclosure of Known Lead-Based Paint and/or Lead-Based Paint Hazards Upon Sale or Lease of Residential Property
##### ยง 35.92 Certification and acknowledgment of disclosure.
###### Seller requirements.

(a)Each contract to sell target housing shall include an attachment containing the following elements, in the language of the contract (e.g., English, Spanish):

(1) A Lead Warning Statement consisting of the following language:

(2) A statement by the seller disclosing the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being sold or indicating no knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The seller shall also provide any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.

(3) A list of any records or reports available to the seller pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing that have been provided to the purchaser. If no such records or reports are available, the seller shall so indicate.

(4) A statement by the purchaser affirming receipt of the information set out in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section and the lead hazard information pamphlet required under section 15 U.S.C. 2696.

(5) A statement by the purchaser that he/she has either:

(i) Received the opportunity to conduct the risk assessment or inspection required by ยง 35.90(a); or

(ii) Waived the opportunity.

(6) When any agent is involved in the transaction to sell target housing on behalf of the seller, a statement that:

(i) The agent has informed the seller of the seller's obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4852d; and

(ii) The agent is aware of his/her duty to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(7) The signatures of the sellers, agents, and purchasers, certifying to the accuracy of their statements, to the best of their knowledge, along with the dates of signature.
