
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart A - Disclosure of Known Lead-Based Paint and/or Lead-Based Paint Hazards Upon Sale or Lease of Residential Property
##### ยง 35.92 Certification and acknowledgment of disclosure.
###### Lessor requirements.

(b)Each contract to lease target housing shall include, as an attachment or within the contract, the following elements, in the language of the contract (e.g., English, Spanish):

(1) A Lead Warning Statement with the following language:

(2) A statement by the lessor disclosing the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being leased or indicating no knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The lessor shall also disclose any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist in the housing, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.

(3) A list of any records or reports available to the lessor pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing that have been provided to the lessee. If no such records or reports are available, the lessor shall so indicate.

(4) A statement by the lessee affirming receipt of the information set out in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section and the lead hazard information pamphlet required under 15 U.S.C. 2696.

(5) When any agent is involved in the transaction to lease target housing on behalf of the lessor, a statement that:

(i) The agent has informed the lessor of the lessor's obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4852d; and

(ii) The agent is aware of his/her duty to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(6) The signatures of the lessors, agents, and lessees certifying to the accuracy of their statements to the best of their knowledge, along with the dates of signature.
