
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3288 - MANUFACTURED HOME DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3288.1 Purpose and scope.
####### Scope,Applicability.

(b)-(1)In carrying out this purpose, it is presumed that if a manufactured home contains an alleged defect that is reported in the first year after installation and was not caused by the homeowner, then the manufacturer, retailer, or installer is responsible for the alleged defect and the dispute resolution process recognized in this part is an appropriate means for resolving disputes about responsibility for correction and repair of the alleged defect. For purposes of the dispute resolution process recognized in this part, only alleged defects reported in the first year after the first installation are covered by the process. The state where the home is sited determines whether the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program or a state program applies. Subpart A of this part establishes general provisions applicable to HUD's implementation of a dispute resolution program as required by the Act. Subpart B of this part establishes the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program that HUD will administer in any state that does not establish a program that complies with the Act and been accepted by HUD as provided in subpart D of this part. Subpart C of this part provides an Alternative Process for manufacturers, retailers, and installers who agree that a homeowner is not responsible for the alleged defect to resolve their disputes about responsibility for correction or repair outside of the HUD Mediation and Arbitration Process under subpart B. Subpart D of this part establishes the minimum requirements that must be met by a state applying to implement its own dispute resolution program that complies with the Act, and the procedure for determining whether the requirements for complying have been met. Subpart E of this part establishes special rulemaking procedures that apply to the issuance of new regulations that implement the dispute resolution requirements set forth in section 623 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 5422).
