
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3288 - MANUFACTURED HOME DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Alternative Process in HUD-Administered States
###### ยง 3288.105 Time when Alternative Process is available.

(a) The Alternative Process may be invoked after an alleged defect has been reported, pursuant to ยง 3288.15(b). However, the Alternative Process may not be invoked more than 7 days after notification of a request for dispute resolution has been received by all of the parties. The notification must be delivered by overnight delivery, commercial carrier, or fax by the screening neutral, in accordance with ยง 3288.30. If within 7 days of the receipt of notification, the Alternative Process is not initiated, the screening neutral will refer the matter to the mediator. Once the Alternative Process is invoked, neither the parties nor the homeowner may invoke the Mediation and Arbitration Process in the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program for 30 days.

(b) No particular form or format is required to provide notification for the Alternative Process, but the party or parties submitting the notification must include a statement from the parties participating in the Alternative Process stating that the homeowner is not responsible for the alleged defect and that one or more of the parties will correct or repair the defect. All required agreements are set forth in ยง 3288.110 of this part. The parties must also make reasonable efforts to include the following information in the notification:

(1) Identification of the case; and

(2) Identification of the parties participating in the Alternative Process.

(c) The screening neutral will notify the parties if the case is referred to the Alternative Process for resolution.
