
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XX - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 3288 - MANUFACTURED HOME DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - State Dispute Resolution Programs in Non-HUD Administered States
###### ยง 3288.210 Acceptance and recertification process.
####### HUD review and action.

(b)(1) HUD will review the Dispute Resolution Certification Form submitted by a state and may contact the state to request additional clarification or information as necessary. Upon completing its review, HUD will provide the state with notice of acceptance, conditional acceptance, or rejection of its dispute resolution program.

(2) A notice of acceptance will include the date of acceptance.

(3) If HUD rejects a state's dispute resolution program, HUD will provide an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance. A revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form may be submitted within 30 days of receipt of such notification. If the revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form is inadequate or if the state fails to resubmit within the 30-day period or otherwise indicates that it does not intend to change its Dispute Resolution Certification Form, HUD will notify the state that its dispute resolution program is not accepted and that it has a right to a hearing on the rejection using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter.
