
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XXV - Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
#### PART 4100 - ORGANIZATION AND CHANNELING OF FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 4100.1 Functions and activities.
###### Housing Development Strategies.

(ii)The Corporation's Housing Development Strategies program addresses the shortage of affordable, quality housing available to low to moderate income families in NHS neighborhoods, as well as the blighting effect of vacant lots and substandard properties. Home ownership opportunities are created through the planning and implementation of a variety of housing mechanisms by the NHS, which are intended to reverse negative real estate market trends, enhance new residential growth, and create renewed neighborhood pride. The mechanisms being used to achieve these goals include the following.

(A) The Owner Built Housing program is a supervised housing construction process that helps moderate-income homeowners to collectively build their own homes. The NHS provides technical assistance while private lenders and public bodies providing financing.

(B) The Owner Rehab Housing program assists low to moderate income families in collectively rehabilitating existing blighted and vacant structures.

(C) The Infill Housing program provides a mechanism for assisting NHSs in building new units on vacant land to meet the needs of prospective lower income homeowners.

(D) The Urban Subdivisions program focuses on providing low cost, new housing for low-to-moderate income families on tracts of land suitable for the construction of 20 or more units.
