
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XXV - Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
#### PART 4100 - ORGANIZATION AND CHANNELING OF FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 4100.2 General organization.
###### The Board of Directors.

(a)(1) The Corporation is under the direction of a Board of Directors composed of six members: the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board designated by the Chairman; the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System designated by the Chairman; the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the appointive member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation if so designated by the Chairman; the Comptroller of the Currency; and the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration, or a member of the Board of the National Credit Union Administration designated by the Chairman. Members of the Board serve without additional compensation. The Board elects from among its members a Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The Bylaws of the Corporation provide for the creation of an Audit Committee, and such other committees as the Board may from time to time establish.

(2) The Board holds an Annual Meeting each year during the month of May (or as the Bylaws or the Board may specify). The Board also holds regular meetings at least quarterly and special meetings as required. The meetings of the Board are conducted in accordance with provisions of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act, the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b), the Corporation's Bylaws, and when not inconsistent with the foregoing, with Robert's Rules of Order. Every portion of every meeting of the Board is open to public observation except as provided by the Government in the Sunshine Act. Interested members of the public may attend such meetings, but may not participate therein unless invited or permitted to do so by the Board.

(3) The Secretary of the Corporation, in consultation with the Corporation's General Counsel, is responsible for taking such steps as are required to ensure the Corporation's compliance with the Government in the Sunshine Act, as that Act may be amended from time to time. Consistent with this responsibility, the Secretary of the Corporation provides to the Communications Department at the principal office of the Corporation such records as the Act requires to be made available to the public for access during regular office hours on regular business days.
