
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XXV - Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
#### PART 4100 - ORGANIZATION AND CHANNELING OF FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 4100.2 General organization.
###### The Officers.

(b)(1) The officers of the Corporation are the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director, the Secretary, the Treasurer, and such other officer positions as the Board may, in consultation with the Executive Director, create. The Board elects the officers of the Corporation annually.

(2) The Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act provides that the Executive Director shall serve as the chief executive officer of the Corporation. Consistent with that authority, the Corporation's Bylaws provide that the Executive Director shall have the responsibility and authority for the day-to-day administration of the affairs of the Corporation under the general supervision of the Board. The Board periodically reviews the activities of the Executive Director and, from time to time, provides guidance and policy direction to the Executive Director in the exercise of his or her authority.

(3) The responsibilities and authorities of the other officers of the Corporation are set forth in the Corporation's Bylaws, resolutions and policies adopted by the Board, duties and authorities delegated to each officer, other statutes and this statement. (See, for example, the Government in the Sunshine Act and paragraph (a)(3) of this section for specific duties of the Secretary and General Counsel.)
