
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter XXV - Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
#### PART 4100 - ORGANIZATION AND CHANNELING OF FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 4100.4 Inquiries.
###### Requesters who are representatives of the news media.,representative of the news media,news,freelance

(iii)For purposes of this section, the termrefers to any person actively gathering information for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. In the case ofjournalists, they may be regarded as working for a news organization if they demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though not actually employed by it. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Corporation may also look at the past publication record of a requester in making this determination. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must meet the criteria above, and his or her request must not be made for a commercial use. In reference to this class of requester, a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.

(iv) All other requesters.
