
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart B - General Lead-Based Paint Requirements and Definitions for All Programs.
##### § 35.115 Exemptions.

(a) Subparts B through R of this part do not apply to the following:

(1) A residential property for which construction was completed on or after January 1, 1978, or, in the case of jurisdictions which banned the sale or residential use of lead-containing paint prior to 1978, an earlier date as HUD may designate (see § 35.160).

(2) A zero-bedroom dwelling unit, including a single room occupancy (SRO) dwelling unit.

(3) Housing for the elderly, or a residential property designated exclusively for persons with disabilities; except this exemption shall not apply if a child less than age 6 resides or is expected to reside in the dwelling unit (see definitions of "housing for the elderly" and "expected to reside" in § 35.110).

(4) Residential property found not to have lead-based paint by a lead-based paint inspection conducted in accordance with § 35.1320(a) (for more information regarding inspection procedures consult the 1997 edition of Chapter 7 of the HUD Guidelines). Results of additional test(s) by a certified lead-based paint inspector may be used to confirm or refute a prior finding.

(5) Residential property in which all lead-based paint has been identified, removed, and clearance has been achieved in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(b)(e) before September 15, 2000, or in accordance with §§ 35.1320, 35.1325 and 35.1340 on or after September 15, 2000. This exemption does not apply to residential property where enclosure or encapsulation has been used as a method of abatement.

(6) An unoccupied dwelling unit or residential property that is to be demolished, provided the dwelling unit or property will remain unoccupied until demolition.

(7) A property or part of a property that is not used and will not be used for human residential habitation, except that spaces such as entryways, hallways, corridors, passageways or stairways serving both residential and nonresidential uses in a mixed-use property shall not be exempt.

(8) Any rehabilitation that does not disturb a painted surface.

(9) For emergency actions immediately necessary to safeguard against imminent danger to human life, health or safety, or to protect property from further structural damage (such as when a property has been damaged by a natural disaster, fire, or structural collapse), occupants shall be protected from exposure to lead in dust and debris generated by such emergency actions to the extent practicable, and the requirements of subparts B through R of this part shall not apply. This exemption applies only to repairs necessary to respond to the emergency. The requirements of subparts B through R of this part shall apply to any work undertaken subsequent to, or above and beyond, such emergency actions.

(10) If a Federal law enforcement agency has seized a residential property and owns the property for less than 270 days, §§ 35.210 and 35.215 shall not apply to the property.

(11) The requirements of subpart K of this part do not apply if the assistance being provided is emergency rental assistance or foreclosure prevention assistance, provided that this exemption shall expire for a dwelling unit no later than 100 days after the initial payment or assistance.

(12) Performance of an evaluation or lead-based paint hazard reduction or lead-based paint abatement on an exterior painted surface as required under this part may be delayed for a reasonable time during a period when weather conditions are unsuitable for conventional construction activities.

(13) Where abatement of lead-based paint hazards or lead-based paint is required by this part and the property is listed or has been determined to be eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or contributing to a National Register Historic District, the designated party may, if requested by the State Historic Preservation Office, conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 instead of abatement. If interim controls are conducted, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation shall be conducted as required by the applicable subpart of this part in accordance with § 35.1355.

(b) For the purposes of subpart C of this part, each Federal agency other than HUD will determine whether appropriations are sufficient to implement this rule. If appropriations are not sufficient, subpart C of this part shall not apply to that Federal agency. If appropriations are sufficient, subpart C of this part shall apply.
