
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart B - General Lead-Based Paint Requirements and Definitions for All Programs.
##### ยง 35.125 Notice of evaluation and hazard reduction activities.
###### Notice of evaluation or presumption.

(a)When evaluation is undertaken and lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards are found to be present, or if a presumption is made that lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards are present in accordance with the options described in ยง 35.120, the designated party shall provide a notice to occupants within 15 calendar days of the date when the designated party receives the report or makes the presumption. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part. If only a visual assessment alone is required by this part, and no evaluation is performed, a notice of evaluation or presumption is not required.

(1) The notice of the evaluation shall include:

(i) A summary of the nature, dates, scope, and results of the evaluation;

(ii) A contact name, address and telephone number for more information, and to obtain access to the actual evaluation report; and

(iii) The date of the notice.

(2) The notice of presumption shall include:

(i) The nature and scope of the presumption;

(ii) A contact name, address and telephone number for more information; and

(iii) The date of the notice.
