
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart B - General Lead-Based Paint Requirements and Definitions for All Programs.
##### ยง 35.125 Notice of evaluation and hazard reduction activities.
###### Availability of notices of evaluation, presumption, and hazard reduction activities.

(c)(1) The notices of evaluation, presumption, and hazard reduction shall be of a size and type that is easily read by occupants.

(2) To the extent practicable, each notice shall be made available, upon request, in a format accessible to persons with disabilities (e.g., Braille, large type, computer disk, audio tape).

(3) Each notice shall be provided in the occupants' primary language or in the language of the occupants' contract or lease.

(4) The designated party shall provide each notice to the occupants by:

(i) Posting and maintaining it in centrally located common areas and distributing it to any dwelling unit if necessary because the head of household is a person with a known disability; or

(ii) Distributing it to each occupied dwelling unit affected by the evaluation, presumption, or hazard reduction activity or serviced by common areas in which an evaluation, presumption or hazard reduction has taken place.

(iii) However, for the protection of the privacy of the child and the child's family or guardians, no notice of environmental investigation shall be posted to any centrally located common area.
