
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart I - HUD-Owned and Mortgagee-in-Possession Multifamily Property
##### ยง 35.820 Interim controls.

HUD shall conduct interim controls in accordance with ยง 35.1330 to treat the lead-based paint hazards identified in the evaluation conducted in accordance with ยง 35.815. Interim controls are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with ยง 35.1340. Interim controls of all lead-based paint hazards shall be completed no later than the following schedule:

(a) In units occupied by families with children of less than 6 years of age and in common areas servicing those units, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the completion of the risk assessment. In units in which a child of less than 6 years of age moves in after the completion of the risk assessment, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the move-in.

(b) In all other dwelling units, common areas, and the remaining portions of the residential property, interim controls shall be completed no later than 12 months after completion of the risk assessment for those units.

(c) If conveyance of the title by HUD at a sale of a HUD-owned property or a foreclosure sale caused by HUD when HUD is mortgagee-in-possession occurs before the schedule in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, HUD shall complete interim controls before conveyance or foreclosure, or HUD shall be responsible for assuring that interim controls are carried out by the purchaser. If interim controls are made a condition of sale, such controls shall be completed according to the following schedule:

(1) In units occupied by families with children of less than 6 years of age and in common areas servicing those units, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the date of the closing of the sale. In units in which a child of less than 6 years of age moves in after the closing of the sale, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the move-in.

(2) In all other dwelling units, in common areas servicing those units, and in the remaining portions of the residential property, interim controls shall be completed no later than 180 days after the closing of the sale.
