
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart J - Rehabilitation
##### § 35.925 Examples of determining applicable requirements.

The following examples illustrate how to determine whether the requirements of §§ 35.930(b), (c), or (d) apply to a dwelling unit receiving Federal rehabilitation assistance (dollar amounts are on a per unit basis):

(a) If the total amount of Federal assistance for a dwelling is $2,000, and the hard costs of rehabilitation are $10,000, the lead-based paint requirements would be those described in § 35.930(b), because Federal rehabilitation assistance is up to and including $5,000.

(b) If the total amount of Federal assistance for a dwelling unit is $6,000, and the hard costs of rehabilitation are $2,000, the lead-based paint requirements would be those described in § 35.930(b). Although the total amount of Federal dollars is more than $5,000, only the $2,000 of that total can be applied to rehabilitation. Therefore, the Federal rehabilitation assistance is $2,000 which is not more than $5,000.

(c) If the total amount of Federal assistance for a unit is $6,000, and the hard costs of rehabilitation are $6,000, the lead-based paint requirements are those described in § 35.930(c), because the amount of Federal rehabilitation assistance is more than $5,000 but not more than $25,000.

(d) If eight dwelling units in a residential property receive Federal rehabilitation assistance [symbol c in § 35.915(c)(2)] out of a total of 10 dwelling units [d], the total Federal assistance for the rehabilitation project is $300,000 [e], the total hard costs of rehabilitation for the dwelling units are $160,000 [a], and the total hard costs of rehabilitation for the common areas and exterior surfaces are $20,000 [b], then the lead-based paint requirements would be those described in § 35.930(c), because the level of Federal rehabilitation assistance is $22,000, which is not greater than $25,000. This is calculated as follows: The total Federal assistance per assisted unit is $37,500 (e/c = $300,000/8), the per unit hard costs of rehabilitation is $22,000 (a/c + b/d = $160,000/8 + $20,000/10), and the level of Federal rehabilitation assistance is the lesser of $37,500 and $22,000.
