
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart K - Acquisition, Leasing, Support Services, or Operation
##### ยง 35.1000 Purpose and applicability.

(a) The purpose of this subpart K is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a residential property that receives Federal assistance under certain HUD programs for acquisition, leasing, support services, or operation. Acquisition, leasing, support services, and operation do not include mortgage insurance, sale of federally-owned housing, project-based or tenant-based rental assistance, rehabilitation assistance, or assistance to public housing. For requirements pertaining to those activities or types of assistance, see the applicable subpart of this part.

(b) The grantee or participating jurisdiction may assign to a subrecipient or other entity the responsibilities set forth in this subpart.

(c)(1) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to HOME funds which are committed to a specific project in accordance with ยง 92.2 of this title before September 15, 2000. Such projects shall be subject to the requirements of ยง 92.355 of this title that were in effect at the time of project commitment, or the requirements of this subpart.

(2) For purposes of the CDBG Entitlement program and the Indian Housing Block Grant program, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the State, HUD-Administered Small Cities, and Insular Areas CDBG programs, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to all covered activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which grant funding is awarded to the unit of local government by the State or HUD, as applicable, on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the Emergency Shelter Grant Program (42 U.S.C. 11371-11378) and the formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901 et. seq.), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000.

(3) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the HOPWA Program and the Supportive Housing Program (42 U.S.C. 11481-11389), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded under Notices of Funding Availability published on or after September 15, 2000.

(4) For the purposes of the Indian CDBG program (ยง 1003.607 of this title), the requirements of this subpart shall not apply to funds whose notice of funding availability is announced or funding letter is sent before September 15, 2000. Such project grantees shall be subject to the regulations in effect at the time of announcement or funding letter.
