
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart L - Public Housing Programs
##### ยง 35.1115 Evaluation.

(a) A lead-based paint inspection shall be conducted in all public housing unless a lead-based paint inspection that meets the conditions of ยง 35.165(a) has already been completed. If a lead-based paint inspection was conducted by a lead-based paint inspector who was not certified, the PHA shall review the quality of the inspection, in accordance with quality control procedures established by HUD, to determine whether the lead-based paint inspection has been properly performed and the results are reliable. Lead-based paint inspections of all housing to which this subpart applies shall be completed no later than September 15, 2000. Revisions or augmentations of prior inspections found to be of insufficient quality shall be completed no later than September 17, 2001.

(b) If a lead-based paint inspection has found the presence of lead-based paint, or if no lead-based paint inspection has been conducted, the PHA shall conduct a risk assessment according to the following schedule, unless a risk assessment that meets the conditions of ยง 35.165(b) has already been completed:

(1) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before March 15, 2001, in a multifamily residential property constructed before 1960.

(2) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before March 15, 2002, in a multifamily residential property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.

(c) A PHA that advertises a construction contract (including architecture/engineering contracts) for bid or award or plans to start force account work shall not execute such contract until a lead-based paint inspection and, if required, a risk assessment, has taken place and any necessary abatement is included in the modernization budget, except for contracts solely for emergency work in accordance with ยง 35.115(a)(9).

(d) The five-year funding request plan for CIAP and CGP shall be amended to include the schedule and funding for lead-based paint activities.
