
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart L - Public Housing Programs
##### § 35.1120 Hazard reduction.

(a) Each PHA shall, in accordance with § 35.1325, abate all lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards identified in the evaluations conducted pursuant to § 35.1115. The PHA shall abate lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 during the course of physical improvements conducted under the modernization.

(b) In all housing where abatement of all lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards required in paragraph (a) of this section has not yet occurred, each PHA shall conduct interim controls, in accordance with § 35.1330, of the lead-based paint hazards identified in the most recent risk assessment.

(1) Interim controls of dwelling units in which any child who is less than 6 years of age resides and common areas servicing those dwelling units shall be completed within 90 days of the evaluation under § 35.1330. If a unit becomes newly occupied by a family with a child of less than 6 years of age or such child moves into a unit, interim controls shall be completed within 90 days after the new occupancy or move-in if they have not already been completed.

(2) Interim controls in dwelling units not occupied by families with one or more children of less than 6 years of age, common areas servicing those units, and the remaining portions of the residential property shall be completed no later than 12 months after completion of the evaluation conducted under § 35.1115.

(c) The PHA shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities into regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355. In accordance with § 35.115(a) (6) and (7), this requirement does not apply to a development or part thereof if it is to be demolished or disposed of in accordance with disposition requirements in part 970 of this title, provided the dwelling unit will remain unoccupied until demolition, or if it is not used and will not be used for human habitation.
