
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### ยง 35.1330 Interim controls.
###### Paint stabilization.

(b)(1) Interim control treatments used to stabilize deteriorated lead-based paint shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this section. Interim control treatments of intact, factory applied prime coatings on metal surfaces are not required. Finish coatings on such surfaces shall be treated by interim controls if those coatings contain lead-based paint.

(2) Any physical defect in the substrate of a painted surface or component that is causing deterioration of the surface or component shall be repaired before treating the surface or component. Examples of defective substrate conditions include dry-rot, rust, moisture-related defects, crumbling plaster, and missing siding or other components that are not securely fastened.

(3) Before applying new paint, all loose paint and other loose material shall be removed from the surface to be treated. Acceptable methods for preparing the surface to be treated include wet scraping, wet sanding, and power sanding performed in conjunction with a HEPA filtered local exhaust attachment operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(4) Dry sanding or dry scraping is permitted only in accordance with ยง 35.140(e) (i.e., for electrical safety reasons or for specified minor amounts of work).

(5) Paint stabilization shall include the application of a new protective coating or paint. The surface substrate shall be dry and protected from future moisture damage before applying a new protective coating or paint. All protective coatings and paints shall be applied in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.

(6) Paint stabilization shall incorporate the use of safe work practices in accordance with ยง 35.1350.
