
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### ยง 35.1330 Interim controls.
###### Friction and impact surfaces.

(c)(1) Friction surfaces are required to be treated only if:

(i) Lead dust levels on the nearest horizontal surface underneath the friction surface (e.g., the window sill, window trough, or floor) are equal to or greater than the standards specified in 35.1320(b);

(ii) There is evidence that the paint surface is subject to abrasion; and

(iii) Lead-based paint is known or presumed to be present on the friction surface.

(2) Impact surfaces are required to be treated only if:

(i) Paint on an impact surface is damaged or otherwise deteriorated;

(ii) The damaged paint is caused by impact from a related building component (such as a door knob that knocks into a wall, or a door that knocks against its door frame); and

(iii) Lead-based paint is known or presumed to be present on the impact surface.

(3) Examples of building components that may contain friction or impact surfaces include the following:

(i) Window systems;

(ii) Doors;

(iii) Stair treads and risers;

(iv) Baseboards;

(v) Drawers and cabinets; and

(vi) Porches, decks, interior floors, and any other painted surfaces that are abraded, rubbed, or impacted.

(4) Interim control treatments for friction surfaces shall eliminate friction points or treat the friction surface so that paint is not subject to abrasion. Examples of acceptable treatments include rehanging and/or planing doors so that the door does not rub against the door frame, and installing window channel guides that reduce or eliminate abrasion of painted surfaces. Paint on stair treads and floors shall be protected with a durable cover or coating that will prevent abrasion of the painted surfaces. Examples of acceptable materials include carpeting, tile, and sheet flooring.

(5) Interim control treatments for impact surfaces shall protect the paint from impact. Examples of acceptable treatments include treatments that eliminate impact with the paint surface, such as a door stop to prevent a door from striking a wall or baseboard.

(6) Interim control for impact or friction surfaces does not include covering such a surface with a coating or other treatment, such as painting over the surface, that does not protect lead-based paint from impact or abrasion.
