
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### ยง 35.1330 Interim controls.
###### Dust-lead hazard control.

(e)(1) Interim control treatments used to control dust-lead hazards shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this section. Additional information on dust removal is found in the HUD Guidelines, particularly Chapter 11 (see ยง 35.1310).

(2) Dust control shall involve a thorough cleaning of all horizontal surfaces, such as interior window sills, window troughs, floors, and stairs, but excluding ceilings. All horizontal surfaces, such as floors, stairs, window sills and window troughs, that are rough, pitted, or porous shall be covered with a smooth, cleanable covering or coating, such as metal coil stock, plastic, polyurethane, or linoleum.

(3) Surfaces covered by a rug or carpeting shall be cleaned as follows:

(i) The floor surface under a rug or carpeting shall be cleaned where feasible, including upon removal of the rug or carpeting, with a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy.

(ii) An unattached rug or an attached carpet that is to be removed, and padding associated with such rug or carpet, located in an area of the dwelling unit with dust-lead hazards on the floor, shall be thoroughly vacuumed with a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy. Protective measures shall be used to prevent the spread of dust during removal of a rug, carpet or padding from the dwelling. For example, it shall be misted to reduce dust generation during removal. The item(s) being removed shall be wrapped or otherwise sealed before removal from the worksite.

(iii) An attached carpet located in an area of the dwelling unit with dust-lead hazards on the floor shall be thoroughly vacuumed with a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy if it is not to be removed.
