
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### § 35.1330 Interim controls.
###### Soil-lead hazards.

(f)(1) Interim control treatments used to control soil-lead hazards shall be performed in accordance with this section.

(2) Soil with a lead concentration equal to or greater than 5,000 µg/g of lead shall be abated in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e).

(3) Acceptable interim control methods for soil lead are impermanent surface coverings and land use controls.

(i) Impermanent surface coverings may be used to treat lead-contaminated soil if applied in accordance with the following requirements. Examples of acceptable impermanent coverings include gravel, bark, sod, and artificial turf.

(A) Impermanent surface coverings selected shall be designed to withstand the reasonably-expected traffic. For example, if the area to be treated is heavily traveled, neither grass or sod shall be used.

(B) When loose impermanent surface coverings such as bark or gravel are used, they shall be applied in a thickness not less than six inches deep.

(C) The impermanent surface covering material shall not contain more than 400 µg/g of lead.

(D) Adequate controls to prevent erosion shall be used in conjunction with impermanent surface coverings.

(ii) Land use controls may be used to reduce exposure to soil-lead hazards only if they effectively control access to areas with soil-lead hazards. Examples of land use controls include: fencing, warning signs, and landscaping.

(A) Land use controls shall be implemented only if residents have reasonable alternatives to using the area to be controlled.

(B) If land use controls are used for a soil area that is subject to erosion, measures shall be taken to contain the soil and control dispersion of lead.
