
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### ยง 35.1340 Clearance.
###### Required activities.

(2)(i) Clearance examinations shall include a visual assessment, dust sampling, submission of samples for analysis for lead in dust, interpretation of sampling results, and preparation of a report. Soil sampling is not required. Clearance examinations shall be performed in dwelling units, common areas, and exterior areas in accordance with this section and the steps set forth at 40 CFR 745.227(e)(8). If clearance is being performed after lead-based paint hazard reduction, paint stabilization, maintenance, or rehabilitation that affected exterior surfaces but did not disturb interior painted surfaces or involve elimination of an interior dust-lead hazard, interior clearance is not required if window, door, ventilation, and other openings are sealed during the exterior work. If clearance is being performed for more than 10 dwelling units of similar construction and maintenance, as in a multifamily property, random sampling for the purpose of clearance may be conducted in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e)(9).

(ii) The visual assessment shall be performed to determine if deteriorated paint surfaces and/or visible amounts of dust, debris, paint chips or other residue are still present. Both exterior and interior painted surfaces shall be examined for the presence of deteriorated paint. If deteriorated paint or visible dust, debris or residue are present in areas subject to dust sampling, they must be eliminated prior to the continuation of the clearance examination, except elimination of deteriorated paint is not required if it has been determined, through paint testing or a lead-based paint inspection, that the deteriorated paint is not lead-based paint. If exterior painted surfaces have been disturbed by the hazard reduction, maintenance or rehabilitation activity, the visual assessment shall include an assessment of the ground and any outdoor living areas close to the affected exterior painted surfaces. Visible dust or debris in living areas shall be cleaned up and visible paint chips on the ground shall be removed.

(iii) Dust samples shall be wipe samples and shall be taken on floors and, where practicable, interior window sills and window troughs. Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with ยง 35.1315 of this part.

(iv) Clearance reports shall be prepared in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
