
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### § 35.1355 Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.
###### Bare soil.

(ii)All bare soil shall be treated with standard treatments in accordance with § 35.1335(d) through (g), or interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330(a) and (f); except for any bare soil that a current evaluation has found is not a soil-lead hazard.

(4) Safe work practices, in accordance with sec. 35.1350, shall be used when performing any maintenance or renovation work that disturbs paint that may be lead-based paint.

(5) Any encapsulation or enclosure of lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards which has failed to maintain its effectiveness shall be repaired, or abatement or interim controls shall be performed in accordance with §§ 35.1325 or 35.1330, respectively.

(6) Clearance testing of the worksite shall be performed at the conclusion of repair, abatement or interim controls in accordance with § 35.1340.

(7) Each dwelling unit shall be provided with written notice asking occupants to report deteriorated paint and, if applicable, failure of encapsulation or enclosure, along with the name, address and telephone number of the person whom occupants should contact. The language of the notice shall be in accordance with § 35.125(c)(3). The designated party shall respond to such report and stabilize the deteriorated paint or repair the encapsulation or enclosure within 30 days.
