
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### § 35.1355 Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.
###### Reevaluation.

(b)Reevaluation shall be conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b), and the designated party shall conduct interim controls of lead-based paint hazards found in the reevaluation.

(1) Reevaluation shall be conducted if hazard reduction has been conducted to reduce lead-based paint hazards found in a risk assessment or if standard treatments have been conducted, except that reevaluation is not required if any of the following cases are met:

(i) An initial risk assessment found no lead-based paint hazards;

(ii) A lead-based paint inspection found no lead-based paint; or

(iii) All lead-based paint was abated in accordance with § 35.1325, provided that no failures of encapsulations or enclosures have been found during visual assessments conducted in accordance with § 35.1355(a)(2) or during other observations by maintenance and repair workers in accordance with § 35.1355(a)(5) since the encapsulations or enclosures were performed.

(2) Reevaluation shall be conducted to identify:

(i) Deteriorated paint surfaces with known or suspected lead-based paint;

(ii) Deteriorated or failed interim controls of lead-based paint hazards or encapsulation or enclosure treatments;

(iii) Dust-lead hazards; and

(iv) Soil that is newly bare with lead levels equal to or above the standards in § 35.1320(b)(2).

(3) Each reevaluation shall be performed by a certified risk assessor.

(4) Each reevaluation shall be conducted in accordance with the following schedule if a risk assessment or other evaluation has found deteriorated lead-based paint in the residential property, a soil-lead hazard, or a dust-lead hazard on a floor or interior window sill. (Window troughs are not sampled during reevaluation). The first reevaluation shall be conducted no later than two years from completion of hazard reduction. Subsequent reevaluation shall be conducted at intervals of two years, plus or minus 60 days. To be exempt from additional reevaluation, at least two consecutive reevaluations conducted at such two-year intervals must be conducted without finding lead-based paint hazards or a failure of an encapsulation or enclosure. If, however, a reevaluation finds lead-based paint hazards or a failure, at least two more consecutive reevaluations conducted at such two year intervals must be conducted without finding lead-based paint hazards or a failure.

(5) Each reevaluation shall be performed as follows:

(i) Dwelling units and common areas shall be selected and reevaluated in accordance with § 35.1320(b).

(ii) The worksites of previous hazard reduction activities that are similar on the basis of their original lead-based paint hazard and type of treatment shall be grouped. Worksites within such groups shall be selected and reevaluated in accordance with § 35.1320(b).

(6) Each reevaluation shall include reviewing available information, conducting selected visual assessment, recommending responses to hazard reduction omissions or failures, performing selected evaluation of paint, soil and dust, and recommending response to newly-found lead-based paint hazards.
