
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 35 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
#### Subpart R - Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
##### ยง 35.1355 Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.
###### Selected paint, soil and dust evaluation.

(iv)(A) The risk assessor shall sample deteriorated paint surfaces identified during the visual assessment and have the samples analyzed, in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(b)(3)(4), but only if reliable information about lead content is unavailable.

(B) The risk assessor shall evaluate new areas of bare soil identified during the visual assessment. Soil samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(d)(8)-(11), but only if the soil lead levels have not been previously measured.

(C) The risk assessor shall take selected dust samples and have them analyzed. Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with ยง 35.1320(b). At least two composite samples, one from floors and the other from interior window sills, shall be taken in each dwelling unit and common area selected. Each composite sample shall consist of four individual samples, each collected from a different room or area. If the dwelling unit contains both carpeted and uncarpeted living areas, separate floor samples are required from the carpeted and uncarpeted areas. Equivalent single-surface sampling may be used instead of composite sampling.

(7) The risk assessor shall provide the designated party with a written report documenting the presence or absence of lead-based paint hazards, the current status of any hazard reduction and standard treatment measures used previously and any newly-conducted evaluation and hazard reduction activities. The report shall include the information in 40 CFR 745.227(d)(11), and shall:

(i) Identify any lead-based paint hazards previously detected and discuss the effectiveness of any hazard reduction or standard treatment measures used, and list those for which no measures have been used.

(ii) Describe any new hazards found and present the owner with acceptable control options and their accompanying reevaluation schedules.

(iii) Identify when the next reevaluation, if any, must occur, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
