
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 41 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESSIBILITY BY THE PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED
#### ยง 41.4 Waiver or modification of standards.

(a) The applicability of standards and requirements for accessibility by the physically handicapped may be waived or modified on a case-by-case basis upon a written request from a recipient of a Departmental grant or loan or from a Departmental agency leasing a building or facility.

(b) For residential buildings or facilities, a waiver or modification may be granted only by the Secretary.

(c) Upon the recommendation of an Assistant Secretary, a waiver or modification for nonresidential buildings or facilities may be granted only by the Administrator, General Services Administration.

(d) No request for a waiver or modification shall be recommended for approval by an Assistant Secretary or approved by the Secretary unless the following criteria obtain:

(1) The granting of the waiver or modification is based upon findings of fact, and is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Architectural Barriers Act, and

(2) Application of the requirement or standard would adversely affect the purposes of the Departmental program under which the loan or grant is being provided or for which the building or facility is being leased.

(e) Requests for a waiver or modification shall be submitted to the appropriate Assistant Secretary for review. Each request shall include:

(1) The name and address of the requestor.

(2) The name and location of the involved building or facility.

(3) Any applicable plans, drawings, specifications or other descriptions of the building or facility.

(4) The standard provision or requirement from which the requestor seeks a waiver or modification.

(5) A description of the building or facility as to its accessibility for the physically handicapped and how the waiving or modification of a standard or requirement would affect that accessibility.

(6) A statement of the facts which establish that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section would be satisfied.

(7) A description of the steps taken, or to be taken, to comply with standards and requirements for which a waiver or modification is not being requested.

(8) Such other information as the requestor or the responsible Assistant Secretary deems appropriate or necessary.

(f) If the responsible Assistant Secretary finds that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section are satisfied, then he or she shall submit the request along with his or her recommendations to the Secretary for action or for referral to the Administrator, General Services Administration for action. In reviewing request for waiver and modifications, the Secretary shall assure consistent Department policy regarding the removal of architectural barriers and accessibility by physically handicapped persons.

(g) All waivers and modifications granted pursuant to this part shall have only future effect on; and are limited to cases for which the request is made.
