
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 42 - DISPLACEMENT, RELOCATION ASSISTANCE, AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR HUD AND HUD-ASSISTED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Requirements Under Section 104(d) of Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
##### ยง 42.375 One-for-one replacement of lower-income dwelling units.
###### Acceptable replacement units.

(b)Replacement lower-income dwelling units may be provided by any government agency or private developer and must meet the following requirements:

(1) The units must be located within the recipient's jurisdiction. To the extent feasible and consistent with other statutory priorities, the units shall be located within the same neighborhood as the units replaced.

(2) The units must be sufficient in number and size to house no fewer than the number of occupants who could have been housed in the units that are demolished or converted. The number of occupants who could have been housed in units shall be determined in accordance with applicable local housing occupancy codes. The recipient may not replace those units with smaller units (e.g., a 2-bedroom unit with two 1-bedroom units), unless the recipient has provided the information required under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.

(3) The units must be provided in standard condition. Replacement lower-income dwelling units may include units that have been raised to standard from substandard condition if:

(i) No person was displaced from the unit (see definition of "displaced person" in ยง 42.305); and

(ii) The unit was vacant for at least 3 months before execution of the agreement between the recipient and the property owner.

(4) The units must initially be made available for occupancy at any time during the period beginning 1 year before the recipient makes public the information required under paragraph (d) of this section and ending 3 years after the commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation related to the conversion.

(5) The units must be designed to remain lower-income dwelling units for at least 10 years from the date of initial occupancy. Replacement lower-income dwelling units may include, but are not limited to, public housing or existing housing receiving Section 8 project-based assistance.
