
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 42 - DISPLACEMENT, RELOCATION ASSISTANCE, AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR HUD AND HUD-ASSISTED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Requirements Under Section 104(d) of Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
##### ยง 42.375 One-for-one replacement of lower-income dwelling units.
###### Replacement not required.

(d)(1) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 5304(d)(3), the one-for-one replacement requirement of this section does not apply to the extent the HUD field office determines, based upon objective data, that there is an adequate supply of vacant lower-income dwelling units in standard condition available on a nondiscriminatory basis within the area.

(2) The recipient must submit directly to the HUD field office the request for determination that the one-for-one replacement requirement does not apply. Simultaneously with the submission of the request, the recipient must make the submission public and inform interested persons that they have 30 days from the date of submission to provide to HUD additional information supporting or opposing the request.

(3) A unit of general local government funded by the State must submit the request for determination under this paragraph to the State. Simultaneously with the submission of the request, the unit of general local government must make the submission public and inform interested persons that they have 30 days from the date of submission to provide to the State additional information supporting or opposing the request. If the State, after considering the submission and the additional data, agrees with the request, the State must provide its recommendation with supporting information to the field office.
