
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 50 - PROTECTION AND ENHANCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
#### Subpart A - General: Federal Laws and Authorities
##### ยง 50.3 Environmental policy.

(a) It is the policy of the Department to reject proposals which have significant adverse environmental impacts and to encourage the modification of projects in order to enhance environmental quality and minimize environmental harm.

(b) The HUD approving official shall consider environmental and other Departmental objectives in the decisionmaking process.

(c) When EA's or EIS's or reviews under ยง 50.4 reveal conditions or safeguards that should be implemented once a proposal is approved in order to protect and enhance environmental quality or minimize adverse environmental impacts, such conditions or safeguards must be included in agreements or other relevant documents.

(d) A systematic, interdisciplinary approach shall be used to assure the integrated use of the natural and social sciences and the environmental design arts in making decisions.

(e) Environmental impacts shall be evaluated on as comprehensive a scale as is practicable.

(f) HUD offices shall begin the environmental review process at the earliest possible time so that potential conflicts between program procedures and environmental requirements are identified at an early stage.

(g) Applicants for HUD assistance shall be advised of environmental requirements and consultation with governmental agencies and individuals shall take place at the earliest time feasible.
