
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
#### Subpart D - Siting of HUD Assisted Projects in Runway Clear Zones at Civil Airports and Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones at Military Airfields
##### ยง 51.305 Implementation.

(a) Projects already approved for assistance. This regulation does not apply to any project approved for assistance prior to the effective date of the regulation whether the project was actually under construction at that date or not.

(b) Acceptable data on Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones. The only Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones which will be recognized in applying this part are those provided by the airport operators and which for civil airports are defined in accordance with FAA regulations 14 CFR part 152 or for military airfields, DOD Instruction 4165.57, 32 CFR part 256. All data, including changes, related to the dimensions of Runway Clear Zones for civil airports shall be verified with the nearest FAA Airports District Office before use by HUD.

(c) Changes in Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones, and Accident Potential Zones. If changes in the Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones or Accident Potential Zones are made, the field offices shall immediately adopt these revised zones for use in reviewing proposed projects.

(d) The decision to approve projects in the Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones must be documented as part of the enviornmental assessment or, when no assessment is required, as part of the project file.
