
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 55 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
#### Subpart C - Procedures for Making Determinations on Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands
##### ยง 55.20 Decision making process.
###### Step 2.

(b)Notify the public and agencies responsible for floodplain management or wetlands protection at the earliest possible time of a proposal to consider an action in a 100-year floodplain (or a 500-year floodplain for a Critical Action) or wetland and involve the affected and interested public and agencies in the decisionmaking process.

(1) The public notices required by paragraphs (b) and (g) of this section may be combined with other project notices wherever appropriate. Notices required under this part must be bilingual if the affected public is largely non-English speaking. In addition, all notices must be published in an appropriate local printed news medium, and must be sent to federal, state, and local public agencies, organizations, and, where not otherwise covered, individuals known to be interested in the proposed action.

(2) A minimum of 15 calendar days shall be allowed for comment on the public notice.

(3) A notice under this paragraph shall state: The name, proposed location, and description of the activity; the total number of acres of floodplain or wetland involved; the related natural and beneficial functions and values of the floodplain or wetland that may be adversely affected by the proposed activity; the HUD approving official (or the Certifying Officer of the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58); and the phone number to call for information. The notice shall indicate the hours of HUD or the responsible entity's office, and any Web site at which a full description of the proposed action may be reviewed.
