
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 58 - ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR ENTITIES ASSUMING HUD ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES
#### Subpart D - Environmental Review Process: Documentation, Range of Activities, Project Aggregation and Classification
##### ยง 58.37 Environmental impact statement determinations.

(a) An EIS is required when the project is determined to have a potentially significant impact on the human environment.

(b) An EIS is required under any of the following circumstances, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) The project would provide a site or sites for, or result in the construction of, hospitals or nursing homes containing a total of 2,500 or more beds.

(2) The project would remove, demolish, convert or substantially rehabilitate 2,500 or more existing housing units (but not including rehabilitation projects categorically excluded under ยง 58.35), or would result in the construction or installation of 2,500 or more housing units, or would provide sites for 2,500 or more housing units.

(3) The project would provide enough additional water and sewer capacity to support 2,500 or more additional housing units. The project does not have to be specifically intended for residential use nor does it have to be totally new construction. If the project is designed to provide upgraded service to existing development as well as to serve new development, only that portion of the increased capacity which is intended to serve new development should be counted.

(c) If, on the basis of an EA, a responsible entity determines that the thresholds in paragraph (b) of this section are the sole reason for the EIS, the responsible entity may prepare a FONSI pursuant to 40 CFR 1501.4. In such cases, the FONSI must be made available for public review for at least 30 days before the responsible entity makes the final determination whether to prepare an EIS.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, an EIS is not required where ยง 58.53 is applicable.
