
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 75 - ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOW- AND VERY LOW-INCOME PERSONS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 75.3 Applicability.
###### Section 3 projects.,et seq.,et seq.

(2)(i) Section 3 projects means housing rehabilitation, housing construction, and other public construction projects assisted under HUD programs that provide housing and community development financial assistance when the total amount of assistance to the project exceeds a threshold of $200,000. The threshold is $100,000 where the assistance is from the Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes programs, as authorized by Sections 501 or 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 or 1701z-2), the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C 4801); and the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851). The project is the site or sites together with any building(s) and improvements located on the site(s) that are under common ownership, management, and financing.

(ii) The Secretary must update the thresholds provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section not less than once every 5 years based on a national construction cost inflation factor throughnotice not subject to public comment. When the Secretary finds it is warranted to ensure compliance with Section 3, the Secretary may adjust, regardless of the national construction cost factor, such thresholds throughnotice, subject to public comment.

(iii) The requirements in this part apply to an entire Section 3 project, regardless of whether the project is fully or partially assisted under HUD programs that provide housing and community development financial assistance.
