
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 75 - ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOW- AND VERY LOW-INCOME PERSONS
#### Subpart B - Additional Provisions for Public Housing Financial Assistance
##### ยง 75.13 Section 3 safe harbor.
###### Establishing benchmarks.

(b)(1) HUD will establish Section 3 benchmarks for Section 3 workers or Targeted Section 3 workers or both through a document published in theHUD may establish a single nationwide benchmark for Section 3 workers and a single nationwide benchmark for Targeted Section 3 workers, or may establish multiple benchmarks based on geography, the type of public housing financial assistance, or other variables. HUD will update the benchmarks through a document published in thesubject to public comment, not less frequently than once every 3 years. Such notice shall include aggregate data on labor hours and the proportion of PHAs and other recipients meeting benchmarks, as well as other metrics reported pursuant to ยง 75.15 as deemed appropriate by HUD, for the 3 most recent reporting years.

(2) In establishing the Section 3 benchmarks, HUD may consider the industry averages for labor hours worked by specific categories of workers or in different localities or regions; averages for labor hours worked by Section 3 workers and Targeted Section 3 workers as reported by recipients pursuant to this section; and any other factors HUD deems important. In establishing the Section 3 benchmarks, HUD will exclude professional services from the total number of labor hours as such hours are excluded from the total number of labor hours to be reported per ยง 75.15(a)(4).

(3) Section 3 benchmarks will consist of the following two ratios:

(i) The number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers divided by the total number of labor hours worked by all workers funded by public housing financial assistance in the PHA's or other recipient's fiscal year.

(ii) The number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers, as defined in ยง 75.11(a), divided by the total number of labor hours worked by all workers funded by public housing financial assistance in the PHA's or other recipient's fiscal year.
