
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 75 - ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOW- AND VERY LOW-INCOME PERSONS
#### Subpart B - Additional Provisions for Public Housing Financial Assistance
##### ยง 75.15 Reporting.
###### Reporting of labor hours.

(a)(1) For public housing financial assistance, PHAs and other recipients must report in a manner prescribed by HUD:

(i) The total number of labor hours worked;

(ii) The total number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers; and

(iii) The total number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers.

(2) Section 3 workers' and Targeted Section 3 workers' labor hours may be counted for five years from when their status as a Section 3 worker or Targeted Section 3 worker is established pursuant to ยง 75.31.

(3) The labor hours reported under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include the total number of labor hours worked with public housing financial assistance in the fiscal year of the PHA or other recipient, including labor hours worked by any contractors and subcontractors that the PHA or other recipient is required, or elects pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, to report.

(4) PHAs and other recipients reporting under this section, as well as contractors and subcontractors who report to PHAs and recipients, may report labor hours by Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and labor hours by Targeted Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, from professional services without including labor hours from professional services in the total number of labor hours worked under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. If a contract covers both professional services and other work and the PHA, other recipient, contractor, or subcontractor chooses not to report labor hours from professional services, the labor hours under the contract that are not from professional services must still be reported.

(5) PHAs and other recipients may report on the labor hours of the PHA, the recipient, a contractor, or a subcontractor based on the employer's good faith assessment of the labor hours of a full-time or part-time employee informed by the employer's existing salary or time and attendance based payroll systems, unless the project or activity is otherwise subject to requirements specifying time and attendance reporting.
