
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 75 - ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOW- AND VERY LOW-INCOME PERSONS
#### Subpart C - Additional Provisions for Housing and Community Development Financial Assistance
##### ยง 75.25 Reporting.
###### Reporting of labor hours.

(a)(1) For Section 3 projects, recipients must report in a manner prescribed by HUD:

(i) The total number of labor hours worked;

(ii) The total number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers; and

(iii) The total number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers.

(2) Section 3 workers' and Targeted Section 3 workers' labor hours may be counted for five years from when their status as a Section 3 worker or Targeted Section 3 worker is established pursuant to ยง 75.31.

(3) The labor hours reported under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include the total number of labor hours worked on a Section 3 project, including labor hours worked by any subrecipients, contractors and subcontractors that the recipient is required, or elects pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, to report.

(4) Recipients reporting under this section, as well as subrecipients, contractors and subcontractors who report to recipients, may report labor hours by Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and labor hours by Targeted Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, from professional services without including labor hours from professional services in the total number of labor hours worked under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. If a contract covers both professional services and other work and the recipient or contractor or subcontractor chooses not to report labor hours from professional services, the labor hours under the contract that are not from professional services must still be reported.

(5) Recipients may report their own labor hours or that of a subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor based on the employer's good faith assessment of the labor hours of a full-time or part-time employee informed by the employer's existing salary or time and attendance based payroll systems, unless the project or activity is otherwise subject to requirements specifying time and attendance reporting.
