
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 81 - THE SECRETARY OF HUD'S REGULATION OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) AND THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION (FREDDIE MAC)
#### Subpart B - Housing Goals
##### ยง 81.14 Special Affordable Housing Goal.
###### Full Credit Activities.

(e)(1) For purposes of 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1) and this paragraph (e), full credit means that each unit financed by a mortgage purchased by a GSE and meeting the requirements of this section shall count toward achievement of the Special Affordable Housing Goal for that GSE.

(2) Mortgages insured under HUD's Home Equity Conversion Mortgage ("HECM") Insurance Program, 12 U.S.C. 1715 z-20; mortgages guaranteed under the Rural Housing Service's Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program, 42 U.S.C. 1472; mortgages on properties on tribal lands insured under FHA's Section 248 program, 12 U.S.C. 1715 z-13, HUD's Section 184 program, 12 U.S.C. 1515 z-13a, or Title VI of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, 25 U.S.C. 4191-4195; meet the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(A)(i) and (ii).

(3) HUD will give full credit toward achievement of the Special Affordable Housing Goal for the activities in 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(A), provided the GSE submits documentation to HUD that supports eligibility under 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(A) for HUD's approval.

(4)(i) For purposes of determining whether a seller meets the requirement in 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(B), a seller must currently operate on its own or actively participate in an on-going, discernible, active, and verifiable program directly targeted at the origination of new mortgage loans that qualify under the Special Affordable Housing Goal.

(ii) A seller's activities must evidence a current intention or plan to reinvest the proceeds of the sale into mortgages qualifying under the Special Affordable Housing Goal, with a current commitment of resources on the part of the seller for this purpose.

(iii) A seller's actions must evidence willingness to buy qualifying loans when these loans become available in the market as part of active, on-going, sustainable efforts to ensure that additional loans that meet the goal are originated.

(iv) Actively participating in such a program includes purchasing qualifying loans from a correspondent originator, including a lender or qualified housing group, that operates an on-going program resulting in the origination of loans that meet the requirements of the goal, has a history of delivering, and currently delivers qualifying loans to the seller.

(v) The GSE must verify and monitor that the seller meets the requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv) of this section and develop any necessary mechanisms to ensure compliance with the requirements, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(vi) and (vii) of this section.

(vi) Where a seller's primary business is originating mortgages on housing that qualifies under this Special Affordable Housing Goal such seller is presumed to meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv) of this section. Sellers that are institutions that are:

(A) Regularly in the business of mortgage lending;

(B) A BIF-insured or SAIF-insured depository institution; and

(C) Subject to, and has received at least a satisfactory performance evaluation rating for
