
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 81 - THE SECRETARY OF HUD'S REGULATION OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) AND THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION (FREDDIE MAC)
#### Subpart G - Procedures for Actions and Review of Actions
##### § 81.84 Hearings.
###### Public hearings.

(h)(1) All hearings shall be open to the public, unless the ALJ determines that an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Where a party makes a timely motion to close a hearing and the ALJ denies the motion, such party may file with the Secretary within 5 working days a request for a closed hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request within 5 working days of service of such a motion. Such motions, requests, and replies are governed by § 26.38 of this title. When a request for a closed hearing has been filed with the Secretary under this paragraph (h)(1), the hearing shall be stayed until the Secretary has advised the parties and the ALJ, in writing, of the Secretary's decision on whether the hearing should be closed.

(2) Failure to file a timely motion, request or reply is deemed a waiver of any objection regarding whether the hearing will be public or closed. A party must file any motion for a closed hearing within 10 days after:

(i) Service of the notice of charges under § 81.82;

(ii) Service of the Notice of Intent to Impose Civil Money Penalt(ies) under § 81.83; or

(iii) Filing of a request for a hearing under § 81.54(b).
