
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 81 - THE SECRETARY OF HUD'S REGULATION OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) AND THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION (FREDDIE MAC)
#### Subpart I - Other Provisions
##### ยง 81.102 Verification and enforcement to ensure GSE data integrity.
###### Verification procedure and adjustment to correct errors, omissions or discrepancies in AHAR data for the immediately preceding year.

(c)(1) This paragraph (c) pertains to the GSEs' submission of year-end data. For purposes of this paragraph, "year-end data" means data that HUD receives from the GSEs related to housing goals performance in the immediately preceding year and covering data reported in the fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report and the GSE's AHAR. An "error" means a technical mistake, such as a mistake in coding or calculating data. An "omission" means a GSE's failure to count units in the denominator. A "discrepancy" means any difference between HUD's analysis of data and the analysis contained in a GSE's submission of data, including a discrepancy in goal or Special Affordable subgoal performance.

(2) If HUD finds errors, omissions or discrepancies in a GSE's year-end data submissions relative to HUD's regulations, HUD will first notify the GSE by telephone or e-mail transmission of each such error, omission or discrepancy. The GSE must respond within five working days of each such notification. HUD may, in its discretion or upon a request by a GSE within the five working day period, extend the response period for up to an additional 20 working days. Information exchanges during the five working day period following initial notification, and any subsequent extensions of time that may be granted, may be by electronic mail. Any person with delegated authority from the Secretary, or the Director of HUD's Financial Institution Regulation Division, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for issuing initial notifications regarding errors, omissions, or discrepancies; making determinations on the adequacy of responses received; approving any extensions of time permitted under this provision; and managing the data verification process.

(3) If each error, omission or discrepancy is not resolved to HUD's satisfaction during the initial five working day period from notification, and any extension period, the Secretary will notify the GSE in writing and seek clarification or additional information to correct the error, omission or discrepancy. The GSE shall have 10 working days (or such longer period as the Secretary may establish, not to exceed 30 working days) from the date of the Secretary's written notice to respond in writing to the notice. If the GSE fails to submit a written response to the Secretary within this period, or if the Secretary determines that the GSE's written response fails to correct or otherwise resolve each error, omission or discrepancy in its reported year-end data to the Secretary's satisfaction, the Secretary will determine the appropriate adjustments to the numerator and the denominator of the applicable housing goal(s) and Special Affordable subgoal(s) due to the GSE's failure to provide the Secretary with accurate submissions of data.

(4) The Secretary, or his or her designee, shall inform a GSE in writing, at least five working days prior to HUD's release of its official performance figures to the public, of HUD's determination of official goals performance figures, including any adjustments. During the five working days prior to such public release, a GSE may request, in writing, a reconsideration of HUD's final determination of its performance and must provide the basis for requesting the reconsideration. If the request is granted, the Secretary will consider the GSE's request for reconsideration of its determination of goals performance and make a final determination regarding the GSE's performance, within 10 working days of the Secretary's granting of the GSE's written request for reconsideration.

(5) Should the Secretary determine that additional enforcement action against the GSE is warranted for material errors, omissions or discrepancies with regard to a housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal, it may pursue additional remedies under paragraph (e) of this section. An error, omission or discrepancy is material if it results in an overstatement of credit for a housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal, and, without such overstatement, the GSE would have failed to meet such housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal for the immediately preceding year.
