
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Local Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.220 Action plan.
###### Program-specific requirements,CDBG.

(l)-(1)(i) A jurisdiction must describe activities planned with respect to all CDBG funds expected to be available during the program year, except that an amount generally not to exceed 10 percent of such total available CDBG funds may be excluded from the funds for which eligible activities are described if it has been identified for the contingency of cost overruns.

(ii) "CDBG funds expected to be available during the program year" includes all of the following:

(A) The CDBG origin year grant.

(B) Any program income expected to be received during the program year.

(C) Any program income amounts not included in a prior action plan.

(D) Any program income previously generated under a lump sum drawdown agreement for which a new agreement will be executed during the program year pursuant to 24 CFR 570.513(b).

(E) Proceeds from Section 108 loan guarantees that will be used during the year to address the priority needs and specific objectives identified in its strategic plan.

(F) Surplus from urban renewal settlements.

(G) Reimbursements, other than program income, made to a local account.

(H) Income from float-funded activities: The full amount of income expected to be generated by a float-funded activity must be shown, whether or not some or all of the income is expected to be received in a future program year. To assure that citizens understand the risks inherent in undertaking float-funded activities, the recipient must specify the total amount of program income expected to be received and the month(s) and year(s) that it expects the float-funded activity to generate such program income.

(iii) An "urgent needs" activity (one that is expected to qualify under ยง 570.208(c) of this title) may be included only if the jurisdiction identifies the activity in the action plan and certifies that the activity is designed to meet other community development needs having a particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community and because other financial resources are not available.

(iv) The plan shall identify the estimated amount of CDBG funds that will be used for activities that benefit persons of low- and moderate-income. The information about activities shall be in sufficient detail, including location, to allow citizens to determine the degree to which they are affected.
