
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Local Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.220 Action plan.
###### HOME.

(2)(i) The HOME program resources that the participating jurisdiction must describe in the action plan are the fiscal year HOME allocation plus the amount of program income, repayments, and recaptured funds in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account (see 24 CFR 92.500(c)(1)) at the beginning of the participating jurisdiction's program year. The jurisdiction may choose to include program income, repayments, and recaptured funds that are expected to be received during the program year if the jurisdiction plans to commit these funds during the program year.

(ii) For HOME funds, a participating jurisdiction shall describe other forms of investment that are not described in 24 CFR 92.205(b). HUD's specific written approval to the jurisdiction is required for other forms of investment, as provided in ยง 92.205(b). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under ยง 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action plan does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for other forms of investment.

(iii) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in 24 CFR 92.254. Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under ยง 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.

(iv) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by multifamily housing that is being rehabilitated with HOME funds, it must state its refinancing guidelines required under 24 CFR 92.206(b). The guidelines shall describe the conditions under which the participating jurisdictions will refinance existing debt. At minimum, the guidelines must:

(A) Demonstrate that rehabilitation is the primary eligible activity and ensure that this requirement is met by establishing a minimum level of rehabilitation per unit or a required ratio between rehabilitation and refinancing.

(B) Require a review of management practices to demonstrate that disinvestment in the property has not occurred; that the long-term needs of the project can be met; and that the feasibility of serving the targeted population over an extended affordability period can be demonstrated.

(C) State whether the new investment is being made to maintain current affordable units, create additional affordable units, or both.

(D) Specify the required period of affordability, whether it is the minimum 15 years or longer.

(E) Specify whether the investment of HOME funds may be jurisdiction-wide or limited to a specific geographic area, such as a neighborhood identified in a neighborhood revitalization strategy under 24 CFR 91.215(g) or a federally designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community.

(F) State that HOME funds cannot be used to refinance multifamily loans made or insured by any federal program, including CDBG.

(v) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for homebuyer assistance or for rehabilitation of owner-occupied single family housing and does not use the HOME affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with 24 CFR 92.254(a)(2)(iii).

(vi) The jurisdiction must describe eligible applicants (e.g., categories of eligible applicants), describe its process for soliciting and funding applications or proposals (e.g., competition, first-come first-serve) and state where detailed information may be obtained (e.g., application packages are available at the office of the jurisdiction or on the jurisdiction's Web site).

(vii) The participating jurisdiction may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the low-income population only if described in the action plan.

(A) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in 24 CFR 92.350, and the participating jurisdiction must not limit or give preferences to students.

(B) A limitation or preference may include, in addition to targeting tenant- based rental assistance to persons with special needs, as provided in 24 CFR 92.209(c)(2), limiting beneficiaries or giving preferences to such professions as police officers, teachers, or artists.

(C) The participating jurisdiction must not limit beneficiaries or give a preference to all employees of the jurisdiction.

(D) The participating jurisdiction may permit rental housing owners to limit tenants or give a preference in accordance with 24 CFR 92.253(d) only if such limitation or preference is described in the action plan.

(viii) If the participating jurisdiction will receive funding under the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) (see 24 CFR part 92, subpart M), it must include:

(A) A description of the planned use of the ADDI funds;

(B) A plan for conducting targeted outreach to residents and tenants of public and manufactured housing and to other families assisted by public housing agencies, for the purposes of ensuring that the ADDI funds are used to provide downpayment assistance for such residents, tenants, and families; and

(C) A description of the actions to be taken to ensure the suitability of families receiving ADDI funds to undertake and maintain homeownership.
