
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Local Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.220 Action plan.
###### ESG.

(4)(i) The jurisdiction must include its written standards for providing ESG assistance. The minimum requirements regarding these standards are set forth in 24 CFR 576.400(e)(1) and (e)(3).

(ii) If the Continuum of Care for the jurisdiction's area has established a centralized or coordinated assessment system that meets HUD requirements, the jurisdiction must describe that centralized or coordinated assessment system. The requirements for using a centralized or coordinated assessment system, including the exception for victim service providers, are set forth under 24 CFR 576.400(d).

(iii) The jurisdiction must identify its process for making subawards and a description of how the jurisdiction intends to make its allocation available to private nonprofit organizations (including community and faith-based organizations), and in the case of urban counties, funding to participating units of local government.

(iv) If the jurisdiction is unable to meet the homeless participation requirement in 24 CFR 576.405(a), the jurisdiction must specify its plan for reaching out to and consulting with homeless or formerly homeless individuals in considering and making policies and decisions regarding any facilities or services that receive funding under ESG.

(v) The jurisdiction must describe the performance standards for evaluating ESG activities.

(vi) The jurisdiction must describe its consultation with each Continuum of Care that serves the jurisdiction in determining how to allocate ESG funds each program year; developing the performance standards for, and evaluating the outcomes of, projects and activities assisted by ESG funds; and developing funding, policies, and procedures for the administration and operation of the HMIS.
