
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - Local Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.220 Action plan.
###### Housing Trust Fund.

(5)(i) If the jurisdiction receives HTF funds from the State under 24 CFR 93.105, the action plan must include the HTF allocation plan (consistent with the State's HTF requirements) that describes the distribution of the HTF funds, and establishes the application requirements and the criteria for selection of applications submitted by eligible recipients that meet the jurisdiction's priority housing needs. The plan must include the following:

(A) The plan must identify priority factors for funding that shall include the following: geographic distribution which is a description of the geographic areas of the State (including areas of low-income and minority concentration) in which it will direct assistance during the ensuing program year; the applicant's ability to obligate HTF funds and undertake eligible activities in a timely manner; in the case of rental housing projects, the extent to which rents for units in the project are affordable to extremely low-income families; in the case of rental housing projects, the duration of the units' affordability period; the merits of the application in meeting the priority housing needs of the jurisdiction (such as housing that is accessible to transit or employment centers, housing that includes green building and sustainable development features, and housing that serves special needs populations); the location of existing affordable housing, and the extent to which the application makes use of non-federal funding sources.

(B) The plan must include the requirement that the application contain a description of the eligible activities to be conducted with the HTF funds (as provided in 24 CFR 93.200) and contain a certification by each eligible recipient that housing units assisted with the HTF will comply with HTF requirements. The plan must also describe eligibility requirements for recipients (as defined in 24 CFR 93.2).

(C) The plan must provide for performance goals, consistent with the jurisdiction's goals established under 24 CFR 91.215(b)(2).

(D) The plan must provide the jurisdiction's rehabilitation standards, as required by 24 CFR 93.301(b).

(E) If the jurisdiction intends to use HTF funds for first-time homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in ยง 93.304(f). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under ยง 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action plan does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.

(F) If the jurisdiction intends to use HTF funds for homebuyer assistance and does not use the HTF affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with ยง 93.305.

(G) The jurisdiction may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the extremely low- or very low-income population only if described in the action plan.
