
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - State Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.320 Action plan.
###### CDBG.

(1)The action plan must set forth the State's method of distribution.

(i) The method of distribution must contain a description of all criteria used to select applications from local governments for funding, including the relative importance of the criteria, where applicable. The method of distribution must provide sufficient information so that units of general local government will be able to understand and comment on it, understand what criteria and information their application will be judged on, and be able to prepare responsive applications. The method of distribution may provide a summary of the selection criteria, provided that all criteria are summarized and the details are set forth in application manuals or other official State publications that are widely distributed to eligible applicants.

(ii) The action plan must include a description of how all CDBG resources will be allocated among funding categories and the threshold factors and grant size limits that are to be applied. The total CDBG resources to be described in the action plan include all of the following:

(A) The CDBG origin year grant.

(B) Any program income expected to be returned to the State in accordance with 24 CFR 570.489(e)(3)(i) in the program year or not included in a prior action plan, and any program income expected to be received by any State revolving fund in accordance with 24 CFR 570.489(f)(2) in the program year or not included in a prior action plan.

(C) Reimbursements, other than program income, made to a local account.

(iii) If the State intends to help nonentitlement units of general local government apply for guaranteed loan funds under 24 CFR part 570, subpart M, it must describe available guarantee amounts and how applications will be selected for assistance. If a State elects to allow units of general local government to carry out community revitalization strategies, the method of distribution shall reflect the State's process and criteria for approving local government's revitalization strategies.

(iv) If the State permits units of general local government to retain program income per 24 CFR 570.489(e)(3) or establish local revolving funds per 24 CFR 570.489(f)(1), the State must include a description of each of the local accounts including the name of the local entity administering the funds, contact information for the entity administering the funds, the amounts expected to be available during the program year, the eligible activity type(s) expected to be carried out with the program income, and the national objective(s) served with the funds.

(iv) HUD may monitor the method of distribution as part of its audit and review responsibilities, as provided in 24 CFR 570.493(a)(1), in order to determine compliance with program requirements.
