
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - State Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.320 Action plan.
###### ESG.

(3)(i) The State must either include its written standards for providing Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) assistance or describe its requirements for its subrecipients to establish and implement written standards for providing ESG assistance. The minimum requirements regarding these standards are set forth in 24 CFR 576.400(e)(2) and (e)(3).

(ii) For each area of the State in which a Continuum of Care has established a centralized or coordinated assessment system that meets HUD requirements, the State must describe that centralized or coordinated assessment system. The requirements for using a centralized or coordinated assessment system, including the exception for victim service providers, are set forth under 24 CFR 576.400(d).

(iii) The State must identify its process for making subawards and a description of how the State intends to make its allocation available to units of general local government and private nonprofit organizations, including community and faith-based organizations.

(iv) The State must describe the performance standards for evaluating ESG activities.

(v) The State must describe its consultation with each Continuum of Care in determining how to allocate ESG funds each program year; developing the performance standards for, and evaluating the outcomes of, projects and activities assisted by ESG funds; and developing funding, policies and procedures for the administration and operation of the HMIS.
