
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 91 - CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - State Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
##### ยง 91.320 Action plan.
###### Housing Trust Fund.

(5)The action plan must include the HTF allocation plan that describes the distribution of the HTF funds, and establishes the application requirements and the criteria for selection of applications submitted by eligible recipients that meet the State's priority housing needs. The plan must also establish the State's maximum per-unit development subsidy limit for housing assisted with HTF funds. If the HTF funds will be used for first-time homebuyers, it must State the guidelines for resale and recapture as required in 24 CFR 93.304. The plan must reflect the State's decision to distribute HTF funds through grants to subgrantees and/or to select applications submitted by eligible recipients. If the State is selecting applications submitted by eligible recipients, the plan must include the following:

(i) The plan must provide priority for funding based on geographic diversity (as defined by the State in the consolidated plan); the applicant's ability to obligate HTF funds and undertake eligible activities in a timely manner; in the case of rental housing projects, the extent to which the project has Federal, State, or local project-based rental assistance so that rents are affordable to extremely low-income families; in the case of rental housing projects, the duration of the units' affordability period; the merits of the application in meeting the priority housing needs of the State (such as housing that is accessible to transit or employment centers, housing that includes green building and sustainable development features, or housing that serves special needs populations); and the extent to which the application makes use of non-federal funding sources.

(ii) The plan must include the requirement that the application contain a description of the eligible activities to be conducted with the HTF funds (as provided in 24 CFR 93.200) and contain a certification by each eligible recipient that housing units assisted with the HTF will comply with HTF requirements. The plan must also describe eligibility requirements for recipients (as defined in 24 CFR 93.2).

(iii) The plan must provide for performance goals and benchmarks against which the State will measure its progress, consistent with the State's goals established under 24 CFR 91.315(b)(2).

(iv) The plan must include the State's rehabilitation standards, as required by 24 CFR 93.301(b)(1).

(v) If the State intends to use HTF funds for first-time homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in ยง 93.304(f). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under ยง 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.

(vi) If the State intends to use HTF funds for homebuyer assistance and does not use the HTF affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with ยง 93.305.

(vii) The State may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the extremely low- or very low-income population only if described in the action plan.

(A) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in 24 CFR 93.350, and the State must not limit or give preferences to students.

(B) The State may permit rental housing owners to limit tenants or give a preference in accordance with 24 CFR 93.303(d)(3) only if such limitation or preference is described in the action plan.

(viii) The plan must describe the conditions under which the State will refinance existing debt.
