
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Allocation Formula
##### Insular Areas Program
###### § 92.64 Applicability of requirements to insular areas.

(a) Insular areas are subject to the same requirements in subpart E (Program Requirements), subpart F (Project Requirements), subpart K (Program Administration), and subpart L (Performance Reviews and Sanctions) of this part as participating jurisdictions, except for the following:

(1) Subpart E (Program Requirements): Administrative costs, as described in § 92.207, are eligible costs for insular areas in an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the HOME funds provided to the insular area. The matching contribution requirements in this part do not apply.

(2) Subpart K (Program Administration):

(i) Section 92.500 (The HOME Investment Trust Fund) does not apply. HUD will establish a HOME account in the United States Treasury for each insular area and the HOME funds must be used for approved activities. A local account must be established for program income. Each insular area may use either a separate local HOME account or a subsidiary account within its general fund (or other appropriate fund) as the local HOME account. HUD will recapture HOME funds in the HOME Treasury account by the amount of:

(A) Any funds that are not committed within 24 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the insular area of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement;

(B) Any funds that are not expended within five years after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the insular area of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement; and

(C) Any penalties assessed by HUD under § 92.552.

(ii) Section 92.502 (Program disbursement and information system) applies, except that references to the HOME Investment Trust Fund mean HOME account. In addition, § 92.502(c) does not apply, and instead compliance with Treasury Circular No. 1075 (31 CFR part 205) and 2 CFR 200.305 is required.

(iii) Section 92.503 (Program income, repayments, and recaptured funds) applies, except that the funds may be retained provided the funds are used for eligible activities in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(3) Section 92.504 (Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspections) applies, except that the written agreement must ensure compliance with the requirements in this section.

(4) Section 92.508 (Recordkeeping) applies with respect to the records that relate to the requirements of this section.

(5) Section 92.509 (Performance reports) applies, except that a performance report is required for the fiscal year allocation only after completion of the approved projects funded by the allocation.

(6) Subpart L (Performance Reviews and Sanctions): Section 92.552 does not apply. Instead, § 92.65 applies.

(b) The requirements of subpart H (Other Federal Requirements) of this part apply as follows: § 92.357 Executive Order 12372 applies as written, and the requirements of the remaining sections which apply to participating jurisdictions are applicable to the insular areas.

(c) Subpart B (Allocation Formula), subpart C (Consortia; Designation and Revocation as a Participating Jurisdiction), subpart D (Submission Requirements), and subpart G (Community Housing Development Organizations) of this part do not apply.
