
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Allocation Formula
##### ยง 92.50 Formula allocation.
###### Overcrowding,Incomplete kitchen facilities,Incomplete plumbing,High rent costs

(2) Occupied rental units with at least one of four problems (overcrowding, incomplete kitchen facilities, incomplete plumbing, or high rent costs).is a condition that exists if there is more than one person per room occupying the unit.means the unit lacks a sink with running water, a range, or a refrigerator.means the unit lacks hot and cold piped water, a flush toilet, or a bathtub or shower inside the unit for the exclusive use of the occupants of the unit.occur when more than 30 percent of household income is used for rent.

(3) Rental units built before 1950 occupied by poor households.

(4) Rental units described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section multiplied by the ratio of the cost of producing housing for a jurisdiction divided by the national cost.

(5) Number of families at or below the poverty level.

(6) Population of a jurisdiction multiplied by a net per capita income (pci). To compute net pci for a jurisdiction or for the nation, the pci of a three person family at the poverty threshold is subtracted from the pci of the jurisdiction or of the nation. The index is constructed by dividing the national net pci by the net pci of a jurisdiction.
