
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Allocation Formula
##### ยง 92.50 Formula allocation.
###### Calculating formula allocations for units of general local government.

(d)(1) Initial allocation amounts for units of general local government described in paragraph (a) of this section are determined by multiplying the sum of the shares of the six factors in paragraph (c) of this section by 60 percent of the amount available under paragraph (b) of this section for formula allocation. The shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for each jurisdiction over the corresponding factor for the total for all of these units of general local government.

(2) If any of the initial amounts for such units of general local government in Puerto Rico exceeds twice the national average, on a per rental unit basis, that amount is capped at twice the national average.

(3) To determine the maximum number of units of general local government that receive a formula allocation, only one jurisdiction (the unit of general local government with the smallest allocation of HOME funds) is dropped from the pool of eligible jurisdictions on each successive recalculation, except that jurisdictions that are participating jurisdictions (other than consortia that fail to renew the membership of all of their member jurisdictions) are not dropped. Then the amount of funds available for units of general local government is redistributed to all others. This recalculation/redistribution continues until all remaining units of general local government receive an allocation of $500,000 or more or are participating jurisdictions. Only units of general local government which receive an allocation of $500,000 or more under the formula or which are participating jurisdictions will be awarded an allocation. In fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion of HOME funds, $335,000 is substituted for $500,000.
