
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Allocation Formula
##### ยง 92.50 Formula allocation.
###### Calculating formula allocations for States.

(e)(1) Forty percent of the funds available for allocation under paragraph (b) of this section are allocated to States. The allocation amounts for States are calculated by determining initial amounts for each State, based on the sum of the shares of the six factors. For 20 percent of the funds to be allocated to States, the shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for the entire State over the corresponding factor for the total for all States. For 80 percent of the funds to be allocated to States, the shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for all units of general local government within the State that do not receive a formula allocation over the corresponding factor for the total for all States.

(2) If the initial amounts for Puerto Rico (based on either or both the 80 percent of funds or 20 percent of funds calculation) exceed twice the national average, on a per rental unit basis, each amount that exceeds the national average is capped at twice the national average, and the resultant funds are reallocated to other States on a prorata basis.

(3) If the initial amounts when combined for any State are less than the $3,000,000, the allocation to that State is increased to the $3,000,000 and all other State allocations are reduced by an equal amount on a prorata basis, except that no State allocation is reduced below $3,000,000.

(4) The allocation amount for each State that has no unit of general local government within the State receiving an allocation under paragraph (d) of this section is increased by $500,000. Funds for this increase are derived from the funds available for units of general local government, in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
