
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Eligible and Prohibited Activities
###### ยง 92.206 Eligible project costs.
####### Development hard costs.

(a)The actual cost of constructing or rehabilitating housing. These costs include the following:

(1) For new construction projects, costs to meet the new construction standards in ยง 92.251;

(2) For rehabilitation, costs to meet the property standards for rehabilitation projects in ยง 92.251;

(3) For both new construction and rehabilitation projects, costs:

(i) To demolish existing structures;

(ii) To make utility connections including off-site connections from the property line to the adjacent street; and

(iii) To make improvements to the project site that are in keeping with improvements of surrounding, standard projects. Site improvements may include on-site roads and sewer and water lines necessary to the development of the project. The project site is the property, owned by the project owner, upon which the project is located.

(4) For both new construction and rehabilitation of multifamily rental housing projects, costs to construct or rehabilitate laundry and community facilities that are located within the same building as the housing and which are for the use of the project residents and their guests.

(5) Costs to make utility connections or to make improvements to the project site, in accordance with the provisions of ยง 92.206(a)(3) (ii) and (iii) are also eligible in connection with acquisition of standard housing.
