
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Eligible and Prohibited Activities
###### ยง 92.209 Tenant-based rental assistance: Eligible costs and requirements.
####### Security deposits.

(j)(1) A participating jurisdiction may use HOME funds provided for tenant-based rental assistance to provide loans or grants to very low- and low-income families for security deposits for rental of dwelling units whether or not the participating jurisdiction provides any other tenant-based rental assistance under this section.

(2) The relevant State or local definition of "security deposit" in the jurisdiction where the unit is located is applicable for the purposes of this part, except that the amount of HOME funds that may be provided for a security deposit may not exceed the equivalent of two month's rent for the unit.

(3) Only the prospective tenant may apply for HOME security deposit assistance, although the participating jurisdiction may pay the funds directly to the tenant or to the landlord.

(4) HOME funds for security deposits may be provided as a grant or as a loan. If they are provided as a loan, the loan repayments are program income to be used in accordance with ยง 92.503.

(5) Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (i) of this section are applicable to HOME security deposit assistance, except that income determinations pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and Housing Quality Standard inspections pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section are required only at the time the security deposit assistance is provided.
