
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Matching Contribution Requirement
###### ยง 92.220 Form of matching contribution.
####### Cash contributions from nonfederal sources.

(1)To be recognized as a cash contribution, funds must be contributed permanently to the HOME program (or to affordable housing not assisted with HOME funds), regardless of the form of investment provided to the project. Therefore, to receive match credit for the full amount of a loan to a HOME project, all repayment, interest, or other return on investment of the contribution must be deposited in the local account of the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund to be used for eligible HOME activities in accordance with the requirements of this part. A cash contribution to affordable housing that is not assisted with HOME funds must be contributed permanently to the project. Repayments of matching contributions in affordable housing projects, as defined in ยง 92.219(b), that are not HOME-assisted, must be made to the local account of the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund to get match credit for the full loan amount.

(i) A cash contribution may be made by the participating jurisdiction, non-Federal public entities, private entities, or individuals, except as prohibited under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. A cash contribution made to a nonprofit organization for use in a HOME project may be counted as a matching contribution.

(ii) A cash contribution may be made from program income (as defined by 2 CFR 200.80) from a Federal grant earned after the end of the award period if no Federal requirements govern the disposition of the program income. Included in this category are repayments from closed out grants under the Urban Development Action Grant Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart G) and the Housing Development Grant Program (24 CFR part 850), and from the Rental Rehabilitation Grant Program (24 CFR part 511) after all fiscal year Rental Rehabilitation grants have been closed out.

(iii) The grant equivalent of a below-market interest rate loan to the project that is not repayable to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund may be counted as a cash contribution, as follows:

(A) If the loan is made from funds borrowed by a jurisdiction or public agency or corporation the contribution is the present discounted cash value of the difference between the payments to be made on the borrowed funds and payments to be received from the loan to the project based on a discount rate equal to the interest rate on the borrowed funds.

(B) If the loan is made from funds other than funds borrowed by a jurisdiction or public agency or corporation, the contribution is the present discounted cash value of the yield foregone. In determining the yield foregone, the participating jurisdiction must use as a measure of a market rate yield one of the following, as appropriate:
