
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Matching Contribution Requirement
###### § 92.220 Form of matching contribution.
####### Donated Real Property.

(3)The value, before the HOME assistance is provided and minus any debt burden, lien, or other encumbrance, of donated land or other real property may be counted as match. The donation may be made by the participating jurisdiction, non-Federal public entities, private entities, or individuals, except as prohibited under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(i) Donated property not acquired with Federal resources is a contribution in the amount of 100% of the value.

(ii) Donated property acquired with Federal assistance may provide a partial contribution as follows. The property must be acquired with Federal assistance specifically for a HOME project (or for affordable housing that will be counted as match pursuant to § 92.219(b)(2)). The property must be acquired with the Federal assistance at demonstrably below the appraised value and must be acknowledged by the seller as a donation to affordable housing at the time of the acquisition with the Federal assistance. The amount of the contribution is the difference between the acquisition price and the appraised value at the time of acquisition with the Federal assistance. If the property is acquired with the Federal assistance by someone other than the HOME project (or affordable housing) owner, to continue to qualify as a contribution, the property must be given to the HOME project (or affordable housing) owner at a price that does not exceed the amount of the Federal assistance used to acquire the property.

(iii) Property must be appraised in conformance with established and generally recognized appraisal practice and procedures in common use by professional appraisers. Opinions of value must be based on the best available data properly analyzed and interpreted. The appraisal of land and structures must be performed by an independent, certified appraiser.

(4) The cost, not paid with Federal resources, of on-site and off-site infrastructure that the participating jurisdiction documents are directly required for HOME-assisted projects. The infrastructure must have been completed no earlier than 12 months before HOME funds are committed to the project.

(5) Proceeds from multifamily and single family affordable housing project bond financing validly issued by a State or local government, or an agency or instrumentality of a State or local government or a political subdivision of a State and repayable with revenues from the affordable housing project financed as follows:

(i) Fifty percent of the loan amount made from bond proceeds to a multifamily affordable housing project owner may qualify as match.

(ii) Twenty-five percent of the loan amount from bond proceeds made to a single-family affordable housing project owner may qualify as match.

(iii) Loans made from bond proceeds may not constitute more than 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution.

(6) The reasonable value of donated site-preparation and construction materials, not acquired with Federal resources. The value of site-preparation and construction materials is to be determined in accordance with the participating jurisdiction's cost estimate procedures.

(7) The reasonable rental value of the donated use of site preparation or construction equipment.

(8) The value of donated or voluntary labor or professional services (see § 92.354(b)) in connection with the provision of affordable housing. A single rate established by HUD shall be applicable for determining the value of unskilled labor. The value of skilled labor or professional services shall be determined by the rate that the individual or entity performing the labor or service normally charges.

(9) The value of sweat equity (see § 92.354(c)) provided to a homeownership project, under an established component of a participating jurisdiction's program, up until the time of project completion (i.e., submission of a project completion form). Such labor shall be valued at the rate established for unskilled labor at paragraph (a)(8) of this section.

(10) The direct cost of supportive services provided to families residing in HOME-assisted units during the period of affordability or receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance during the term of the tenant-based rental assistance contract. The supportive services must be necessary to facilitate independent living or be required as part of a self-sufficiency program. Examples of supportive services include: case management, mental health services, assistance with the tasks of daily living, substance abuse treatment and counseling, day care, and job training and counseling.

(11) The direct cost of homebuyer counseling services provided to families that acquire properties with HOME funds under the provisions of § 92.254(a), including ongoing counseling services provided during the period of affordability. These services may be provided as part of a homebuyer counseling program that is not specific to the HOME Program, but only the cost of services to families that complete purchases with HOME assistance may be counted as match.
