
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Matching Contribution Requirement
###### ยง 92.221 Match credit.
####### When credit is given.

(a)Contributions are credited on a fiscal year basis at the time the contribution is made, as follows:

(1) A cash contribution is credited when the funds are expended.

(2) The grant equivalent of a below-market interest rate loan is credited at the time of the loan closing.

(3) The value of state or local taxes, fees, or other charges that are normally and customarily imposed but are waived, foregone, or deferred is credited at the time the state or local government or other public or private entity officially waives, forgoes, or defers the taxes, fees, or other charges and notifies the project owner.

(4) The value of donated land or other real property is credited at the time ownership of the property is transferred to the HOME project (or affordable housing) owner.

(5) The cost of investment in infrastructure directly required for HOME-assisted projects is credited at the time funds are expended for the infrastructure or at the time the HOME funds are committed to the project if the infrastructure was completed before the commitment of HOME funds.

(6) The value of donated material is credited as match at the time it is used for affordable housing.

(7) The value of the donate use of site preparation or construction equipment is credited as match at the time the equipment is used for affordable housing.

(8) The value of donated or voluntary labor or professional services is credited at the time the work is performed.

(9) A loan made from bond proceeds under ยง 92.220(a)(5) is credited at the time of the loan closing.

(10) The direct cost of social services provided to residents of HOME-assisted units is credited at the time that the social services are provided during the period of affordability.

(11) The direct cost of homebuyer counseling services provided to families that purchase HOME-assisted units is credited at the time that the homebuyer purchases the unit or for post-purchase counseling services, at the time the counseling services are provided.
