
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Matching Contribution Requirement
###### ยง 92.221 Match credit.
####### Excess match.

(b)Contributions made in a fiscal year that exceed the participating jurisdiction's match liability for the fiscal year in which they were made may be carried over and applied to future fiscal years' match liability. Loans made from bond proceeds in excess of 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution may be carried over to subsequent fiscal years as excess match, subject to the annual 25 percent limitation.

(c) Credit for match contributions shall be assigned as follows:

(1) For HOME-assisted projects involving more than one participating jurisdiction, the participating jurisdiction that makes the match contribution may decide to retain the match credit or permit the other participating jurisdiction to claim the credit.

(2) For HOME match contributions to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted (match pursuant to ยง 92.219(b)) involving more than one participating jurisdiction, the participating jurisdiction that makes the match contribution receives the match credit.

(3) A State that provides non-Federal funds to a local participating jurisdiction to be used for a contribution to affordable housing, whether or not HOME-assisted, may take the match credit for itself or may permit the local participating jurisdiction to receive the match credit.

(d) Match credit for the development of affordable homeownership housing for sale to homebuyers. Contributions to the development of homeownership housing may be credited as a match only to the extent that the sales price of the housing is reduced by the amount of the contribution or, if the development costs exceed the fair market value of the housing, the contribution may be credited to the extent that the contributions enable the housing to be sold for less than the cost of development.
