
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Program Requirements
##### Matching Contribution Requirement
###### ยง 92.222 Reduction of matching contribution requirement.
####### Period of match reduction for fiscal distress.

(4)A 50% match reduction is effective for the fiscal year in which the fiscal distress determination is made and for the following fiscal year, except that if a severe fiscal distress determination is published in that following fiscal year, the participating jurisdiction starts a new two-year match reduction period in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(b) Reduction of match for participating jurisdictions in disaster areas. If a participating jurisdiction is located in an area in which a declaration of major disaster is made pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121-5206), the participating jurisdiction may request a reduction of its matching requirement.

(1) In determining whether to grant the request and the amount and duration of the reduction, if any, HUD must consider the fiscal impact of the disaster on the participating jurisdiction.

(i) For a local participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field office may reduce the matching requirement specified in ยง 92.218 by up to 100 percent for the fiscal year in which the declaration of major disaster is made and the following fiscal year.

(ii) For a State participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field office may reduce the matching requirement specified in ยง 92.218, by up to 100 percent for the fiscal year in which the declaration of major disaster is made and the following fiscal year with respect to any HOME funds expended in an area to which the declaration of a major disaster applies.

(2) At its discretion and upon request of the participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field Office may extend the reduction for an additional year.
