
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart H - Other Federal Requirements
##### ยง 92.354 Labor.
###### General.

(a)(1) Every contract for the construction (rehabilitation or new construction) of housing that includes 12 or more units assisted with HOME funds must contain a provision requiring the payment of not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as predetermined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 3141), to all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of any part of the housing. Such contracts must also be subject to the overtime provisions, as applicable, of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 3701).

(2) The contract for construction must contain these wage provisions if HOME funds are used for any project costs in ยง 92.206, including construction or nonconstruction costs, of housing with 12 or more HOME-assisted units. When HOME funds are only used to assist homebuyers to acquire single-family housing, and not for any other project costs, the wage provisions apply to the construction of the housing if there is a written agreement with the owner or developer of the housing that HOME funds will be used to assist homebuyers to buy the housing and the construction contract covers 12 or more housing units to be purchased with HOME assistance. The wage provisions apply to any construction contract that includes a total of 12 or more HOME-assisted units, whether one or more than one project is covered by the construction contract. Once they are determined to be applicable, the wage provisions must be contained in the construction contract so as to cover all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of the entire project, including portions other than the assisted units. Arranging multiple construction contracts within a single project for the purpose of avoiding the wage provisions is not permitted.

(3) Participating jurisdictions, contractors, subcontractors, and other participants must comply with regulations issued under these acts and with other Federal laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards, as applicable. Participating jurisdictions shall be responsible for ensuring compliance by contractors and subcontractors with labor standards described in this section. In accordance with procedures specified by HUD, participating jurisdictions shall:

(i) Ensure that bid and contract documents contain required labor standards provisions and the appropriate Department of Labor wage determinations;

(ii) Conduct on-site inspections and employee interviews;

(iii) Collect and review certified weekly payroll reports;

(iv) Correct all labor standards violations promptly;

(v) Maintain documentation of administrative and enforcement activities; and

(vi) Require certification as to compliance with the provisions of this section before making any payment under such contracts.
