
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart K - Program Administration
##### ยง 92.502 Program disbursement and information system.
###### Disbursement of HOME funds.

(c)(1) After complete project set-up information is entered into the disbursement and information system, HOME funds for the project may be drawn down from the United States Treasury account by the participating jurisdiction by electronic funds transfer. The funds will be deposited in the local account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund of the participating jurisdiction within 48 to 72 hours of the disbursement request. Any drawdown of HOME funds from the United States Treasury account is conditioned upon the provision of satisfactory information by the participating jurisdiction about the project or tenant-based rental assistance and compliance with other procedures, as specified by HUD.

(2) HOME funds drawn from the United States Treasury account must be expended for eligible costs within 15 days. Any interest earned within the 15-day period may be retained by the participating jurisdiction as HOME funds. Any funds that are drawn down and not expended for eligible costs within 15 days of the disbursement must be returned to HUD for deposit in the participating jurisdiction's United States Treasury account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund. Interest earned after 15 days belongs to the United States and must be remitted to the United States as provided in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9), except interest amounts up to $500 per year may be retained for administrative expenses.

(3) HOME funds in the local account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund must be disbursed before requests are made for HOME funds in the United States Treasury account. Beginning with the Fiscal Year 2015 allocation, the specific funds that are committed to a project will be disbursed for that project. If both funds in the local account and funds in the United States Treasury account are committed to a project, the funds in the local account must be disbursed before requests are made for HOME funds in the United States Treasury account for the project.

(4) A participating jurisdiction will be paid on an advance basis provided it complies with the requirements of this part.
