
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart K - Program Administration
##### § 92.504 Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspection.
###### Ongoing periodic inspections of HOME-assisted rental housing.

(ii)During the period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction must perform on-site inspections of HOME-assisted rental housing to determine compliance with the property standards of § 92.251 and to verify the information submitted by the owners in accordance with the requirements of § 92.252. The inspections must be in accordance with the inspection procedures that the participating jurisdiction establishes to meet the inspection requirements of § 92.251.

(A) The on-site inspections must occur within 12 months after project completion and at least once every 3 years thereafter during the period of affordability.

(B) If there are observed deficiencies for any of the inspectable items in the property standards established by the participating jurisdiction, in accordance with the inspection requirements of § 92.251, a follow-up on-site inspection to verify that deficiencies are corrected must occur within 12 months. The participating jurisdiction may establish a list of non-hazardous deficiencies for which correction can be verified by third party documentation (e.g., paid invoice for work order) rather than re-inspection. Health and safety deficiencies must be corrected immediately, in accordance with § 92.251. The participating jurisdiction must adopt a more frequent inspection schedule for properties that have been found to have health and safety deficiencies.

(C) The property owner must annually certify to the participating jurisdiction that each building and all HOME- assisted units in the project are suitable for occupancy, taking into account State and local health, safety, and other applicable codes, ordinances, and requirements, and the ongoing property standards established by the participating jurisdiction to meet the requirements of § 92.251.

(D) Inspections must be based on a statistically valid sample of units appropriate for the size of the HOME-assisted project, as set forth by HUD through notice. For projects with one-to-four HOME-assisted units, participating jurisdiction must inspect 100 percent of the HOME-assisted units and the inspectable items (site, building exterior, building systems, and common areas) for each building housing HOME-assisted units.
