
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart K - Program Administration
##### § 92.508 Recordkeeping.
###### Program records.

(2)(i) Records of the efforts to maximize participation by the private sector as required by § 92.200.

(ii) The forms of HOME assistance used in the program, including any forms of investment described in the Consolidated Plan under 24 CFR part 91 that are not identified in § 92.205(b), and which are specifically approved by HUD.

(iii) The underwriting and subsidy layering guidelines adopted in accordance with § 92.250 that support the participating jurisdiction's Consolidated Plan certification.

(iv) If existing debt is refinanced for multi-family rehabilitation projects, the refinancing guidelines established in accordance with § 92.206(b), described in the Consolidated Plan.

(v) If HOME funds are used for tenant-based rental assistance, records supporting the participating jurisdiction's Consolidated Plan certification in accordance with § 92.209(b), including documentation of the local market conditions that led to the choice of this option; written selection policies and criteria; supporting documentation for preferences for specific categories of individuals with disabilities; and records supporting the rent standard and minimum tenant contribution established in accordance with § 92.209(h).

(vi) If HOME funds are used for tenant-based rental assistance or rental housing, records evidencing that not less than 90 percent of the families receiving such rental assistance meet the income requirements of § 92.216.

(vii) If HOME funds are used for homeownership housing, the procedures used for establishing 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area in accordance with § 92.254(a)(2), in the Consolidated Plan.

(viii) If HOME funds are used for acquisition of housing for homeownership, the resale or recapture guidelines established in accordance with § 92.254(a)(5), as set forth in the Consolidated Plan.

(ix) Records demonstrating compliance with the matching requirements of § 92.218 through § 92.222 including a running log and project records documenting the type and amount of match contributions by project.

(x) Records documenting compliance with the 24 month commitment deadline of § 92.500(d).

(xi) Records demonstrating compliance with the fifteen percent CHDO set-aside requirement of § 92.300(a).

(xii) Records documenting compliance with the ten percent limitation on administrative and planning costs in accordance with § 92.207.
