
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart K - Program Administration
##### § 92.508 Recordkeeping.
###### Project records.

(3)(i) A full description of each project assisted with HOME funds, including the location (address of each unit), form of HOME assistance, and the units or tenants assisted with HOME funds.

(ii) The source and application of funds for each project, including supporting documentation in accordance with 2 CFR 200.302; and records to document the eligibility and permissibility of the project costs, including the documentation of the actual HOME-eligible development costs of each HOME-assisted unit (through allocation of costs, if permissible under § 92.205(d)) where HOME funds are used to assist less than all of the units in a multi-unit project.

(iii) Records demonstrating that each rental housing or homeownership project meets the minimum per-unit subsidy amount of § 92.205(c), the maximum per-unit subsidy amount of § 92.250(a), and the subsidy layering and underwriting evaluation adopted in accordance with § 92.250(b).

(iv) Records (e.g., inspection reports) demonstrating that each project meets the property standards of § 92.251 at project completion. In addition, during the period of affordability, records for rental projects demonstrating compliance with the property standards and financial reviews and actions pursuant to § 92.504(d).

(v) Records demonstrating that each family is income eligible in accordance with § 92.203.

(vi) Records demonstrating that each tenant-based rental assistance project meets the written tenant selection policies and criteria of § 92.209(c), including any targeting requirements, the rent reasonableness requirements of § 92.209(f), the maximum subsidy provisions of § 92.209(h), property inspection reports, and calculation of the HOME subsidy.

(vii) Records demonstrating that each rental housing project meets the affordability and income targeting requirements of § 92.252 for the required period. Records must be kept for each family assisted.

(viii) Records demonstrating that each multifamily rental housing project involving rehabilitation with refinancing complies with the refinancing guidelines established in accordance with § 92.206(b).

(ix) Records demonstrating that each lease for a tenant receiving tenant-based rental assistance and for an assisted rental housing unit complies with the tenant and participant protections of § 92.253. Records must be kept for each family.

(x) Records demonstrating that the purchase price or estimated value after rehabilitation for each homeownership housing project does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area in accordance with § 92.254(a)(2). The records must demonstrate how the estimated value was determined.

(xi) Records demonstrating that each homeownership project meets the affordability requirements of § 92.254 for the required period.

(xii) Records demonstrating that any pre-award costs charged to the HOME allocation meet the requirements of § 92.212.

(xiii) Records demonstrating that a site and neighborhood standards review was conducted for each project which includes new construction of rental housing assisted under this part to determine that the site meets the requirements of 24 CFR 983.57(e)(2) and (e)(3), in accordance with § 92.202.

(xiv) Records (written agreements) demonstrating compliance with the written agreements requirements in § 92.504.
