
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart K - Program Administration
##### § 92.508 Recordkeeping.
###### Records concerning other Federal requirements,Equal opportunity and fair housing records.

(7)-(i)(A) Data on the extent to which each racial and ethnic group and single-headed households (by gender of household head) have applied for, participated in, or benefited from, any program or activity funded in whole or in part with HOME funds.

(B) Documentation of the actions the participating jurisdiction has taken to affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151, 5.152, 91.225, 91.325, and 91.425 of this title.

(ii) Affirmative marketing and MBE/WBE records.

(A) Records demonstrating compliance with the affirmative marketing procedures and requirements of § 92.351.

(B) Documentation and data on the steps taken to implement the jurisdiction's outreach programs to minority-owned (MBE) and female-owned (WBE) businesses including data indicating the racial/ethnic or gender character of each business entity receiving a contract or subcontract of $25,000 or more paid, or to be paid, with HOME funds; the amount of the contract or subcontract, and documentation of participating jurisdiction's affirmative steps to assure that minority business and women's business enterprises have an equal opportunity to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction, and services.

(iii) Records demonstrating compliance with the environmental review requirements of § 92.352 and 24 CFR part 58, including flood insurance requirements.

(iv) Records demonstrating compliance with the requirements of § 92.353 regarding displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition, including project occupancy lists identifying the name and address of all persons occupying the real property on the date described in § 92.353(c)(2)(i)(A), moving into the property on or after the date described in § 92.353(c)(2)(i)(A), and occupying the property upon completion of the project.

(v) Records demonstrating compliance with the labor requirements of § 92.354, including contract provisions and payroll records.

(vi) Records demonstrating compliance with the lead-based paint requirements of part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, M and R of this title.

(vii) Records supporting exceptions to the conflict of interest prohibition pursuant to § 92.356.

(viii) Records demonstrating compliance with debarment and suspension requirements in 2 CFR part 2424.

(ix) Records concerning intergovernmental review, as required by § 92.357.

(x) Records of emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 92.359 pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of those requests.

(xi) Documentation of actions undertaken to meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 75 which implements section 3 of the Housing Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701u).
