
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 92 - HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
#### Subpart K - Program Administration
##### ยง 92.508 Recordkeeping.
###### Period of record retention.

(c)All records pertaining to each fiscal year of HOME funds must be retained for the most recent five year period, except as provided below.

(1) For rental housing projects, records may be retained for five years after the project completion date; except that records of individual tenant income verifications, project rents and project inspections must be retained for the most recent five year period, until five years after the affordability period terminates.

(2) For homeownership housing projects, records may be retained for five years after the project completion date, except for documents imposing recapture/resale restrictions which must be retained for five years after the affordability period terminates.

(3) For tenant-based rental assistance projects, records must be retained for five years after the period of rental assistance terminates.

(4) Written agreements must be retained for five years after the agreement terminates.

(5) Records covering displacements and acquisition must be retained for five years after the date by which all persons displaced from the property and all persons whose property is acquired for the project have received the final payment to which they are entitled in accordance with ยง 92.353.

(6) If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, monitoring, inspection or other action has been started before the expiration of the required record retention period records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the required period, whichever is later.
