
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart C - Participation and Submission Requirements; Distribution of Assistance
##### ยง 93.101 Distribution of assistance.

(a) A State may choose to be the HTF grantee to receive and administer its grant or it may choose a qualified State-designated entity to be the HTF grantee.

(b) Each grantee is responsible for distributing HTF funds throughout the State according to the State's assessment of the priority housing needs within the State, as identified in the State's approved consolidated plan.

(c) An HTF grantee may choose to directly fund projects by eligible recipients in accordance with the State's HTF allocation plan or to fund projects by eligible recipients through one or more subgrantees. An HTF subgrantee that is a unit of general local government must have a consolidated plan under 24 CFR part 91, and must include an HTF allocation plan in its consolidated plan (see 24 CFR 91.220(l)(4)), and must select projects by eligible recipients in accordance with its HTF allocation plan. Because a State has only one consolidated plan, and HTF allocation plan for an HTF subgrantee that is a State agency must be included in the State's HTF allocation plan. The grantee or subgrantee must determine that the applicant is an eligible recipient that meets the definition of "recipient" in ยง 93.2 before awarding HTF assistance.

(d) If the HTF grantee subgrants HTF funds to subgrantees, the grantee must ensure that its subgrantees comply with the requirements of this part and carry out the responsibilities of the grantee. The grantee must annually review the performance of subgrantees in accordance with 24 CFR 93.404(a).
