
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart E - Eligible and Prohibited Activities
##### ยง 93.201 Eligible project costs.
###### Related soft costs.

(d)Other reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the owner or grantee and associated with the financing, or development (or both) of new construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of housing assisted with HTF funds. These costs include, but are not limited to:

(1) Architectural, engineering, or related professional services required to prepare plans, drawings, specifications, or work write-ups. The costs may be paid if they were incurred not more than 24 months before the date that HTF funds are committed to the project and the grantee expressly permits HTF funds to be used to pay the costs in the written agreement committing the funds.

(2) Costs to process and settle the financing for a project, such as private lender origination fees, credit reports, fees for title evidence, fees for recordation and filing of legal documents, building permits, attorneys' fees, private appraisal fees and fees for an independent cost estimate, and builders' or developers' fees.

(3) Costs of a project audit, including certification of costs performed by a certified public accountant, that the grantee may require with respect to the development of the project.

(4) Costs to provide information services such as affirmative marketing and fair housing information to prospective homeowners and tenants as required by ยง 93.350.

(5) For new construction or rehabilitation, the cost of funding an initial operating deficit reserve, which is a reserve to meet any shortfall in project income during the period of project rent-up (not to exceed 18 months) and which may only be used to pay project operating expenses, scheduled payments to a replacement reserve, and debt service. Any HTF funds placed in an operating deficit reserve that remain unexpended after the period of project rent-up may be retained for project reserves if permitted by the grantee.

(6) Staff and overhead costs of the grantee directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, and inspections. For multi-unit projects, such costs must be allocated among HTF-assisted units in a reasonable manner and documented. Although these costs may be charged as project costs, these costs cannot be charged to or paid by the assisted families.

(7) For both new construction and rehabilitation, costs for the payment of impact fees that are charged for all projects within a jurisdiction.
