
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart E - Eligible and Prohibited Activities
##### ยง 93.201 Eligible project costs.
###### Operating cost assistance and operating cost assistance reserves.

(e)For HTF-assisted units for which project-based assistance is not available, when necessary and subject to the limitations in ยง 93.200(a), HTF funds may be used to pay for operating cost assistance and operating cost assistance reserves, as follows:

(1) Operating costs are costs for insurance, utilities, real property taxes, and maintenance and scheduled payments to a reserve for replacement of major systems (provided that the payments must be based on the useful life of each major system and expected replacement cost) of an HTF-assisted unit. The eligible amount of HTF funds per unit for operating cost assistance is determined based on the deficit remaining after the monthly rent payment for the HTF-assisted unit is applied to the HTF-assisted unit's share of monthly operating costs. The maximum amount of the operating cost assistance to be provided to an HTF-assisted rental project must be based on the underwriting of the project and must be specified in a written agreement between the grantee and the recipient. The written agreement may commit, from a fiscal year HTF grant, funds for operating cost assistance for a multiyear period provided that the grantee is able meet its expenditure deadline in ยง 93.400(d). The grantee may renew operating cost assistance with future fiscal year HTF grants during the affordability period and the amount must be based on the need for the operating cost assistance at the time the assistance is renewed.

(2) An operating cost assistance reserve may be funded by the grantee for HTF-assisted units in a project where the grantee determines in its underwriting of the project the reserve is necessary to ensure the project's financial feasibility. If the operating cost assistance reserve is funded with appropriated HTF funds, the allowable amount of the reserve shall not exceed the amount determined by the grantee to be necessary to provide operating cost assistance for HTF-assisted units, for a period not to exceed 5 years, based on an analysis of potential deficits remaining after the expected rent payments for the HTF-assisted unit are applied to the HTF-assisted unit's expected share of operating costs. The grantee may renew operating cost assistance reserves with future fiscal year HTF grants during the affordability period and the amount must be based on the need for the operating cost assistance reserve at the time the assistance for the reserve is renewed. If the operating cost assistance reserve is funded with non-appropriated HTF funds, the reserve may be funded for the period of affordability.
