
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart E - Eligible and Prohibited Activities
##### ยง 93.203 HTF funds and public housing.

(a) HTF funds may be used for new construction or rehabilitation of public housing units only in accordance with the following:

(1) HTF funds may be used for new construction of public housing as part of the Choice Neighborhoods (Choice) program under a HUD appropriation act or for new public housing units that have been allocated and will receive low-income housing tax credits under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42).

(2) HTF funds may be used for the rehabilitation of existing public housing units in which the public housing assistance will be converted and used at the properties under the Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) program under HUD's 2012 Appropriations Act (Pub. L. 112-55, 125 Stat. 552, approved November 18, 2011) or subsequent statutes. HTF funds may also be used for the rehabilitation of existing public housing under the Choice program, and of existing public housing units that have been allocated and will receive low-income housing tax credits under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42).

(b) The public housing units constructed using funds under this part must replace units that were removed from a public housing agency's public housing inventory as part of a Choice program grant, or as part of a mixed-financed development under section 35 of the 1937 Act. The number of replacement units cannot be more than the number of units removed from the public housing agency's inventory. The public housing units constructed or rehabilitated using funds under this part must receive Public Housing Operating Fund assistance (and may receive Public Housing Capital Fund assistance) under section 9 of the 1937 Act. These units cannot receive operating costs assistance or operating cost assistance reserves under this part.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, HTF-assisted housing may not receive Operating Fund or Capital Fund assistance under section 9 of the 1937 Act during the HTF period of affordability.

(d) Consistent with ยง 93.200(c), HTF funds may be used for affordable housing in a project that also contains public housing units, provided that the HTF funds are not used for the public housing units and HTF funds are used only for eligible costs, in accordance with this part.
