
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 5 - GENERAL HUD PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS; WAIVERS
#### Subpart C - Pet Ownership for the Elderly or Persons With Disabilities
##### General Requirements
###### ยง 5.318 Discretionary pet rules.
####### Housing programs: Maximum pet deposit.

(2)(i) Pet deposits for the following tenants shall not exceed an amount periodically fixed by HUD through notice.

(A) Tenants whose rents are subsidized (including tenants of a HUD-owned project, whose rents were subsidized before HUD acquired it) under one of the programs identified by HUD through notice.

(B) Tenants who live in a project assisted (including tenants who live in a HUD-owned project that was assisted before HUD acquired it) under one of the programs identified by HUD through notice.

(C) For all other tenants of projects for the elderly or persons with disabilities, the pet deposit shall not exceed one month's rent at the time the pet is brought onto the premises.

(ii) In establishing the maximum amount of pet deposit under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, HUD will consider factors such as:

(A) Projected, estimated expenses directly attributable to the presence of pets in the project;

(B) The ability of project owners to offset such expenses by use of security deposits or HUD-reimbursable expenses; and

(C) The low income status of tenants of projects for the elderly or persons with disabilities.

(iii) For pet deposits subject to paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the pet rules shall provide for gradual accumulation of the deposit by the pet owner through an initial payment not to exceed $50 when the pet is brought onto the premises, and subsequent monthly payments not to exceed $10 per month until the amount of the deposit is reached.

(iv) For pet deposits subject to paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, the pet rules may provide for gradual accumulation of the deposit by the pet owner.

(v) The project owner may (subject to the HUD-prescribed limits) increase the amount of the pet deposit by amending the house pet rules in accordance with ยง 5.353.

(A) For pet deposits subject to paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the house pet rules shall provide for gradual accumulation of any such increase not to exceed $10 per month for all deposit amounts that are being accumulated.

(B) [Reserved]

(vi) Any pet deposit that is established within the parameters set forth by paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be deemed reasonable for purposes of this subpart C.
