
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart G - Project Requirements
##### ยง 93.302 Qualification as affordable housing: rental housing.
###### Periods of affordability.

(d)(1) HTF-assisted units must meet the affordability requirements for not less than 30 years, beginning after project completion. The grantee may impose longer periods.

(2) The affordability requirements apply without regard to the term of any loan or mortgage, repayment of the HTF investment, or the transfer of ownership. They must be imposed by a deed restriction, covenant running with the land, an agreement restricting the use of the property, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the grantee and beneficiaries have the right to require specific performance, except that the affordability restrictions may terminate upon foreclosure or transfer in lieu of foreclosure. The affordability requirements must be recorded in accordance with State recordation laws.

(3) The grantee may use purchase options, rights of first refusal, or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure to preserve affordability.

(4) The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes the former owner or those with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains an ownership interest in the project or property.

(5) The termination of the restrictions on the project does not terminate the grantee's repayment obligation under ยง 93.403.
