
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart G - Project Requirements
##### ยง 93.303 Tenant protections and selection.
###### e.g.,

(i) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in ยง 93.350. A limitation or preference does not violate nondiscrimination requirements if the housing also receives funding from a Federal program that limits eligibility to a particular segment of the population (the Housing Opportunity for Persons With AIDS program under 24 CFR part 574), and the limit or preference is tailored to serve that segment of the population.

(ii) If a project does not receive funding from a Federal program that limits eligibility to a particular segment of the population, the project may have a limitation or preference for persons with disabilities who need services offered at a project only if:

(A) The limitation or preference is limited to the population of families (including individuals) with disabilities that significantly interfere with their ability to obtain and maintain housing;

(B) Such families will not be able to obtain or maintain themselves in housing without appropriate supportive services; and

(C) Such services cannot be provided in a nonsegregated setting. The families must not be required to accept the services offered at the project. In advertising the project, the owner may advertise the project as offering services for a particular type of disability; however, the project must be open to all otherwise eligible persons with disabilities who may benefit from the services provided in the project.

(4) Do not exclude an applicant with a voucher under the Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance: Housing Choice Voucher program (24 CFR part 982) or an applicant participating in a HOME tenant-based rental assistance program (24 CFR part 92) because of the status of the prospective tenant as a holder of such voucher or comparable HOME tenant-based assistance document.

(5) Provide for the selection of tenants from a written waiting list in the chronological order of their application, insofar as is practicable;

(6) Give prompt written notification to any rejected applicant of the grounds for any rejection; and

(7) Comply with the VAWA requirements prescribed in ยง 93.356.
