
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart G - Project Requirements
##### ยง 93.305 Qualification as affordable housing: modest housing requirements for homeownership; resale or recapture requirements.

(a) Housing that is for acquisition by a family pursuant to ยง 93.304 must be modest housing.

(1) The housing must be modest housing as follows: The housing has a purchase price for the type of single family housing that does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area for newly constructed or standard housing. The grantee must use the HTF affordable homeownership limits provided by HUD for newly constructed housing and for existing housing. HUD will provide limits for affordable newly constructed housing based on 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area using Federal Housing Administration (FHA) single family mortgage program data for newly constructed housing, with a minimum limit based on 95 percent of the U.S. median purchase price for new construction for nonmetropolitan areas. HUD will provide limits for affordable existing housing based on 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area using FHA single family mortgage program data for existing housing data and other appropriate data that are available nation-wide for sales of existing housing, with a minimum limit based on 95 percent of the state-wide nonmetropolitan area median purchase price using these data. For States with no non-metropolitan areas, the minimum purchase price is defined as the lesser of the State non-metro or the United States non-metro median.

(2) In lieu of the limits provided by HUD, the grantee may determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price for single family housing in the jurisdiction annually, as follows: The grantee must set forth the price for different types of single family housing for the jurisdiction. The grantee may determine separate limits for existing housing and newly constructed housing. For housing located outside of metropolitan areas, a grantee may aggregate sales data from more than one county, if the counties are contiguous and similarly situated. The following information must be included in the annual action plan of the consolidated plan submitted to HUD for review and updated in each action plan:

(i) The 95 percent of median area purchase price must be established in accordance with a market analysis that ensured that a sufficient number of recent housing sales are included in the survey.

(ii) Sales must cover the requisite number of months based on volume: For 500 or more sales per month, a one- month reporting period; for 250 through 499 sales per month, a 2-month reporting period; for less than 250 sales per month, at least a 3-month reporting period. The data must be listed in ascending order of sales price.

(iii) The address of the listed properties must include the location within the grantee. Lot, square, and subdivision data may be substituted for the street address.

(iv) The housing sales data must reflect all, or nearly all, of the one- family house sales in the entire area.

(v) To determine the median, take the middle sale on the list if an odd number of sales, and if an even number, take the higher of the middle numbers and consider it the median. After identifying the median sales price, the amount should be multiplied by 0.95 to determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price.
