
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart G - Project Requirements
##### ยง 93.305 Qualification as affordable housing: modest housing requirements for homeownership; resale or recapture requirements.
###### Resale.

(1)Resale requirements must ensure, if the housing does not continue to be the principal residence of the family for the duration of the period of affordability, that the housing is made available for subsequent purchase only to a buyer whose family qualifies as a very low-income family and will use the property as the family's principal residence. The resale requirement must also ensure that the price at resale provides the original HTF-assisted owner a fair return on investment (including the homeowner's investment and any capital improvement) and ensure that the housing will remain affordable to a reasonable range of income-eligible homebuyers. The grantee must specifically define "fair return on investment" and "affordability to a reasonable range of very low-income homebuyers," and specifically address how it will make the housing affordable to an income eligible homebuyer in the event that the resale price necessary to provide fair return is not affordable to the subsequent buyer. Deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other mechanisms approved by HUD must be used as the mechanism to impose the resale requirements. The affordability restrictions may terminate upon occurrence of any of the following termination events: foreclosure, transfer in lieu of foreclosure, or assignment of an FHA insured mortgage to HUD. The grantee may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure to preserve affordability. The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the termination event, obtains an ownership interest in the housing.
