
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart G - Project Requirements
##### ยง 93.305 Qualification as affordable housing: modest housing requirements for homeownership; resale or recapture requirements.
###### Recapture.

(2)(i) Recapture provisions must ensure that the grantee recoups all or a portion of the HTF assistance to the homebuyers, if the housing does not continue to be the principal residence of the family for the duration of the period of affordability. The grantee may structure its recapture provisions based on its program design and market conditions. Recapture provisions may permit the subsequent homebuyer to assume the HTF assistance (subject to the HTF requirements for the remainder of the period of affordability) if the subsequent homebuyer is income-eligible, and no additional HTF assistance is provided.

(ii) The following options for recapture requirements are acceptable to HUD. The grantee may adopt, modify, or develop its own recapture requirements for HUD approval. In establishing its recapture requirements, the grantee is subject to the limitation that, when the recapture requirement is triggered by a sale (voluntary or involuntary) of the housing unit, the amount recaptured cannot exceed the net proceeds, if any. The net proceeds are the sales price minus superior loan repayment (other than HTF funds) and any closing costs.
