
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 5 - GENERAL HUD PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS; WAIVERS
#### Subpart C - Pet Ownership for the Elderly or Persons With Disabilities
##### Pet Ownership Requirements for Housing Programs
###### ยง 5.350 Mandatory pet rules for housing programs.
####### Registration.

(d)(1) The pet rules shall require pet owners to register their pets with the project owner. The pet owner must register the pet before it is brought onto the project premises, and must update the registration at least annually. The project owner may coordinate the annual update with the annual reexamination of tenant income, if applicable. The registration must include:

(i) A certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian or a State or local authority empowered to inoculate animals (or designated agent of such an authority) stating that the pet has received all inoculations required by applicable State and local law;

(ii) Information sufficient to identify the pet and to demonstrate that it is a common household pet; and

(iii) The name, address, and phone number of one or more responsible parties who will care for the pet if the pet owner dies, is incapacitated, or is otherwise unable to care for the pet.

(2) The project owner may require the pet owner to provide additional information necessary to ensure compliance with any discretionary rules prescribed under ยง 5.318, and shall require the pet owner to sign a statement indicating that he or she has read the pet rules and agrees to comply with them.

(3) The pet rules shall permit the project owner to refuse to register a pet if:

(i) The pet is not a common household pet;

(ii) The keeping of the pet would violate any applicable house pet rule;

(iii) The pet owner fails to provide complete pet registration information or fails annually to update the pet registration; or

(iv) The project owner reasonably determines, based on the pet owner's habits and practices, that the pet owner will be unable to keep the pet in compliance with the pet rules and other lease obligations. The pet's temperament may be considered as a factor in determining the prospective pet owner's ability to comply with the pet rules and other lease obligations.

(4) The project owner may not refuse to register a pet based on a determination that the pet owner is financially unable to care for the pet or that the pet is inappropriate, based on the therapeutic value to the pet owner or the interests of the property or existing tenants.

(5) The pet rules shall require the project owner to notify the pet owner if the project owner refuses to register a pet. The notice shall state the basis for the project owner's action and shall be served on the pet owner in accordance with the requirements of ยง 5.353(f)(1)(i) or (ii). The notice of refusal to register a pet may be combined with a notice of pet violation as required in ยง 5.356.
