
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart I - Program Administration
##### § 93.404 Grantee responsibilities; written agreements; onsite inspections; financial oversight.
###### Period of affordability.

(2)(i) During the period of affordability, the grantee must perform onsite inspections of HTF-assisted rental housing buildings to determine compliance with the ongoing property standards of § 93.301 and to verify the information submitted by the owners in accordance with the requirements of § 93.302. The inspections must be in accordance with the inspection procedures that the grantee establishes to meet the inspection requirements of § 93.301.

(ii) The onsite inspections must occur 12 months after project completion and at least once every 3 years thereafter during the period of affordability.

(iii) If there are observed deficiencies for any of the inspectable items established by the grantee, in accordance with the inspection requirements of § 93.301, a follow-up onsite inspection must occur within 12 months, or within a reasonable time frame established by the grantee depending on the severity of the deficiency, to verify that all observed deficiencies have been corrected. The grantee may establish a list of non-hazardous deficiencies for which correction can be verified by third party documentation rather than reinspection. The grantee must adopt a more frequent inspection schedule for properties that have been found to have health and safety violations. Life-threatening health and safety deficiencies must be corrected immediately, in accordance with § 93.301.

(iv) The property owner must annually certify to the grantee that each building in the project is suitable for occupancy, taking into account State and local health, safety, and other applicable codes, ordinances, and requirements, and the ongoing property standards established by the grantee to meet the requirements of § 93.301.

(v) Inspections must be based on a statistically valid sample of units appropriate for the size of the HTF-assisted project, as set forth by HUD through notice. The grantee must select the sample. For projects with one to four HTF-assisted units, the inspectable items (site, building exterior, building systems, and common areas) for each building with HTF-assisted units and 100 percent of the HTF-assisted dwelling units must be inspected.
