
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart I - Program Administration
##### § 93.407 Recordkeeping.
###### e.g.,

(iv) Records (inspection reports) demonstrating that each project meets the property standards of § 93.301 of this part at project completion. In addition, during the period of affordability, records for rental projects demonstrating compliance with the property standards, and financial reviews and actions pursuant to § 93.404(a).

(v) Records demonstrating that each family is income-eligible.

(vi) Records demonstrating that each rental housing project meets the affordability and income targeting requirements of § 93.302 for the required period. Records must be kept for each family assisted.

(vii) Records demonstrating that each lease for an assisted rental housing unit complies with the tenant and participant protections of § 93.303. Records must be kept for each family assisted.

(viii) Records demonstrating that the purchase price for each housing unit for a first-time homebuyer does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area, in accordance with § 93.305.

(ix) Records demonstrating that each housing unit for a first-time homebuyer meets the affordability requirements of § 93.304 for the required period.

(x) Records demonstrating that a site and neighborhood standards review was conducted for each project that included new construction of rental housing assisted under this part, to determine that the site meets the requirements of § 93.150.

(xi) Records (written agreements) demonstrating compliance with the written agreements requirements in § 93.404.
