
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 93 - HOUSING TRUST FUND
#### Subpart I - Program Administration
##### ยง 93.407 Recordkeeping.
###### Period of record retention.

(b)All records pertaining to each fiscal year of HTF funds must be retained in a secure location for the most recent 5-year period, except as provided below.

(1) For rental housing projects, records may be retained for 5 years after the project completion date, except that records of individual tenant income verifications, project rents, and project inspections must be retained for the most recent 5-year period, until 5 years after the affordability period terminates.

(2) For homeownership housing projects, records may be retained for 5 years after the project completion date, except for documents imposing resale or recapture restrictions that must be retained for 5 years after the affordability period terminates.

(3) Written agreements must be retained for 5 years after the agreement terminates.

(4) Records covering displacements and acquisitions must be retained for 5 years after the date by which all persons displaced from the property and all persons whose property is acquired for the project have received the final payment to which they are entitled, in accordance with ยง 93.352.

(5) If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, monitoring, inspection, or other action has been started before the expiration of the required record retention period, records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all issues that arise from it, or until the end of the required period, whichever is later.
