
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 100 - DISCRIMINATORY CONDUCT UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING ACT
##### Subpart D - Prohibition Against Discrimination Because of Handicap
###### ยง 100.205 Design and construction requirements.
####### http://www.iccsafe.org

(x) 2018 International Building Code, published by ICC (), and interpreted in accordance with the relevant 2018 IBC Commentary.

(3) HUD may propose safe harbors bynotification that provides for a minimum of 30 days public comment period. HUD will publish a final notification announcing safe harbors after considering public comments. Compliance with safe harbors established bynotification will satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.

(f) Compliance with a duly enacted law of a State or unit of general local government that includes the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.

(g)(1) It is the policy of HUD to encourage States and units of general local government to include, in their existing procedures for the review and approval of newly constructed covered multifamily dwellings, determinations as to whether the design and construction of such dwellings are consistent with paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.

(2) A State or unit of general local government may review and approve newly constructed multifamily dwellings for the purpose of making determinations as to whether the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section are met.

(h) Determinations of compliance or noncompliance by a State or a unit of general local government under paragraph (f) or (g) of this section are not conclusive in enforcement proceedings under the Fair Housing Amendments Act.

(i) This subpart does not invalidate or limit any law of a State or political subdivision of a State that requires dwellings to be designed and constructed in a manner that affords handicapped persons greater access than is required by this subpart.
