
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 100 - DISCRIMINATORY CONDUCT UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING ACT
##### Subpart E - Housing for Older Persons
###### ยง 100.308 Good faith defense against civil money damages.

(a) A person shall not be held personally liable for monetary damages for discriminating on the basis of familial status, if the person acted with the good faith belief that the housing facility or community qualified for a housing for older persons exemption under this subpart.

(b)(1) A person claiming the good faith belief defense must have actual knowledge that the housing facility or community has, through an authorized representative, asserted in writing that it qualifies for a housing for older persons exemption.

(2) Before the date on which the discrimination is claimed to have occurred, a community or facility, through its authorized representatives, must certify, in writing and under oath or affirmation, to the person subsequently claiming the defense that it complies with the requirements for such an exemption as housing for persons 55 years of age or older in order for such person to claim the defense.

(3) For purposes of this section, an authorized representative of a housing facility or community means the individual, committee, management company, owner, or other entity having the responsibility for adherence to the requirements established by this subpart.

(4) For purposes of this section, a person means a natural person.

(5) A person shall not be entitled to the good faith defense if the person has actual knowledge that the housing facility or community does not, or will not, qualify as housing for persons 55 years of age or older. Such a person will be ineligible for the good faith defense regardless of whether the person received the written assurance described in paragraph (b) of this section.
