
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 5 - GENERAL HUD PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS; WAIVERS
#### Subpart C - Pet Ownership for the Elderly or Persons With Disabilities
##### Pet Ownership Requirements for Housing Programs
###### ยง 5.360 Housing programs: Additional lease provisions.
####### Emergencies.

(b)(1) If there is no State or local authority (or designated agent of such an authority) authorized under applicable State or local law to remove a pet that becomes vicious, displays symptoms of severe illness, or demonstrates other behavior that constitutes an immediate threat to the health or safety of the tenancy as a whole, the project owner may place a provision in tenant leases permitting the project owner to enter the premises (if necessary), remove the pet, and take such action with respect to the pet as may be permissible under State and local law, which may include placing it in a facility that will provide care and shelter for a period not to exceed 30 days.

(2) The lease shall permit the project owner to enter the premises and remove the pet or take such other permissible action only if the project owner requests the pet owner to remove the pet from the project immediately, and the pet owner refuses to do so, or if the project owner is unable to contact the pet owner to make a removal request. The lease may not contain a provision relieving the project owner from liability for wrongful removal of a pet. The cost of the animal care facility shall be paid as provided in ยง 5.363.

(3) The project owner may place a provision in tenant leases permitting the project owner to enter the premises, remove the pet, and place the pet in a facility that will provide care and shelter, in accordance with the provisions of ยง 5.363. The lease may not contain a provision relieving the project owner from liability for wrongful removal of a pet.
