
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 103 - FAIR HOUSING - COMPLAINT PROCESSING
##### Subpart C - Referral of Complaints to State and Local Agencies
###### ยง 103.115 Notification upon reactivation.

(a) Whenever a complaint referred to a State or local fair housing agency under ยง 103.100 is reactivated under ยง 103.110, the Assistant Secretary will notify the substantially equivalent State or local agency, the aggrieved person and the respondent of HUD's reactivation. The notification will be made by certified mail or personal service.

(b) The notification to the respondent and the aggrieved person will:

(1) Advise the aggrieved person and the respondent of the time limits applicable to complaint processing and the procedural rights and obligations of the aggrieved person and the respondent under this part and part 180.

(2) State that HUD will process the complaint under the Fair Housing Act and that the State or local agency to which the complaint was referred may continue to process the complaint under State or local law.

(3) Advise the aggrieved person and the respondent of the aggrieved person's right to commence a civil action under section 813 of the Fair Housing Act in an appropriate United States District Court, not later than two years after the occurrence or termination of the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The notice will state that the computation of this two-year period excludes any time during which a proceeding is pending under this part or part 180 with respect to a complaint or charge based on the alleged discriminatory housing practice under part 180. The notices will also state that the time period includes the time during which an action arising from a breach of conciliation agreement under section 814(b)(2) of the Fair Housing Act is pending.
