
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 107 - NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN HOUSING UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 11063
##### ยง 107.50 Compliance reviews.

(a) Compliance reviews shall be conducted by the Director of the Office of Regional FH&EO or a designee. Complaints alleging a violation(s) of this part or information ascertained in the absence of a complaint indicating apparent failure to comply with this part shall be referred immediately to the Director of the Office of Regional FH&EO. The Regional Director of the Office having jurisdiction over the programs involved and the Area Manager shall be notified of all alleged violations of the regulations. A complaint is not a prerequisite for the initiation of compliance review.

(b) The purpose of a compliance review is to determine whether the respondent is in compliance with the Executive order and this part. Where allegations may also indicate a violation of the provisions of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, HUD regulations issued thereunder and Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing requirements, a review may be undertaken to determine compliance with those requirements. The respondent shall be given at least five (5) days notice of the time set for any compliance review and the place or places for such review. The complainant shall also be notified of the compliance review.
