
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 108 - COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES FOR AFFIRMATIVE FAIR HOUSING MARKETING
##### ยง 108.40 Compliance reviews.
###### Nature of compliance reviews.

(c)The purpose of a compliance review is to determine whether the applicant is in compliance with the Department's AFHM requirements and the applicant's approved AFHM plan. Where allegations under this part may also constitute a violation of the provisions of Executive Order 11063 or title VIII, the review will also determine compliance with the requirements thereof. The applicant shall be given at least five (5) days notice of the time set for any compliance review and the place or places for such review. The compliance review will cover the following areas:

(1) Applicant's sales and rental practices, including practices in soliciting buyers and tenants, determining eligibility, selecting and rejecting buyers and renters, and in concluding sales and rental transactions.

(2) Programs to attract minority and majority buyers and renters regardless of sex, including:

(i) Use of advertising media, brochures, and pamphlets;

(ii) Conformance with both the Department's Fair Housing Poster Regulation (24 CFR part 110) and the Advertising Guidelines for Fair Housing (37 FR 6700) and any revisions thereto.

(3) Data relating to:

(i) The size and location of units;

(ii) Services provided;

(iii) Sales and/or rental price ranges;

(iv) The race and sex of buyers and/or renters;

(v) Race and sex of staff engaged in sale or rental of dwellings.

(4) Other matters relating to the marketing or sales of dwellings under HUD affirmative marketing requirements, the AFMH Plan and this part.
