
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 115 - CERTIFICATION AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL FAIR HOUSING ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
##### Subpart B - Certification of Substantially Equivalent Agencies
###### ยง 115.202 Request for interim certification.

(a) A request for interim certification under this subpart shall be filed with the Assistant Secretary by the state or local official having principal responsibility for the administration of the state or local fair housing law. The request shall be supported by the text of the jurisdiction's fair housing law, the law creating and empowering the agency, all laws referenced in the jurisdiction's fair housing law, any regulations and directives issued under the law, and any formal opinions of the State Attorney General or the chief legal officer of the jurisdiction that pertain to the jurisdiction's fair housing law. A request shall also include organizational information of the agency responsible for administering and enforcing the law.

(b) The request and supporting materials shall be filed with the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410-2000. The Assistant Secretary shall forward a copy of the request and supporting materials to the appropriate FHEO regional director. A copy of the request and supporting materials will be kept available for public examination and copying at:

(1) The office of the Assistant Secretary; and

(2) The office of the state or local agency charged with administration and enforcement of the state or local fair housing law.

(c) Upon receipt of a request, HUD will analyze the agency's fair housing law to determine whether it meets the criteria identified in ยง 115.204.

(d) HUD shall review a request for interim certification from a local agency located in a state with an interim certified or certified substantially equivalent state agency. However, in the request for interim certification, the local agency must certify that the substantially equivalent state law does not prohibit the local agency from administering and enforcing its own fair housing law within the locality.
