
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 115 - CERTIFICATION AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL FAIR HOUSING ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
##### Subpart B - Certification of Substantially Equivalent Agencies
###### ยง 115.208 Procedures for renewal of certification.

(a) If the Assistant Secretary affirmatively concludes that the agency's law and performance have complied with the requirements of this part in each of the five years of certification, the Assistant Secretary may renew the certification of the agency.

(b) In determining whether to renew the certification of an agency, the Assistant Secretary's review may include, but is not limited to:

(1) Performance assessments of the agency conducted by the Department during the five years of certification;

(2) The agency's own certification that the state or local fair housing law continues to be substantially equivalent both "on its face" and "in operation;" (i.e., there have been no amendments to the state or local fair housing law, adoption of rules or procedures concerning the fair housing law, or judicial or other authoritative interpretations of the fair housing law that limit the effectiveness of the agency's fair housing law); and

(3) Any and all public comments regarding the relevant state and local laws and the performance of the agency in enforcing the law.

(c) If the Assistant Secretary decides to renew an agency's certification, the Assistant Secretary will offer the agency either a new MOU or an Addendum to the Memorandum of Understanding (addendum). The new MOU or addendum will extend and update the MOU between HUD and the agency.

(d) The new MOU or addendum, when signed by all appropriate signatories, will result in the agency's certification being renewed for five years from the date on which the previous MOU was to expire. Appropriate signatories include the Assistant Secretary, the FHEO regional director, and the authorized employee(s) of the agency.

(e) The provisions of this section may be applied to an agency that has an expired MOU or an expired addendum.
