
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 115 - CERTIFICATION AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL FAIR HOUSING ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
##### Subpart B - Certification of Substantially Equivalent Agencies
###### ยง 115.210 Performance deficiency procedures; Suspension; Withdrawal.
####### Suspension.

(b)If the agency does not agree to implement the PIP or does not implement the corrective actions identified in the PIP within the time allotted, then the FHEO regional director may suspend the agency's interim certification or certification.

(1) The FHEO regional director shall notify the agency in writing of the specific reasons for the suspension and provide the agency with an opportunity to respond within 30 days.

(2) Suspension shall not exceed 180 days.

(3) During the period of suspension, HUD will not refer complaints to the agency.

(4) If an agency is suspended, the FHEO regional office may elect not to provide funding under the FHAP to the agency during the period of suspension, unless and until the Assistant Secretary determines that the agency is fully in compliance with ยง 115.206.

(5) HUD may provide the agency with technical assistance during the period of suspension, if appropriate.

(6) No more than 60 days prior to the end of suspension, the FHEO regional office shall conduct a performance assessment of the agency.
