
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 115 - CERTIFICATION AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL FAIR HOUSING ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
##### Subpart C - Fair Housing Assistance Program
###### ยง 115.306 Training funds.

(a) All agencies, including agencies that receive CB funds, are eligible to receive training funds. Training funds are fixed amounts based on the number of agency employees to be trained. Training funds shall be allocated based on the FHAP appropriation. Training funds may be used only for HUD-approved or HUD-sponsored training. Agency-initiated training or other formalized training may be included in this category. However, such training must first be approved by the CAO and the GTR. Specifics on the amount of training funds that an agency will receive and, if applicable, amounts that may be deducted, will be set out in the cooperative agreement each year.

(b) Each agency must send staff to mandatory FHAP training sponsored by HUD, including, but not necessarily limited to, the National Fair Housing Training Academy and the National Fair Housing Policy Conference. If the agency does not participate in mandatory HUD-approved and HUD-sponsored training, training funds will be deducted from the agency's overall training amount. All staff of the agency responsible for the administration and enforcement of the fair housing law must participate in HUD-approved or HUD-sponsored training each year.
