
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 115 - CERTIFICATION AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL FAIR HOUSING ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
##### Subpart C - Fair Housing Assistance Program
###### ยง 115.308 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The agency shall establish and maintain records demonstrating:

(1) Its financial administration of FHAP funds; and

(2) Its performance under the FHAP.

(b) The agency will provide to the FHEO regional director reports maintained pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The agency will provide reports to the FHEO regional director in accordance with the frequency and content requirements identified in the cooperative agreement. In addition, the agency will provide reports on the final status of complaints following reasonable cause findings, in accordance with Performance Standard 8 identified in ยง 115.206.

(c) The agency will permit reasonable public access to its records consistent with the jurisdiction's requirements for release of information. Documents relevant to the agency's participation in the FHAP must be made available at the agency's office during normal working hours (except that documents with respect to ongoing fair housing complaint investigations are exempt from public review consistent with federal and/or state law).

(d) The Secretary, Inspector General of HUD, and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives shall have access to all pertinent books, accounts, reports, files, and other payments for surveys, audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts as they relate to the agency's participation in FHAP.

(e) All files will be kept in such fashion as to permit audits under 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
