
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 125 - FAIR HOUSING INITIATIVES PROGRAM
##### ยง 125.105 Application requirements.

Each application for funding under the FHIP must contain the following information, which will be assessed against the specific selection criteria set forth in a Notice of Funding Availability.

(a) A description of the practice (or practices) that has affected adversely the achievement of the goal of fair housing, and that will be addressed by the applicant's proposed activities.

(b) A description of the specific activities proposed to be conducted with FHIP funds including the final product(s) and/or any reports to be produced; the cost of each activity proposed; and a schedule for completion of the proposed activities.

(c) A description of the applicant's experience in formulating or carrying out programs to prevent or eliminate discriminatory housing practices.

(d) An estimate of public or private resources that may be available to assist the proposed activities.

(e) A description of the procedures to be used for monitoring conduct and assessing results of the proposed activities.

(f) A description of the benefits that successful completion of the project will produce to enhance fair housing, and the indicators by which these benefits are to be measured.

(g) A description of the expected long term viability of project results.

(h) Any additional information that may be required by a Notice of Funding Availability published in the
