
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 125 - FAIR HOUSING INITIATIVES PROGRAM
##### ยง 125.301 Education and Outreach Initiative.

(a) The Education and Outreach Initiative provides funding for the purpose of developing, implementing, carrying out, or coordinating education and outreach programs designed to inform members of the public concerning their rights and obligations under the provisions of fair housing laws.

(b) Notices of Funding Availability published for the FHIP may divide Education and Outreach Initiative funding into separate competitions for each of the separate types of programs (i.e., national, regional and/or local, community-based) eligible under this Initiative.

(c) National program applications, including those for Fair Housing Month funding, may be eligible to receive, as provided for in Notices of Funding Availability published in thea preference consisting of additional points if they:

(1) Demonstrate cooperation with real estate industry organizations; and/or

(2) Provide for the dissemination of educational information and technical assistance to support compliance with the housing adaptability and accessibility guidelines contained in the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988.

(d) Activities that are regional are activities that are implemented in adjoining States or two or more units of general local government within a state. Activities that are local are activities whose implementation is limited to a single unit of general local government, meaning a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. Activities that are community-based in scope are those which are primarily focused on a particular neighborhood area within a unit of general local government.

(e) Each non-governmental recipient of regional, local, or community-based funding for activities located within the jurisdiction of a State or local enforcement agency or agencies administering a substantially equivalent (under part 115 of this subchapter) fair housing law must consult with the agency or agencies to coordinate activities funded under FHIP.
