
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 146 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN HUD PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Investigation, Settlement, and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 146.35 Mediation.

(a) HUD shall refer to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, a mediation agency designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, all complaints that:

(1) Fall within the coverage of this part, unless the age distinction complained of is clearly with an exception; and

(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.

(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informal judgment that an agreement is not possible. There should be at least one meeting by each party with the mediator during the mediation process. However, the recipient and the complainant need not meet with the mediator at the same time.

(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to HUD. HUD will take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.

(d) The mediator shall protect the confidentiality of information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without the prior approval of the head of the mediation agency.

(e) HUD shall use the mediation process for a maximum of 60 days after receiving a complaint. Mediation ends if:

(1) 60 days elapse from the time HUD receives the complaint; or

(2) Before the end of the 60-day period, an agreement is reached; or

(3) Before the end of the 60-day period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.
