
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 146 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN HUD PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Investigation, Settlement, and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 146.37 Investigation.
####### Investigation and settlement following mediation.

(a)(1) HUD shall investigate complaints that are unresolved after mediation or are reopened because of an alleged violation of a mediation agreement.

(2) In the investigation of complaints filed under this part, HUD will establish facts through such methods as discussion with the complainant and recipient and the review of documents in the possession of either party. HUD may also seek the assistance of any applicable State agency. Where possible, HUD will settle the complaint on terms that are mutually agreeable to the parties.

(3) Settlements shall be in writing and signed by the parties and by an authorized HUD official.

(4) A settlement shall not affect the initiation or continuation of any other enforcement effort of HUD, including compliance reviews or investigation of other complaints involving the recipient.

(5) A settlement reached under this paragraph (a) of this section is an agreement to resolve an alleged violation of the Act to the satisfaction of the parties involved, and does not constitute a finding of discrimination against the recipient.
