
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 180 - CONSOLIDATED HUD HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS
##### Subpart C - Parties
###### ยง 180.310 Parties.

(a) Parties to proceedings under this part are HUD, the respondent(s), and any intervenors. Respondents include persons named as such in a charge issued under 24 CFR part 103 and Recipients/applicants named as respondents in hearing notices issued under 24 CFR parts 1, 6, 8 or 146 and notices of proposed adverse action under this part.

(b) An aggrieved person is not a party but may file a motion to intervene. Requests for intervention shall be filed within 50 days after the filing of the charge; however, the ALJ may allow intervention beyond that time. An intervenor's right to participate as a party may be restricted by order of the ALJ pursuant to statute, the rules in this part or other applicable law. Intervention shall be permitted if the person requesting intervention is

(1) The aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge is issued; or

(2) An aggrieved person who claims an interest in the property or transaction that is the subject of the charge and the disposition of the charge may, as a practical matter, impair or impede this person's ability to protect that interest, unless the aggrieved person is adequately represented by the existing parties.

(c) A complainant in a non-Fair Housing Act matter is not a party but may file a motion to become an amicus curiae.

(d) Any person may file a petition to participate in a proceeding under this part as an amicus curiae. An amicus curiae is not a party to the proceeding and may not introduce evidence at the hearing.

(1) A petition to participate as amicus curiae shall be filed before the commencement of the hearing, unless the petitioner shows good cause for filing the petition later. The petition may be granted if the ALJ finds that the petitioner has a legitimate interest in the proceedings, and that such participation will not unduly delay the outcome and may contribute materially to the proper disposition thereof.

(2) The amicus curiae may submit briefs within time limits set by the ALJ or by the Secretary in the event of an appeal to the Secretary.

(3) When all parties have completed their initial examination of a witness, the amicus curiae may request the ALJ to propound specific questions to the witness. Any such request may be granted if the ALJ believes the proposed additional testimony may assist materially in elucidating factual matters at issue between the parties and will not expand the issues.
