
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 180 - CONSOLIDATED HUD HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS
##### Subpart D - Proceedings Prior to Hearing
###### ยง 180.410 Charges under the Fair Housing Act.
####### Contents.

(b)The charge shall consist of a short and plain written statement of the facts upon which reasonable cause has been found to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur. A notification shall be served with the charge containing the following information:

(1) Any complainant, respondent, or aggrieved person may elect to have the claims asserted in the charge decided in a civil action under 42 U.S.C. 3612(o), in lieu of an administrative proceeding under this part.

(2) Such election must be made not later than 20 days after receipt of service of the charge by serving written notice of such on the Docket Clerk, each respondent, each aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge was issued, the Assistant Secretary, and the General Counsel.

(3) If no person timely elects to have the claims asserted in the charge decided in a civil action under 42 U.S.C. 3612(o), an administrative proceeding will be conducted under this part.

(4) If an administrative hearing is conducted:

(i) The hearing will be held at a date and place specified.

(ii) The respondent will have an opportunity to file an answer to the charge within 30 days after service of the charge.

(iii) The aggrieved person may participate as a party to the administrative proceeding by filing a request for intervention within 50 days after service of the charge.

(iv) All discovery must be concluded 15 days before the date set for hearing.

(v) The rules in this part will govern the proceeding.

(5) If, at any time following service of the charge on the respondent, the respondent intends to enter into a contract, sale, encumbrance, or lease with any person regarding the property that is the subject of the charge, the respondent must provide a copy of the charge to such person before the respondent and the person enter into the contract, sale, encumbrance or lease.
