
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 180 - CONSOLIDATED HUD HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS
##### Subpart E - Discovery
###### ยง 180.520 Use of deposition at hearings.
####### In general.

(a)At the hearing, any part or all of a deposition, so far as admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence, may be used against any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had due notice of the taking of the deposition, in accordance with the following provisions:

(1) Any deposition may be used by any party for the purpose of contradicting or impeaching the testimony of the deponent as a witness.

(2) The deposition of an expert witness may be used by any party for any purpose, unless the ALJ rules that such use is unfair or in violation of due process.

(3) The deposition of a party, or of anyone who at the time of the taking of the deposition was an officer, director, or duly authorized agent of a public or private corporation, partnership, or association that is a party, may be used by any other party for any purpose.

(4) The deposition of a witness, whether or not a party, may be used by any party for any purpose if the ALJ finds:

(i) That the witness is dead;

(ii) That the witness is out of the United States or more than 100 miles from the place of hearing, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the deposition;

(iii) That the witness is unable to attend to testify because of age, sickness, infirmity, or imprisonment;

(iv) That the party offering the deposition has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or

(v) Whenever exceptional circumstances exist as to make it desirable, in the interest of justice and with due regard to the importance of presenting the testimony of witnesses orally in open hearing, to allow the deposition to be used.

(5) If a part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, any other party may require the party to introduce all of the deposition that is relevant to the part introduced. Any party may introduce any other part of the deposition.

(6) Substitution of parties does not affect the right to use depositions previously taken. If a proceeding has been dismissed and another proceeding involving the same subject matter is later brought between the same parties or their representatives or successors in interest, all depositions lawfully taken in the former proceeding may be used in the latter proceeding.
