
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 180 - CONSOLIDATED HUD HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS
##### Subpart E - Discovery
###### ยง 180.525 Requests for production of documents or things for inspection or other purposes, including physical and mental examinations.

(a) Any party may serve on any other party a request to:

(1) Produce and/or permit the party, or a person acting on the party's behalf, to inspect and copy any designated documents, or to inspect and copy, test, or sample any tangible things that contain or may lead to relevant information and that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served.

(2) Permit entry upon designated land or other property in the possession or control of the party upon whom the request is served for the purpose of inspection and measuring, photographing, testing, or other purposes stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) Each request shall set forth with reasonable particularity the items or categories to be inspected and shall specify a reasonable time, place and manner for making the inspection and performing the related acts.

(c) Within 15 days after service of the request, the party upon whom the request is served shall serve a written response on the party submitting the request. The response shall state, with regard to each item or category, that inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested, unless there are objections, in which case the reasons for the objection shall be stated.

(d) Upon motion of any party, when the mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of a party or of a person in the custody or under the legal control of a party, is in controversy, the presiding ALJ may order the party to submit to a physical or mental examination by a suitably licensed or certified examiner or to produce for examination the person in the party's custody or legal control. The order may be made only on motion for good cause shown and upon notice to the person to be examined and to all parties and shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, and scope of the examination and the person or persons by whom it is to be made. A report of the examiner shall be made in accordance with Rule 35(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
