
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter I - Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 180 - CONSOLIDATED HUD HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS
##### Subpart E - Discovery
###### ยง 180.530 Requests for admissions.

(a) Any party may serve on any other party a written request for the admission of the truth of any matters relevant to the adjudication set forth in the request that relate to statements or opinions of fact or of application of law to fact, including the genuineness and authenticity of any documents described in or attached to the request.

(b) Each matter for which an admission is requested is admitted unless, within 15 days after service of the request, or within such time as the ALJ allows, the party to whom the request is directed serves on the requesting party a sworn written answer which:

(1) Specifically denies, in whole or in part, the matter for which an admission is requested;

(2) Sets forth in detail why the party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter; or

(3) States an objection that the matter is privileged, irrelevant or otherwise improper in whole or in part.

(c) An answering party may not give lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny, unless he/she/it states that he/she/it has made a reasonable inquiry and that the information known to, or readily obtainable by, him/her/it is insufficient to enable the party to admit or deny.

(d) The party requesting admissions may move for a determination of the sufficiency of the answers or objections. Unless the ALJ determines that an objection is justified, the ALJ shall order that an answer be served. If the ALJ determines that an answer does not comply with the requirements of this section, the ALJ may order either that the matter is admitted or that an amended answer be served.

(e) Any matter admitted under this section is conclusively established unless, upon the motion of a party, the ALJ permits the withdrawal or amendment of the admission. Any admission made under this section is made for the purposes of the pending proceeding only, is not an admission by the party for any other purpose, and may not be used against the party in any other proceeding.
