
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Requirements for Application, Commitment, and Endorsement Generally Applicable to Multifamily and Health Care Facility Mortgage Insurance Programs; and Continuing Eligibility Requirements for Existing Projects
####### Commitment Applications
######## ยง 200.45 Processing of applications.
######### Preapplication conference.

(a)Except for mortgages insured under section 241(f) or 242 of the Act, the local HUD Office will determine whether participation in such a conference is required as a condition to submission of an initial application for either a site appraisal and market analysis (SAMA) letter (for new construction), a feasibility letter (for substantial rehabilitation), or for a firm commitment. The project sponsor may elect (after the preapplication conference if required) to submit an application for a SAMA or a feasibility letter (as appropriate), or for a firm commitment for insurance depending upon the completeness of the drawings, specifications and other required exhibits. An application for a SAMA or feasibility letter may be submitted by the project sponsor. An application for a firm commitment for insurance must be submitted by both the project sponsor and an approved mortgagee. Applications shall be submitted to the local HUD Office on HUD-approved forms. No application will be considered unless accompanied by all exhibits required by the form and program handbooks. At the option of the local HUD Office, the SAMA/Feasibility letter stage of processing can be combined with the firm commitment stage of processing.
