
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Requirements for Application, Commitment, and Endorsement Generally Applicable to Multifamily and Health Care Facility Mortgage Insurance Programs; and Continuing Eligibility Requirements for Existing Projects
####### Commitment Applications
######## ยง 200.45 Processing of applications.
######### Effect of SAMA letter, feasibility letter, and firm commitment,SAMA letter.

(d)-(1)(i) The issuance of a SAMA letter indicates completion of the site appraisal and market analysis stage to determine initial acceptability of the site and recognition of a specific market need. The SAMA letter is not a commitment to insure a mortgage for the proposed project and does not bind the Commissioner to issue a firm commitment to insure. The SAMA letter precedes the later submission of acceptable plans and specifications for the proposed project and is limited to advising the applicant as to the following determinations of the Commissioner, which shall not be changed to the detriment of an applicant, if the application for a firm commitment is received before expiration of the SAMA letter:

(A) The land value fully improved (with off-site improvements installed);

(B) The acceptability of the proposed project site, the proposed composition, number and size of the units and the market for the number of proposed units. Where the application is not acceptable as submitted, but can be made acceptable by a change in the number, size, or composition of the units, the SAMA letter may establish the specific lesser number of units which would be acceptable and any acceptable alternative plan for the composition and size of units; and

(C) The acceptability of the unit rents proposed. Where rent levels are unacceptable, the SAMA letter may establish specific rents which are acceptable.

(ii) After receiving a SAMA letter, the sponsor shall submit design drawings and specifications in a timeframe prescribed by the Commissioner. The Commissioner will review and comment on design development and the drawings and specifications. The comments will be provided to the sponsor for use in preparing a firm commitment application.
