
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart F - Placement and Removal Procedures for Participation in FHA Programs
####### Nonprofit Organization
######## ยง 200.195 Removal of nonprofit organization from Nonprofit Organization Roster.
######### Procedure for removal.

(b)A nonprofit organization that is debarred or suspended or subject to a limited denial of participation will be automatically removed from the FHA Nonprofit Organization Roster. In all other cases, the following procedure for removal applies:

(1) HUD will give the nonprofit organization written notice of the proposed removal. The notice will include the reasons for the proposed removal and the duration of the proposed removal.

(2) The nonprofit organization will have 20 days from the date of the notice (or longer, if provided in the notice) to submit a written response appealing the proposed removal and to request a conference. A request for a conference must be in writing and must be submitted along with the written response.

(3) A HUD official will review the appeal and provide an informal conference if requested. The HUD official will send a response either affirming, modifying, or canceling the removal. The HUD official will not be someone who was involved in HUD's initial removal decision. HUD will respond with a decision within 30 days of receiving the response, or, if the nonprofit organization has requested a conference, within 30 days after the completion of the conference. HUD may extend the 30-day period by providing written notice to the nonprofit organization.

(4) If the nonprofit organization does not submit a timely written response, the removal will be effective 20 days after the date of HUD's initial removal notice (or after a longer period provided in the notice). If a written response is submitted, and the initial removal decision is affirmed or modified, the removal will be effective on the date of HUD's notice affirming or modifying the initial removal decision.
