
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart O - Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention
####### ยง 200.810 Single family insurance and coinsurance.
######## Treatment of defective paint surfaces.

(c)For defective paint surfaces, treatment shall be provided to defective areas. Treatment of hazards shall consist of covering or removing defective paint surfaces. Covering may be accomplished by such means as adding a layer of wallboard to the wall surface. Depending on the wall condition, wallcoverings which are permanently attached may be used. Covering or replacing trim surfaces is also permitted. Paint removal may be accomplished by such methods as scraping, heat treatment (infra-red or coil type heat guns) or chemicals. Machine sanding and use of propane or gasoline torches (open-flame methods) are not permitted. Washing and repainting without thorough removal or covering does not constitute adequate treatment. In the case of defective paint spots, scraping and repainting the defective area is considered adequate treatment. Treatment of a defective paint surface is not required if such a surface is found to not be a lead-based paint surface by a lead-based paint inspector certified pursuant to procedures of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency at 40 CFR part 745.
