
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### § 200.925a Multifamily and care-type minimum property standards.
######## Standard for evaluating local building codes.

(c)The Secretary shall compare the portions of a local or State building code applicable to residential or institutional occupancy, as appropriate, submitted under § 200.925a(d) to the list of construction related areas contained in § 200.925b.

(1) A State or local code will be accepted if it regulates each area on the list.

(2) A State or local building code will be partially accepted if it regulates most of the areas on the list. However, no code may be partially accepted if it fails to regulate the subarea for seismic design (see § 200.925b(c)(5)), or if it fails to regulate subareas in more than one of the following major areas listed in § 200.925b: fire safety, light and ventilation, structural loads and seismic design, foundation systems, materials standards, construction components, glass, mechanical, plumbing, electrical, and elevators.

(3) For purposes of this paragraph, a state or local code regulates an area if it establishes a standard concerning that area. However, for earthquake loads (see § 200.925b(c)(5)), ASCE 7-88 is mandatory.
