
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### § 200.925a Multifamily and care-type minimum property standards.
######## Notification of decision.

(3)The Secretary shall review the material submitted under paragraphs (d) (1)(ii) and (2)(i). Following that review, the Secretary shall issue a written notice (except in the case of a previously accepted code which hasn't been changed) to the submitting party stating whether the State or local building code has been accepted, partially accepted, or whether the Secretary's previous acceptance or partial acceptance has been continued; the basis for the Secretary's decision; and a notification of the submitting party's right to present its views concerning the denial of acceptance if the code is neither accepted nor partially accepted. The Secretary may, in his discretion, permit either an oral or written presentation of views.

(i) If a developer or other interested party is notified that a State or local building code has not been accepted, then the multifamily or care-type properties eligible for HUD benefits in that jurisdiction shall be constructed in accordance with the appropriate codes indicated in § 200.925c(c). In such instances, the developer or other interested party shall notify the HUD Field Office of the code or codes with which it chooses to comply, in accordance with § 200.925a(d)(1)(i)(A).

(ii) If a developer or other interested party is notified that a State or local building code has been partially accepted, then the multifamily or care-type properties eligible for HUD benefits in that jurisdiction shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable State or local building code, plus those additional requirements identified in the written notice issued by the Secretary under § 200.925a(d)(3). The written notice shall identify, in accordance with appendix J of the Handbook identified in § 200.929(b)(2), those portions of the codes listed at § 200.925c(a) with which the property must comply.

(iii) Each Regional Office will maintain a current list of jurisdictions with accepted building codes and a current list of jurisdictions with partially accepted building codes. The lists will state the most recent date of each code's acceptance or partial acceptance and will be available to any interested party upon request. In addition, the list of jurisdictions whose codes have been partially accepted shall identify those portions of the codes listed at § 200.925c(a) with which the property must comply.
