
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### § 200.926 Minimum property standards for one and two family dwellings.
######## Standard for evaluating local or state building codes.

(c)The Secretary shall compare a local building code submitted under paragraph (d) of this section or a State code to the list of construction related areas contained in § 200.926a.

(1) A local or State code will be accepted if it regulates each area and subarea on the list.

(2) A State or local building code will be partially accepted if it regulates most of the areas on the list. However, no code may be partially accepted if it fails to regulate the subarea for seismic design (see § 200.926a(c)(5)), or if it fails to regulate subareas in more than one of the following major areas listed in § 200.926a: fire safety, light and ventilation, structural loads and seismic design, foundation systems, materials standards, construction components, glass, mechanical, plumbing, and electrical.

(3) For purposes of this paragraph, a local or State code regulates an area or subarea if it establishes a standard concerning that area or subarea. However, for earthquake loads (see § 200.926a(c)(5)), ASCE 7-88 is mandatory.
