
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.926 Minimum property standards for one and two family dwellings.
######## Notification of decision.

(3)(i) Fire retardant treated plywood, where approved by a State or local building code, shall not be permitted for use in roof construction unless a HUD technical suitability bulletin has been issued by the Department for that product.

(ii) The Secretary shall review the material submitted under ยง 200.926(d). Following that review, the Secretary shall issue a written notice (except where there is a previously accepted or partially accepted code which has not been changed) to the submitting party stating whether the local building code is acceptable, partially acceptable, or not acceptable. Where the local building code is not acceptable, the notice shall also state whether the State code is acceptable, partially acceptable or not acceptable. The notice shall also contain the basis for the Secretary's decision and a notification of the submitting party's right to present its views concerning the denial of acceptance if the code is neither accepted nor partially accepted. The Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit either an oral or written presentation of views.
