
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.926d Construction requirements.
######## Site conditions.

(3)(i) The property shall be free of those foreseeable hazards and adverse conditions which may affect the health and safety of occupants or the structural soundness of the improvements, or which may impair the customary use and enjoyment of the property. The hazards include toxic chemicals, radioactive materials, other pollution, hazardous activities, potential damage from soil or other differential ground movements, ground water, inadequate surface drainage, flood, erosion, or other hazards located on or off site. The site must meet the standards set forth in 24 CFR part 51, and HUD Handbook 4910.1, section 606 for termite and decay protection.

(ii) When special conditions exist or arise during construction which were unforeseen and which necessitate precautionary or hazard mitigation measures, the HUD Field Office shall require corrective work to mitigate potential adverse effects from the special conditions as necessary. Special conditions include rock formations, unstable soils or slopes, high ground water levels, springs, or other conditions which may adversely affect a property. It shall be the builder's responsibility to ensure proper design, construction and satisfactory performance where these conditions are present.
