
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.926d Construction requirements.
######## Water supply systems,General.

(f)-(1)(i) Each living unit shall be provided with a continuing and sufficient supply of safe water under adequate pressure and of appropriate quality for all household uses. Newly constructed residential property for which a building permit has been applied for on or after June 19, 1988 from the competent authority with jurisdiction in this matter shall have lead-free water piping. For purposes of these standards, water piping is "lead free" if it uses solders and flux containing not more than 0.2 percent lead and pipes and pipe fittings containing not more than 8.0 percent lead. This system shall not impair the function or durability of the plumbing system or attachments.

(ii) The chemical and bacteriological standards of the local health authority shall apply. In the absence of such standards, those of the appropriate State agency shall apply. A water analysis may be required by either the health authority or the HUD Field Office.

(iii) Whenever feasible, connection shall be made to a public water system. When a public system is not available, connection shall be made to a community system which complies with HUD Handbook 4940.2, if feasible.
