
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.926d Construction requirements.
######## Well construction.

(4)(i) The well shall be constructed so as to allow the pump to be easily placed and to function properly.

(ii)(A) All drilled wells shall be provided with a sound, durable and watertight casing capable of sustaining the loads imposed.

(B) The casing shall extend from a point several feet below the water level at drawdown or from an impervious strata above the water level to 12 in. above either the ground surface or the pump room floor. The casing shall be sealed at the upper opening to a depth of at least 15 feet.

(iii) Bored wells shall be lined with concrete, vitrified clay or equivalent materials.

(iv) The space between the casing or liner and the wall of the well hole shall be sealed with cement grout.

(v) The well casing shall not be used to convey water except under positive pressure. A separate drop pipe shall be used for the suction line.

(vi) When sand or silt is encountered in the water-bearing formation, the well shall either be compacted and gravel packed, or a removable strainer or screen shall be installed.

(vii) The surface of the ground above and around the well shall be compacted and graded to drain surface water away from the well.

(viii) Openings in the casing, cap, or concrete cover for the entrance of pipes, pumps or manholes shall be watertight.

(ix) If a breather is provided, it shall extend above the highest level to which surface water may rise. The breather shall be watertight, and the open end shall be screened and positioned to prevent entry of dust, insects and foreign objects.
