
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.935 Administrator qualifications and procedures for HUD building products certification programs.
######## Administrator qualifications and application procedures,Qualifications.

(c)-(1)Each program administrator shall be capable of conducting a certification program with respect to organization, staff and facilities, and have a reputation for adhering to high ethical standards. To be considered acceptable for conducting a certification program, each administrator shall:

(i) Be a technically qualified organization with past experience in the administration of certification programs. The certification program(s) shall be under the supervision of a qualified professional with six years of experience in interpreting testing standards, test methods, evaluating test reports and quality control programs. Each administrator is responsible for staffing the program with qualified professional personnel with experience in interpreting testing standards, test methods, evaluating test reports and quality control programs. The staff shall be adequate to service all aspects of the program.

(ii) Have field inspectors trained to make selections of materials for testing from manufacturer's stock or from distributors' establishments and to conduct product compliance inspections. Such inspectors must be trained and experienced in evaluating manufacturer's quality control records to ascertain with a reasonable degree of assurance that continuing production remains in compliance with the applicable standard set forth in the Use of Materials (UM) Bulletin. When inspectors are used to evaluate laboratory operations, they shall be qualified and under the supervision of the administrator. They shall be knowledgeable in such areas as test methods, quality control, testing techniques, and instrument calibration.

(iii) Have facilities and capabilities for communications with manufacturers, laboratories, and HUD, including publication of a directory of certified products and a list of accredited laboratories, if required by the program.

(iv) Have adequate policies and practices for preserving information entrusted to its care. HUD reserves the right to review all technical records related to the program for the purpose of monitoring.

(v) Have a copy of all applicable standards, test methods and related information necessary to carry out the program.

(vi) Have a registered or pending certification mark at the United States Patent Office and be willing to license, on a uniform basis, the use of that mark by manufacturers as a validation of the manufacturer's certification that the product complies with the applicable standard.
