
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.935 Administrator qualifications and procedures for HUD building products certification programs.
######## Applications procedures.

(2)Any organization desiring HUD acceptance as a qualified administrator to conduct a certification program shall make application in writing to the Director, Office of Architecture and Engineering Standards. The application shall state the particular certification program for which acceptance is requested and include information indicating compliance with each of the qualification requirements by number and subsection. Attached to the application shall be:

(i) A list of certification programs in which the organization is participating or has participated and the types of participation (sponsor, administrator, testing laboratory, etc.).

(ii) A procedural guide used in one of these programs.

(iii) A directory or listing used in one of these programs.

(iv) A reproduction or facsimile of the organization's registered or pending mark.

(v) A proposed procedural guide for the particular certification program. HUD certification program procedures described in paragraph (d) of this section shall be followed.
