
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.935 Administrator qualifications and procedures for HUD building products certification programs.
######## Product decertification.

(9)If a failure should occur in any test, the laboratory shall notify the administrator and the manufacturer. The manufacturer shall notify the administrator if a retest if requested. If a retest is not requested, validation shall be withdrawn. If the manufacturer requests a retest, the administrator shall select new samples and submit them to the same or another laboratory at the manufacturer's expense, for retest of only the test requirement(s) in which the failure(s) occurred. If the specified number of specimens pass the retest, the product can continue to be validated and listed. If the designated number of specimens described in the UM Bulletin fail, the administrator shall decertify the product. The manufacturer may request that a new selection be made of the product after correction or modifications and be subjected to the initial acceptance testing procedure or to a program of retesting established by the administrator. The administrator may decertify the product on the basis of inadequate quality control by the manufacturer. The administrator shall notify the manufacturer, HUD headquarters and the HUD Field Offices of any decertification within 7 days. When the product is decertified the manufacturer shall remove labels, tags or marks from all production and inventory in his/her control determined to be in noncompliance.
