
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.935 Administrator qualifications and procedures for HUD building products certification programs.
######## Challenge response.

(10)Any person or organization may submit a sample of a manufacturer's certified product to the administrator in substantiation of a claim of noncompliance. Submission shall be made to the administrator that validated the manufacturer's product. The administrator shall notify the manufacturer that its product has been challenged and shall make arrangements to obtain test samples of the challenged product. An estimate of the cost of the special sample selection and testing shall be made to the complainant. The complainant shall pay the estimated cost of the investigation in advance of any testing of the challenged product, unless HUD believes the complaint to be in the public's interest. HUD may conduct its own investigation when deemed necessary based upon a complaint or a product failure. The administrator shall submit the sample of the challenged product to an approved laboratory of the administrator's choice with the request to test compliance of only the challenged requirement(s). If the samples tested prove that the product failed to meet the standard, the product shall be decertified immediately. The manufacturer whose product is decertified shall reimburse the administrator for all costs of the investigation and the administrator shall refund the complainant's advance payment. If the tests prove that the product does comply with the standard, the complainant shall be notified that the tests do not support the complaint and that the advance fee has been used for the cost of testing and investigating the claim.
