
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.935 Administrator qualifications and procedures for HUD building products certification programs.
######## Equipment and facilities.

(2)Each laboratory shall:

(i) Describe the test instruments and testing facilities to be used in making the test(s) required by the applicable standard. Information shall include: Item of equipment, manufacturer, type or model, serial number, range, precision, frequency of calibration and dates of calibration.

(ii) Provide photographs of the listed equipment.

(iii) Provide a description of the applicable standards and calibration equipment being used and the calibration procedures followed, including National Bureau of Standards traceability, when applicable. List outside organizations providing calibration services, if used.

(iv) Demonstrate that measurements can be made with existing equipment and repeated precision within the limits established by the applicable standards. Administrator may periodically require laboratories to conduct collaborative testing on standard reference materials.

(v) Provide evidence, when regulated temperatures and humidity are required, that charts are maintained from a continuous recorder registering both wet and dry bulb temperature or relative humidity. The charts are to be properly dated, retained and available for inspection.

(vi) Provide a list of standards, test methods and other information necessary to carry out the program.
