
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.944 Supplementary specific requirements under the HUD building product standards and certification program for plywood and other performance rated wood-based structural-use panels.

(a)(1) All plywood made to specifications of Voluntary Product Standard, PS 1-83, "Construction and Industrial Plywood" (published by the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards (May 1984)) and grade marked as PS 1-83 shall conform to the requirements of PS 1-83, except that all veneers may be D-grade. A copy of PS 1-83 may be obtained from the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute for Standards and Technology, Office of Product Standards, Gaithersburg, MD 20899.

(2) All plywood panels not meeting the veneer grade requirements of PS 1-83, and all performance rated composite and nonveneer structural-use panels shall comply with the requirements described in the APA PRP-108, "Performance Standards and Policies for Structural-Use panels" (published by the American Plywood Association, June 1988). However, in ASTM D-3043-87, "Standard Methods of Testing Structural Panels in Flexure" (published by the American Society for Testing and Materials, August 28, 1987), Method B may be used in lieu of Method C for measuring the mechanical properties of the panel, provided that the test specimen has a width of at least 12 inches. The impact load shall be 150 ft. lbs. for single-layer floor panels excluding any floor finishes. Copies of the APA Standard may be obtained from the American Plywood Association, P.O. Box 11700, Tacoma, WA 98411-0770. Copies of the ASTM Standard may be obtained from the American Society of Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103.

(3) Structural-use panels shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions and Form No. E30K, "APA Design/Construction Guide-Residential and Commercial" (published by the American Plywood Association, January 1989).
