
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.944 Supplementary specific requirements under the HUD building product standards and certification program for plywood and other performance rated wood-based structural-use panels.
######## Periodic tests and qualify control inspections.

(c)Under the procedures set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(8) concerning periodic tests and quality control inspections, the frequency of testing for a product shall be described in the specific building product certification program. In the case of plywood and wood-based structural-use panels, testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows:

(1) Testing shall be done in an Administrator's laboratory or an Administrator-approved laboratory every three months. All plywood qualified for conformance with PS 1-83 shall be tested in accordance with PS 1-83.

(2) All thickness and lay-ups of structural-use panels in production made in conformance with the Performance Standards shall be tested in accordance with procedures set forth in APA PRP-108 Performance Standards and Policies for Structural-Use Panels (published by the American Plywood Association Standard June 1988).

(3) The Administrator shall examine each manufacturer's quality control procedures to assure they are the same as or equivalent to those set forth under the Quality Assurance Policy section 4.2.3 of the publication referenced in paragraph (2) above or PS 1-83 section 3.8.6.6, Reexamination.

(4) The Administrator shall inspect the manufacturer's procedures at the plant at least every three months to assure that the initially accepted quality control procedures are being followed.
