
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.946 Building product standards and certification program for exterior finish and insulation systems, use of Materials Bulletin UM 101.
######## Applicable standards:

(a)(1) All Exterior Finish and Insulation Systems shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with the following standards:

(i) ASCE 7-93, American Society of Civil Engineers-Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures.

(ii) ASTM C 150-94 Standard Specification for Portland Cement.

(iii) ASTM C 920-87 Standard Specification for Elastomeric Joint Sealants.

(iv) ASTM C-1186-91 Standard Specification for Flat Non-Asbestos Fiber-Cement Sheets.

(v) ASTM D 579-90 Standard Specification for Greige Woven Glass Fabrics.

(vi) ASTM D 3273-86-(Reapproved 1991) Standard Test Method for Resistance to Growth of Mold on the Surface of Interior Coatings in an Environmental Chamber.

(vii) ASTM E 330-90 Standard Test Method for Structural Performance of Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, and Doors by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference.

(viii) ASTM E 695-79 (Reapproved 1991), Standard Method of Measuring Relative Resistance of Wall, Floor, and Roof Construction to Impact Loading.

(ix) ASTM G 26-93 Standard Practice for Operating Light-Exposure Apparatus (Xenon-Arc Type) With and Without Water for Exposure of Nonmetallic Materials.

(x) Council of American Building Officials, Model Energy Code, 1993 Edition.

(xi) EIMA Test Method 101.01-95 (modified ASTM C67-91) Standard Test Method for Freeze/Thaw Resistance of Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), Class PB.

(xii) EIMA Test Method 101.02-95 (modified ASTM E331-91)-Standard Test Method for Resistance to Water Penetration of Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), Class PB.

(xiii) EIMA Test Method 101.03-95 (modified ASTM C297-91)-Standard Test Method for Determining the Tensile Adhesion Strength of an Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS), Class PB.

(xiv) EIMA Test Method 105.01-95-Standard Test Method for Alkali Resistance of Glass Fiber Reinforcing Mesh for Use in Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), Class PB.

(xv) European Agreement Union Technical Committee-June 88-UEAtc Directives for the Assessment of External Insulation System for Walls (Expanded Polystyrene Insulation Faced with a Thin Rendering) Section 3.3.3.3.

(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. They are available from:

(i) American Society Civil Engineers (ASCE) 345 East 47th Street, New York, NY 10017.

(ii) American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103;

(iii) Council of American Building Officials, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, Virginia 22041;

(iv) EAUTC Centre Scientifique ET Technique Du Batiment (CSTB), 84 Avenue Jesu Jaures, B.P. 02-77421 Marne-LA-Valee Cedex 2, Paris, France.

(v) Exterior Insulation Manufacturers Association (EIMA), 2759 State Road 580, Suite 112, Clearwater, Florida 34621-3350.
