
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Minimum Property Standards
####### ยง 200.946 Building product standards and certification program for exterior finish and insulation systems, use of Materials Bulletin UM 101.
######## Labeling.

(b)Under the procedures as set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(6), concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applied standard is required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturers. In the case of exterior wall insulation and finish systems, the certification label containing the administrator's mark shall be permanently affixed on the package or container of base and finish coating materials. Further, additional information shall be included on the certification label or mark:

(1) Manufacturer's name.

(2) Manufacturer's statement of conformance with UM 101.

(c) The Administrator shall visit the manufacturer's or sponsor's facility every 6 months, to assure that the initially accepted quality assurance procedures are being followed. At least every four years, the Administrator also shall have the exterior wall insulation and finish systems tested in an approved laboratory to assure that the original performance is maintained.

(d) The administrator's (or administration-accepted inspection agency) inspection of EFIS system installation of 5000 sq. ft. or more, shall be made during and upon completion of the construction. Reports of the inspection shall be made to the owner. These reports shall state:

(1) The coverage of the finish coat per square foot for a given volume of finish.

(2) The minimum thickness of the base and finish coatings.

(3) The fiberglass mesh is installed properly around joints and insulation. All penetrations, including windows, flashing, etc., are sealed; and there is a caulk and sealant continuity evaluation; and

(4) There is a caulk and sealant continuity evaluation with special concerns on maintenance.

(e) The manufacturer shall warrant their exterior wall insulation and finish system, including any caulks and sealants, for twenty years against faulty performance. The warranty shall include correction of delamination, chipping, denting, peeling, blistering, flaking, bulging, unsightly discoloration, or other serious deterioration of the system such as the intrusion of water through the wall or structural failure of the system's surface materials. Should any of these defects occur, the manufacturer shall make a pro-rata allowance for replacement or pay the owner the amount of the allowance. The manufacturer shall not be liable for damages or defects resulting from misuse, natural catastrophes, or other causes beyond the control of the manufacturer. The contractor shall provide a statement to the owner that the product has been installed in compliance with HUD requirements and that the manufacturer's warranty does not relieve the builder, in any way, of responsibility under the terms of the Builder's Warranty required by the National Housing Act, or under any other housing program.
