
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart W - Administrative Matters
####### ยง 200.1301 Expiring programs - Savings clause.

(a) No new loan assistance, additional participation, or new loans are being insured under the programs listed in this section. Existing loan assistance, ongoing participation, or insured loans under the programs shall continue to be governed by regulations in effect as described in this section.

(b) Any existing loan assistance, ongoing participation, or insured loans under the programs listed in this paragraph will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect as they existed immediately before October 11, 1995 (24 CFR parts 205, 209, 224-228, 240, 277, 278, 1994 edition):

(1) Part 205, Mortgage Insurance for Land Development (Title X of the National Housing Act, repealed by section 133(a) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-235, approved December 15, 1989).

(2) Part 209, Individual Homes; War Housing Mortgage Insurance (12 U.S.C. 1736-1743).

(3) Part 224, Armed Services Housing-Military Personnel (12 U.S.C. 1736-1746a).

(4) Part 225, Military Housing Insurance (12 U.S.C. 1748b).

(5) Part 226, Armed Services Housing-Civilian Employees (12 U.S.C. 1748h-1).

(6) Part 227, Armed Services Housing-Impacted Areas (12 U.S.C. 1478h-2).

(7) Part 228, Individual Residences; National Defense Housing Mortgage Insurance (12 U.S.C. 1750 as amended by 42 U.S.C. 1591c).

(8) Part 240, Mortgage Insurance on Loans for Fee Title Purchase (12 U.S.C. 1715z-5).

(9) Part 277, Loans for Housing for the Elderly or Handicapped (12 U.S.C. 1701q).

(10) Part 278, Mandatory Meals Program in Multifamily Rental or Cooperative Projects for the Elderly or Handicapped (12 U.S.C. 1701q).

(c) Any existing loan assistance, ongoing participation, or insured loans under the programs listed in this paragraph will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect as they existed immediately before May 11, 1996 (24 CFR parts 215, 222, and 237, 1995 edition):

(1) Part 215, Rent Supplement Payments Program (12 U.S.C. 1715f).

(2) Part 222, Service Person's Mortgage Insurance Program (12 U.S.C. 1715m).

(3) Part 237, Special Mortgage Insurance for Low and Moderate Income Families (12 U.S.C. 1715z-2).

(d) Any existing loan assistance, ongoing participation, or insured loans under the program listed in this paragraph will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect as they existed immediately before December 26, 1996 (24 CFR part 233, 1995 edition):

(1) Part 233, Experimental Housing Mortgage Insurance Program (12 U.S.C. 1715x).

(2) [Reserved]

(e) Any existing loan assistance, ongoing participation, or insured loans under the program listed in this paragraph will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect as they existed immediately before August 15, 2014 (24 CFR part 257):

(1) Part 257, HOPE for Homeowners Program (12 U.S.C. 1701z-22).

(2) [Reserved]

(f) No new emergency mortgage assistance, emergency mortgage relief loans, advances of credit or emergency mortgage relief payments, or any other type of assistance permitted under the Emergency Housing Act of 1975, title I of the Emergency Homeowners' Relief Act (12 U.S.C. 2701), as amended by section 1496 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203) is being provided under the programs listed below. Any existing emergency assistance, emergency mortgage relief loans, advances of credit or emergency mortgage relief payments under these programs will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect as they existed immediately before September 8, 2014 (24 CFR part 2700):
