
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 200 - INTRODUCTION TO FHA PROGRAMS
###### Subpart Y - Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP): MAP Lender Quality Assurance Enforcement
####### ยง 200.1510 Probation.
######## Effect of probation.

(b)(1) Probation is intended to be corrective in nature and not punitive. As a result, release from probation is conditioned upon the lender meeting a specific requirement or requirements, such as replacement of a staff member. A lender's failure to take prompt corrective action after being placed on probation may be the basis for a recommendation of either suspension or termination. Any such recommendation shall, when possible, go to a MAP Lender Review Board composed of the same members who issued the original probation.

(2) During the probation period, a MAP lender:

(i) Shall be removed from the MAP-Approved Lender list posted on HUD's website;

(ii) May not submit, and HUD may not accept, materials after the close of business of the date of the probation letter for a new application under MAP for multifamily mortgage insurance from HUD; and

(iii) May continue to process any existing application for multifamily mortgage insurance submitted to a Multifamily Hub or Program Center before the date of the probation letter.

(3) The MAP Lender Review Board may impose a higher level of review of the lender's underwriting by HUD;

(4) Probation is nationwide in effect.
