
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart B - Loan and Note Provisions
####### ยง 201.10 Loan amounts.
######## Property improvement loans.

(a)(1) The total principal obligation for a property improvement loan shall not exceed the actual cost of the project plus any applicable fees and charges authorized at ยง 201.25(b), up to the following maximum loan amounts:

(i) Single family property improvement loans-$25,000, except that a loan for a manufactured home that qualifies as real property shall be limited to $17,500.

(ii) Multifamily property improvement loans-$60,000 or an average of $12,000 per dwelling unit, whichever is less.

(iii) Nonresidential property improvement loans-$25,000.

(iv) Manufactured home improvement loans-$7,500.

(v) Historic preservation loans-the lesser of $15,000 per dwelling unit in a residential structure or $45,000 per residential structure.

(vi) Fire safety equipment loans-$50,000.

(2) No property improvement loan shall be approved where the total outstanding balance of all title I property improvement loans on the same property exceeds the maximum loan amount prescribed for that type of loan. If more than one type of property improvement loan is involved, the total outstanding balance of such loans on a particular property shall not exceed the maximum loan amount prescribed for the larger type of loan.
