
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart B - Loan and Note Provisions
####### ยง 201.11 Loan maturities.
######## Loan refinancing.

(c)A loan to be refinanced under this part may be refinanced for an extended period.

(1) The term of a loan to refinance a borrower's existing insured property improvement or manufactured home loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section for the particular type of loan. In addition, the total time period from the date of the original loan to the final maturity of the refinanced loan shall not exceed:

(i) In the case of a property improvement loan, the maximum term permitted under paragraph (a) of this section plus 9 years and 11 months; and

(ii) In the case of manufactured home loan, the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section plus 4 years and 11 months.

(2) The term of a loan made to refinance a borrower's existing uninsured manufactured home loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section for the particular type of loan.

(3) When a borrower's existing manufactured home lot is being refinanced in connection with the purchase of a manufactured home, the term of the combination loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section for the particular type of loan.

(4) When a borrower's existing manufactured home is being refinanced in connection with the purchase of a manufactured home lot, the term of the combination loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section for the particular type of loan.
