
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart B - Loan and Note Provisions
####### ยง 201.19 Refinanced and assumed loans.
######## Assumed loans.

(c)(1) At the option of the lender, an existing insured property improvement loan or manufactured home loan may be assumed, subject to the following conditions:

(i) A determination by the lender that the assumptor is eligible under ยง 201.20(a) or 201.21(a) and meets the requirements of ยง 201.22; and

(ii) The execution of an assumption agreement that is satisfactory to the lender and is signed by the assumptor and the original borrower or previous assumptor at the time of assumption.

(2) The lender shall not permit an assumption under any circumstances other than those contained in this section, and shall include appropriate provisions in any note or security agreement to enforce this requirement.

(3) Prior to the execution of the assumption agreement, the lender shall provide the assumptor with a written notice, to be signed by the assumptor and retained in the loan file, that:

(i) States that the loan being assumed is insured by HUD, and describes the actions the Secretary may take to recover the debt if the assumptor defaults on the loan and an insurance claim is paid; and

(ii) Constitutes the assumptor's agreement to pay penalties and administrative costs imposed by HUD as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3717.

(4) If the other requirements of paragraph (c) of this section are met, the lender at its option may release the original borrower and any intervening assumptors from liability for the repayment of a loan obligation insured under this part. The prior approval of the Secretary under ยง 201.24(e) is not required. The lender shall retain documentation of the release in the loan file.
