
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart C - Eligibility and Disbursement Requirements
####### ยง 201.20 Property improvement loan eligibility.
######## Eligible use of the loan proceeds.

(b)(1) The loan proceeds shall be used only for the purposes disclosed in the loan application. If the borrower plans to use a dealer or contractor to carry out the improvement work, the lender shall obtain a copy of a proposal or contract that describes in detail the work to be performed and the estimated or actual cost. If the borrower plans to carry out the improvement work without the services of a dealer or contractor, the borrower shall be required to furnish a detailed written description of the work to be performed, the materials to be furnished, and their estimated cost.

(2) The loan proceeds shall be used only to finance property improvements that substantially protect or improve the basic livability or utility of the property. The Secretary will establish a list of items and activities that may not be financed with the proceeds of any property improvement loan. If a lender has any doubt as to the eligibility of any item or activity, it shall request a specific ruling by the Secretary before making a loan.

(3) The loan proceeds shall only be used to finance property improvements that are started after loan approval, unless:

(i) The prior approval of the Secretary is obtained for an exception to this requirement; or

(ii) The property is located in a major disaster area declared by the President, and the lender determines that emergency action is needed to repair damage resulting from the disaster.
