
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart C - Eligibility and Disbursement Requirements
####### ยง 201.21 Manufactured home loan eligibility.
######## Eligible use of loan proceeds.

(b)(1) The loan proceeds may be used for the purchase or refinancing of a manufactured home, a suitably developed lot on which to place a manufactured home already owned by the borrower, or a manufactured home and a suitably developed lot for the home in combination. The loan proceeds may also be used to refinance an existing manufactured home already owned by the borrower in connection with the purchase of a manufactured home lot, or to refinance a lot already owned by the borrower in connection with the purchase of a manufactured home. Where the proceeds are for a manufactured home purchase loan or combination loan, the home must be the borrower's principal residence. Where the proceeds are for a manufactured home lot loan, the borrower's manufactured home must be placed on the lot and occupied as the borrower's principal residence within six months after the date of the loan.

(2) A manufactured home financed with an insured loan under this part may be either:

(i) A new home, which is one that is purchased by the borrower within 18 months after the date of manufacture and has not been previously occupied; or

(ii) An existing home, which is one that does not meet the criteria for a new home. In order to be eligible for financing with an insured loan under this part, the manufactured home, its warranty and the site on which the home is placed must meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.

(3) The proceeds of a loan to purchase a new manufactured home or a new manufactured home and lot shall not be used to purchase furniture or wheels and axles, and the cost of these items shall not be included in the total principal obligation calculated under ยง 201.10 (b)(1) or (d)(1).

(4) The proceeds of a manufactured home purchase loan may be used for the purchase, construction or installation of a garage, carport, patio or other comparable appurtenance to the manufactured home, as stated in the retail purchase contract and as approved by the Secretary. The proceeds of a combination loan may be used for the purchase, construction or installation of a permanent foundation, garage, carport, patio or other comparable appurtenance to the manufactured home.

(5) The Secretary will establish a list of items and activities that may not be financed with the proceeds of any manufactured home loan. If a lender has any doubt as to the eligibility of any item or activity, it shall request a specific ruling by the Secretary before making a loan.
