
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart C - Eligibility and Disbursement Requirements
####### ยง 201.21 Manufactured home loan eligibility.
######## Manufacturer's warranty requirements.

(d)(1) To induce the Secretary to insure a title I loan under this part for the purchase of a new manufactured home and to induce a borrower to purchase such a home, the home manufacturer shall furnish the borrower with a written warranty, duly executed by an authorized representative of the manufacturer on a HUD-approved form. The warranty shall be provided without cost to the borrower. The effective date of the warranty shall be the date of delivery of the manufactured home to the borrower, regardless of when the warranty was executed by the manufacturer or was delivered to the borrower.

(2) The warranty shall obligate the home manufacturer to take appropriate action to correct any nonconformity with the standards prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or any defects in materials or workmanship which become evident within one year after the date of delivery. This warranty shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, all other rights and privileges which the borrower may have under any other law or instrument during such period or thereafter. A copy of the warranty shall be retained in the lender's loan file.

(3) Prior to making a loan involving a new manufactured home, the lender shall investigate whether the home manufacturer is substantially complying with its warranty obligations on other homes financed by the lender under any program. If the lender knows, because of consumer complaints, dealer comments or other information concerning the manufacturer received in the course of business, that consumers have complained about warranty performance, the lender shall ascertain whether such complaints have been resolved. The lender's findings shall be documented in the loan file. Such documentation may reference information or materials contained in other files of the lender, provided that the file contains a written certification signed by a responsible loan officer under applicable criminal and civil penalties for fraud and misrepresentation that the lender's findings are supported by such other information or materials.

(4) If the lender concludes under paragraph (d)(3) of this section that a manufacturer may not be honoring its warranties, the lender shall immediately notify the Secretary in writing, with documentation of the facts and circumstances.
