
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart C - Eligibility and Disbursement Requirements
####### ยง 201.23 Borrower's initial payment.
######## General requirement.

(a)The borrower shall be responsible for the payment in cash of any costs that will not be paid, or are not eligible to be paid, from the proceeds of the loan. Such costs payable by the borrower may include any required downpayment, any discount points to be paid by the borrower to the lender, any other fees and charges that may not be financed, and any other costs in excess of the loan amount. No part of such costs payable by the borrower may be loaned, advanced, or paid to or for the benefit of the borrower by the dealer, the manufacturer, or any other party to the loan transaction. If the borrower obtains all or any part of such costs through a gift or a loan from some other source, the borrower must disclose the source of such gift or loan on the credit application. Any such loan must be secured by property or collateral owned by the borrower independently of the property securing repayment of the Title I loan, unless the prior approval of the Secretary is obtained for an exception to this requirement. The lender shall consider any such loan obligation in performing the credit investigation. Documentation of any initial payment shall be retained by the lender in the loan file.
