
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart C - Eligibility and Disbursement Requirements
####### ยง 201.24 Security requirements.
######## Property improvement loans,Property improvement loans in excess of $7,500.

(a)-(1)(i) Any property improvement loan in excess of $7,500 shall be secured by a recorded lien on the improved property. The lien shall be evidenced by a mortgage or deed of trust, executed by the borrower and all other owners in fee simple.

(ii) If the borrower is a lessee, the borrower and all owners in fee simple must execute the mortgage or deed of trust. If the borrower is purchasing the property under a land installment contract, the borrower, all owners in fee simple, and all intervening contract sellers must execute the mortgage or deed of trust.

(iii) The lien need not be a first lien on the property; however, the lien securing the Title I loan must hold no less than the second lien position. This requirement shall not apply where the first and second mortgages were made at the same time or the second mortgage was provided by a state or local government agency in conjunction with a downpayment assistance program.
