
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart C - Eligibility and Disbursement Requirements
####### § 201.26 Conditions for loan disbursement.
######## Property improvement loans.

(a)The lender shall comply with the following applicable requirements before disbursing the proceeds of a property improvement loan.

(1) The lender shall ensure that the following conditions are met:

(i) The borrower is eligible for a property improvement loan in accordance with § 201.20(a) (1) or (2); and

(ii) The interest of the borrower in the property is valid, through such title or other evidence as are generally acceptable to prudent lending institutions and leading attorneys in the community in which the property is situated.

(2) The proposed use of the loan proceeds shall be documented in accordance with the requirements of § 201.20(b)(1).

(3) Where the proceeds are to be used for an historic preservation loan, the lender shall ensure that the proposed improvements have been approved by the State Historic Preservation Officer in accordance with § 201.20(c).

(4) Where the proceeds are to be used for a fire safety equipment loan, the lender shall ensure that the proposed improvements have been approved by the State or local agency having jurisdiction over the fire safety requirements of health care facilities in accordance with § 201.20(c).

(5) In the case of a dealer loan, the lender shall obtain a completion certificate, on a HUD-approved form and signed by the borrower and the dealer under applicable criminal and civil penalties for fraud and misrepresentation, certifying that

(i) the improvements are eligible and have been completed in general accordance with the contract or cost estimate furnished to the lender, and

(ii) The borrower has not obtained the benefit of and will not receive any cash payment, rebate, cash bonus, sales commission, or anything of more than nominal value from the dealer as an inducement for the consummation of the transaction.

(6) In the case of a dealer loan made on or after December 7, 2001, the lender may disburse the loan proceeds solely to the borrower, or jointly to the borrower and the dealer or other parties to the transaction.

(7) In the case of a dealer loan, the lender must conduct a telephone interview with the borrower before the disbursement of the loan proceeds. The lender, at minimum, must obtain an oral affirmation from the borrower to release funds to the dealer. The lender shall document the borrower's oral affirmation.

(8) For any property improvement loan, the lender shall provide the borrower with a written notice, to be signed by the borrower and retained in the loan file, that:

(i) States that the loan will be insured by HUD and describes the actions the Secretary may take to recover the debt if the borrower defaults on the loan and an insurance claim is paid;

(ii) Constitutes the borrower's agreement to pay penalties and administrative costs imposed by HUD as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3717; and

(iii) In the case of a direct loan, constitutes an acknowledgement of the borrower's postdisbursement obligation to furnish a completion certificate and to permit an on-site inspection by the lender or its agent in accordance with §§ 201.40(b) and (c).

(9) The lender shall assure that the loan file is complete and contains the note, security instrument, and copies of all other documents relating to the property improvement loan transaction.
