
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart D - Insurance of Loans
####### ยง 201.31 Insurance charge.
######## Payment of insurance charge.

(b)(1) For any loan having a maturity of 25 months or less, payment of the entire insurance charge prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section is due on the 25th calendar day after the date the Secretary acknowledges the loan report.

(2)(i) For any loan having a maturity in excess of 25 months, payment of the insurance charge shall be made in annual installments, with the first installment due on the 25th calendar day after the date the Secretary acknowledges the loan report, and the second and successive installments due on the 25th calendar day after the date of billing by the Secretary.

(ii) For any loan having a maturity in excess of 25 months, payment shall be made in annual installments of 1.00 percent of the loan amount until the insurance charge is paid.

(3) All insurance charges are considered earned when paid.

(4) The Secretary may require that loan insurance charges be remitted electronically. Instructions implementing this requirement shall be communicated to all affected lenders.
