
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart D - Insurance of Loans
####### ยง 201.31 Insurance charge.
######## Refund or abatement of insurance charges.

(e)A lender shall be entitled to a refund or abatement of insurance charges only in the following instances:

(1) Where the loan obligation has been refinanced, the unearned portion of the charge on the original obligation shall be credited to the charge on the refinanced loan.

(2) Where the loan obligation is prepaid in full or an insurance claim is filed, charges falling due after such prepayment or claim shall be abated.

(3) When a loan (or portion thereof) is found to be ineligible for insurance, charges paid on the ineligible portion shall be refunded, except where the Secretary determines that there was fraud or misrepresentation by the lender in the loan transaction. Such refund shall be made only if a claim is denied by the Secretary or the ineligibility is reported by the lender promptly upon discovery and confirmed by the Secretary. In no event shall a charge be refunded on the basis of loan ineligibility where the application for refund is made after the loan is paid in full. If a loan or claim has been denied and is subsequently resubmitted, the refunded amount of the insurance charge plus any accrued insurance charge shall be repaid.
