
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart D - Insurance of Loans
####### ยง 201.32 Insurance coverage reserve account.
######## Transfer of insurance coverage.

(c)Not more than $5,000 in insurance coverage shall be transferred to or from a lender's reserve account during any fiscal year (October 1 through September 30) without the prior approval of the Secretary. Except in cases involving the sale, assignment or transfer of loans sold with recourse or under a guaranty, guarantee or repurchase agreement, the Secretary shall transfer insurance coverage to or from a lender's reserve account to accompany the loan transfers reported by lenders under ยง 201.30.

(1) In all cases involving the sale, assignment or transfer of loans sold without recourse, guaranty, guarantee, or repurchase agreement, the Secretary shall transfer insurance coverage to the reserve account established for the transferee lender in an amount equal to 10 percent of the actual purchase price or the net unpaid principal balance, whichever is lesser, but not to exceed the amount of insurance coverage in the transferor lender's reserve account prior to the transfer. Insurance coverage shall be added to the existing amount of insurance coverage in the transferee lender's reserve account. The Secretary may transfer insurance coverage with earmarking when a determination is made that it is in the Secretary's interest to do so.

(2) In cases involving the transfer of loans sold with recourse or under a guaranty, guarantee or repurchase agreement, no insurance coverage will be transferred and no reports will be required.

(3) An existing insured property improvement loan or manufactured home loan may not be refinanced by a lender different from the originating or purchasing lender of record, unless the loan has been sold, assigned, or transferred to the new lender under paragraph (c) of this section and the Secretary has transferred insurance coverage for the loan under the applicable requirements of this paragraph.
