
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart F - Default Under the Loan Obligation
####### ยง 201.51 Proceeding against the loan security.
######## Property improvement loans.

(a)(1) After acceleration of maturity on a secured property improvement loan, the lender may either proceed against the loan security under its title I security instrument or make claim under its contract of insurance. If the lender proceeds against the loan security, it may submit an insurance claim only if it complies with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The lender may proceed against the secured property under its Title I security instrument and later submit a claim under its contract of insurance only with the prior approval of the Secretary. The Secretary's decision will be based upon all relevant factors, including but not limited to the appraised value and the amount of all outstanding loan obligations on the property, the estimated costs of foreclosure and disposition, and the anticipated time to dispose of the property. In proceeding against the secured property, the lender shall comply with all applicable State and local laws, and shall take all actions necessary to preserve its rights, if any, to obtain a valid and enforceable deficiency judgment against the borrower.

(3) After acceleration of maturity on a defaulted unsecured property improvement loan, the lender may submit a claim under its contract of insurance.
