
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart F - Default Under the Loan Obligation
####### ยง 201.51 Proceeding against the loan security.
######## Manufactured home loans.

(b)(1) After acceleration of maturity on a defaulted manufactured home loan, the lender shall proceed against the loan security by foreclosure or repossession, as appropriate, in compliance with all applicable State and local laws, and shall acquire good, marketable title to the property securing the loan. The lender shall also take all actions necessary under State and local law to preserve its rights, if any, to obtain a valid and enforceable deficiency judgment against the borrower.

(2) Prior to foreclosure or repossession, the lender or its agent shall make a visual inspection of the property and prepare a report on its condition for placement in the loan file. If the lender determines that the property has been abandoned, the lender shall take such steps as are permitted under State or local law to repossess or foreclose upon the property, without waiting for the notice period under ยง 201.50(b) to run.

(3) The lender shall obtain a HUD-approved appraisal of the property as soon after repossession as possible, or earlier with the permission of the borrower. This appraisal shall be performed on the homesite, unless the site owner requires that the home be removed before the appraisal can be performed, and it should reflect the retail value of comparable manufactured homes in similar condition and in the same geographic area where the repossession occurred. When the manufactured home is without hazard insurance and has sustained, at any time prior to the sale or disposition of the home, damage which would normally be covered by such insurance, the lender shall report this situation in submitting an insurance claim, and the appraised value shall be based upon the retail value of comparable homes in good condition and in the same geographic area, without any deduction for such damage.
