
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 201 - TITLE I PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS
###### Subpart F - Default Under the Loan Obligation
####### ยง 201.55 Calculation of insurance claim payment.
######## Property improvement loans.

(a)For property improvement loans, the insurance claim payment shall be 90 percent of the following amounts:

(1) The unpaid amount of the loan obligation (net unpaid principal and the uncollected interest earned to the date of default, calculated according to the terms of the note executed for any loan application that is approved prior to the effective date of these regulations, and calculated according to the actuarial method for all loans for which loan applications are approved on or after the effective date of these regulations). Where the lender has proceeded against the secured property under ยง 201.51(a)(2), the unpaid amount of the loan obligation shall be reduced by the proceeds received from the property's sale or disposition, after deducting the following:

(i) The balances due on any obligations senior to the Title I loan obligation; and

(ii) Customary and reasonable expenses for foreclosure and disposition, as determined by the Secretary.

(2) Interest on the unpaid amount of the loan obligation from the date of default to the date of the claim's initial submission for payment plus 15 calendar days, calculated at the rate of seven percent per annum. However, interest shall not be paid for any period greater than nine months from the date of default.

(3) The amount of uncollected court costs, including fees paid for issuing, serving, and filing a summons.

(4) The amount of attorney's fees on an hourly or other basis for time actually expended and billed, not to exceed $500.

(5) The amount of expenses for recording the assignment of the security to the United States.
