
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 202 - APPROVAL OF LENDING INSTITUTIONS AND MORTGAGEES
###### Subpart A - General Requirements
####### § 202.3 Approval status for lenders and mortgagees.
######## Initial approval.

(a)A lender or mortgagee may be approved for participation in the Title I or Title II programs upon filing a request for approval on a form prescribed by the Secretary and signed by the applicant. The approval form shall be accompanied by such documentation as may be prescribed by the Secretary.

(1) Approval is signified by:

(i) The Secretary's agreement that the lender or mortgagee is considered approved under the Title I or Title II programs, except as otherwise ordered by the Mortgagee Review Board or an officer or subdivision of the Department to which the Mortgagee Review Board has delegated its power, unless the lender or mortgagee voluntarily relinquishes its approval;

(ii) Consent by the lender or mortgagee to comply at all times with the general approval requirements of § 202.5, and with additional requirements governing the particular class of lender or mortgagee for which it was approved as described under subpart B at §§ 202.6 through 202.10; and

(iii) Under the Title I program, the issuance of a Contract of Insurance constitutes an agreement between the Secretary and the lender and which governs participation in the Title I program.

(2) Limitations on approval:

(i) Separate approval as lender or mortgagee is required for participation in the Title I or Title II programs, respectively. Application must be made, and approval will be granted, on the basis of one or both categories of programs, as is appropriate.

(ii) Separate approval as mortgagee is required for the Single Family Mortgage Insurance Programs and for the Multifamily Mortgage Insurance Programs. Application must be made, and approval will be granted, on the basis of either or both categories, as is appropriate.

(iii) In addition to the requirements for approval as a Title II mortgagee, the Secretary may from time to time issue eligibility requirements for participation in specific programs, such as the Direct Endorsement program.

(iv) A Title II mortgagee may be approved to operate either on a nationwide basis or on a geographically restricted basis in only those areas designated by the Secretary.

(v) A Title I lender may originate loans or purchase advances of credit only within a geographic lending area approved by the Secretary. Expansion of this lending area shall be subject to a determination by the Secretary that the lender is able to originate loans in compliance with part 201 of this chapter within such expanded area.
