
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 202 - APPROVAL OF LENDING INSTITUTIONS AND MORTGAGEES
###### Subpart A - General Requirements
####### ยง 202.5 General approval standards.
######## Business form.

(a)(1) The lender or mortgagee shall be a corporation or other chartered institution, a permanent organization having succession, or a partnership. A partnership must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Each general partner must be a corporation or other chartered institution consisting of two or more persons.

(ii) One general partner must be designated as the managing general partner. The managing general partner shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), and (f) of this section. The managing general partner must have as its principal activity the management of one or more partnerships, all of which are mortgage lenders or property improvement or manufactured home lenders, and must have exclusive authority to deal directly with the Secretary on behalf of each partnership. Newly admitted partners must agree to the management of the partnership by the designated managing general partner. If the managing general partner withdraws or is removed from the partnership for any reason, a new managing general partner shall be substituted, and the Secretary shall be immediately notified of the substitution.

(iii) The partnership agreement shall specify that the partnership shall exist for the minimum term of years required by the Secretary. All insured mortgages and Title I loans held by the partnership shall be transferred to a lender or mortgagee approved under this part prior to the termination of the partnership. The partnership shall be specifically authorized to continue its existence if a partner withdraws.

(iv) The Secretary must be notified immediately of any amendments to the partnership agreement that would affect the partnership's actions under the Title I or Title II programs.
