
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 202 - APPROVAL OF LENDING INSTITUTIONS AND MORTGAGEES
###### Subpart B - Classes of Lenders and Mortgagees
####### ยง 202.10 Governmental institutions, Government-sponsored enterprises, public housing agencies and State housing agencies.
######## Definition.

(a)A Federal, State or municipal governmental agency, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or the Federal National Mortgage Association may be an approved lender or mortgagee. A mortgagee approved under this section may submit applications for Title II mortgage insurance. A lender or mortgagee approved under this section may originate, purchase, service or sell Title I loans and insured mortgages, respectively. A mortgagee or lender approved under this section is not required to meet a net worth requirement. A mortgagee shall maintain fidelity bond coverage and errors and omissions insurance acceptable to the Secretary and in an amount required by the Secretary, or alternative insurance coverage approved by the Secretary, that assures the faithful performance of the responsibilities of the mortgagee. There are no additional requirements beyond the general approval requirements in ยง 202.5 or as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.
