
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Direct Endorsement, Lender Insurance, and Commitments
######## § 203.3 Approval of mortgagees for Direct Endorsement.
######### Special requirements.

(b)The mortgagee must establish that it meets the following qualifications.

(1) The mortgagee has five years of experience in the origination of single family mortgages. The Secretary will approve a mortgagee with less than five years experience in the origination of single family mortgages if a principal officer has had a minimum of five years of managerial experience in the origination of single family mortgages.

(2) The mortgagee has on its permanent staff an underwriter that is authorized by the mortgagee to bind the mortgagee on matters involving the origination of mortgages through the Direct Endorsement procedure and that is registered with the Secretary and such registration is maintained with the Secretary. The technical staff may be employees of the mortgagee or may be hired on a fee basis from a roster maintained by the Secretary. The mortgagee shall use appraisers permitted by § 203.5(e).

(3) [Reserved]

(4) The mortgagee must submit initially 15 mortgages processed in accordance with §§ 203.5 and 203.255. Separate approval is required to originate mortgages under part 206 of this chapter through the Direct Endorsement program unless at least 50 mortgages closed by the mortgagee have been insured under part 206 of this chapter prior to September 15, 1995. Other mortgagees who have not closed at least 50 mortgages under part 206 of this chapter must submit five (5) Home Equity Conversion Mortgages, processed in accordance with §§ 203.3 and 203.255. The documents required by § 203.255 will be reviewed by the Secretary and, if acceptable, commitments will be issued prior to endorsement of the mortgages for insurance. If the underwriting and processing of these 15 mortgages (or the 5 Home Equity Conversion Mortgages) is satisfactory, then the mortgagee may be approved to close subsequent mortgages and submit them directly for endorsement for insurance in accordance with the process set forth in § 203.255. Unsatisfactory performance by the mortgagee at this stage constitutes grounds for denial of participation in the program, or for continued pre-endorsement review of a mortgagee's submissions. If participation in the program is denied, such denial is effective immediately and may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Unsatisfactory performance solely with respect to mortgages under 24 CFR part 206 may, at the option of the Secretary, be grounds for denial of participation or for continued pre-endorsement review for 24 CFR part 206 mortgages without affecting the mortgagee's processing of mortgages under other parts.

(5) The mortgagee shall promptly notify those HUD offices which have granted approval under this section of any changes that affect qualifications under this section.

(c) [Reserved]
