
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Direct Endorsement, Lender Insurance, and Commitments
######## ยง 203.3 Approval of mortgagees for Direct Endorsement.
######### Termination of Direct Endorsement approval.

(2)(i) A mortgagee's approval to participate in the Direct Endorsement program may be terminated in a particular jurisdiction by the local HUD office or on a nationwide basis by HUD Central Office. The HUD office instituting the termination action shall provide the mortgagee with written notice of the grounds for the action and of the right to an informal hearing before the office initiating the termination action. Such hearing shall be expeditiously arranged, and the mortgagee may be represented by counsel. Any termination instituted under this section is distinct from withdrawal of mortgagee approval by the Mortgagee Review Board under part 25 of this title.

(ii) After consideration of the materials presented, the decision maker shall advise the mortgagee in writing whether the termination is rescinded, modified or affirmed.

(iii) The mortgagee may appeal such decision to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing or his or her designee. A decision by the Deputy Assistant Secretary or designee shall constitute final agency action.

(iv) Termination of an origination approval agreement under part 202 of this chapter for a mortgagee or one or more branch offices automatically terminates Direct Endorsement approval for the mortgagee or the branch office or offices without any further requirement to comply with this paragraph.
