
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Miscellaneous Regulations
######## ยง 203.12 Mortgage insurance on proposed or new construction.
######### Procedures.

(b)(1) Applications for insurance to which this section applies will be processed in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Secretary. These procedures may only provide for endorsement for insurance of a mortgage covering a dwelling that is:

(i) Approved under the Direct Endorsement Program or the Lender Insurance Program; or

(ii) Located in a subdivision approved by the Rural Housing Service.

(2) The mortgagee must submit a signed Builder's Certification of Plans, Specifications and Site (Builder's Certification). The Builder's Certification must be in a form prescribed by the Secretary and must cover:

(i) Flood hazards;

(ii) Noise;

(iii) Explosive and flammable materials storage hazards;

(iv) Runway clear zones/clear zones;

(v) Toxic waste hazards;

(vi) Other foreseeable hazards or adverse conditions (i.e., rock formations, unstable soils or slopes, high ground water levels, inadequate surface drainage, springs, etc.) that may affect the health and safety of the occupants or the structural soundness of the improvements. The Builder's Certification must be provided to the appraiser for reference before the performance of an appraisal on the property.

(3) If a builder (or developer) intends to sell five or more properties in a subdivision, an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan (AFHMP) that meets the requirements of 24 CFR part 200, subpart M must be submitted and approved by HUD no later than the date of the first application for mortgage insurance in that subdivision. Thereafter, applications for insurance on other properties sold by the same builder (or developer) in the same subdivision may make reference to the existing previously approved AFHMP.
