
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## ยง 203.43a Eligibility of mortgages covering housing in certain neighborhoods.

(a) A mortgage financing the repair, rehabilitation, construction, or purchase of property located in an older declining urban area shall be eligible for insurance under this subpart subject to compliance with the additional requirements of this section.

(b) The mortgage shall meet all of the requirements of this subpart, except such requirements as are judged to be not applicable on the basis of the following determinations to be made by the Commissioner:

(1) That the conditions of the area in which the property is located prevent the application of certain eligibility requirements of this subpart.

(2) That the area is reasonably viable, and there is a need in the area for adequate housing for families of low and moderate income.

(3) That the mortgage to be insured is an acceptable risk.

(c) Mortgages complying with the requirements of this section shall be insured under this subpart pursuant to section 223(e) of the National Housing Act. Such mortgages shall be insured under and be the obligation of the Special Risk Insurance Fund.

(d) For restrictions against approving mortgage insurance for a certain category of newly legalized alien, see 24 CFR part 49.
