
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## § 203.47 Eligibility of growing equity mortgages.

A mortgage containing provisions for accelerated amortization corresponding to anticipated variations in family income shall be eligible for insurance under this subpart, subject to compliance with the additional requirements of this section.

(a) The mortgage must contain complete amortization provisions, satisfactory to the Secretary, requiring monthly payments by the mortgagor not in excess of the mortgagor's reasonable ability to pay, as determined by the Secretary.

(b) The mortgage must contain a provision setting forth the payments required for principal and interest in each year of the mortgage.

(c) The monthly payments for principal and interest for the initial year, or such other initial period as the commissioner may approve, shall be determined on the basis of a 30-year level payment amortization schedule. Subsequent monthly payments for principal and interest may increase annually, biennially or at such other interval that is greater than one year, as the Commissioner may approve. The subsequent periodic increases may be up to five percent above the payments for principal and interest for the previous period.

(d) No later than at the time that a loan application is offered to a prospective mortgagor, the mortgagee shall explain fully to the mortgagor the nature of the obligation undertaken and the mortgagor shall certify that he or she fully understands the obligation.

(e) The mortgage amount shall not exceed the limits prescribed by § 203.18, 203.18a, or 203.29.

(f) Sections 203.21 and 203.44 shall not apply to this section.

(g) This section shall not apply to a mortgage which meets the requirements of § 203.43, § 203.43a, or § 203.49.

(h) Mortgages complying with the requirements of this section shall be insured under this subpart pursuant to section 245(a) of the National Housing Act.
