
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## ยง 203.49 Eligibility of adjustable rate mortgages.
######### Magnitude of changes.

(f)The adjustable rate mortgage initial contract interest rate shall be agreed upon by the mortgagee and the mortgagor. The first adjustment to the contract interest rate shall take place in accordance with the schedule set forth under paragraph (d) of this section. Thereafter, for all adjustable rate mortgages, the adjustment shall be made annually and shall occur on the anniversary date of the first adjustment, subject to the following conditions and limitations:

(1) For one- and three-year adjustable rate mortgages, no single adjustment to the interest rate shall result in a change in either direction of more than one percentage point from the interest rate in effect for the period immediately preceding that adjustment. Index changes in excess of one percentage point may not be carried over for inclusion in an adjustment for a subsequent year. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage may not result in a change in either direction of more than five percentage points from the initial contract interest rate.

(2) For five-, seven-, and ten-year adjustable rate mortgages, no single adjustment to the interest rate shall result in a change in either direction of more than two percentage points from the interest rate in effect for the period immediately preceding that adjustment. Index changes in excess of two percentage points may not be carried over for inclusion in an adjustment in a subsequent year. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage may not result in a change in either direction of more than six percentage points from the initial contract rate.

(3) At each adjustment date, changes in the index interest rate, whether increases or decreases, must be translated into the adjusted mortgage interest rate, except that the mortgage may provide for minimum interest rate change limitations and for minimum increments of interest rate changes.
