
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## ยง 203.52 Acceptance of individual residential water purification equipment.
######### Certification by local (or state) health authority.

(b)A local (or state) health authority certification must be submitted to HUD which certifies that:

(1) A point-of-entry or point-of-use water purification system is currently in operation on the property. If the system in operation employs point-of-use equipment, the purification system must be employed on each water supply source (faucet) serving the property. Where point-of-entry systems are used, separate water supply systems carrying untreated water for flushing toilets may be constructed.

(2) The system is sufficient to assure an uninterrupted supply of safe and potable water adequate to meet household needs.

(3) The water supply, when treated by the equipment, meets the requirements of the local (or state) health authority, and has been determined to meet local or state quality standards for drinking water. If neither state nor local standards are applicable, then quality shall be determined in accordance with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. (EPA standards are prescribed in the National Primary Drinking Water requirements, 40 CFR parts 141 and 142.)

(4) There exists a Plan providing for the monitoring, servicing, maintenance, and replacement of the water equipment, which Plan meets the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
