
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## ยง 203.52 Acceptance of individual residential water purification equipment.
######### Mortgagor notice and certification.

(c)(1) The prospective mortgagor must have received written notification, before the mortgagor signed a sales contract, that the property has a hazardous water supply that requires treatment in order to remain safe and acceptable for human consumption. The notification to the mortgagor must identify specific contaminants in the water supply serving the property, and the related health hazard arising from the presence of those contaminants.

(2) The mortgagor must have received, with the notification described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a written good faith estimate of the maintenance and replacement costs of the equipment necessary to assure continuing safe drinking water.

(3) A copy of the notification statement (including cost estimates), dated before the date of the sales contract, and signed by the prospective mortgagor to acknowledge its receipt, must accompany the submission for insurance endorsement. If a sales contract is signed in advance of the disclosure required by this paragraph, another sales contract must be executed after the information is provided to the prospective mortgagor and he or she has acknowledged receipt of the disclosure.

(4) The prospective mortgagor must sign a certification, substantially in the form set out in this paragraph (c)(4), at the time the application for mortgage credit approval is signed. This certification must be submitted to HUD:
