
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## ยง 203.52 Acceptance of individual residential water purification equipment.
######### Escrow for maintenance and replacement.

(e)The mortgagee must establish and maintain an escrow account which provides for the accumulation of funds paid with the mortgagor's monthly mortgage payment adequate to assure proper servicing, maintenance, repair and replacement of the water purification equipment. The amount to be collected and escrowed by the mortgagee shall be based upon information provided by the manufacturer for the maintenance and replacement of the water purification equipment and for other charges anticipated by the service contractor. The initial monthly escrow amount shall be stated in the Plan. Disbursements from the account will be limited to costs associated with the normal servicing, maintenance, repair or replacement of the water purification equipment. Disbursements may only be made to the service contractor or its successor, to equipment suppliers, to the local (or state) health authority for the performance of testing or other required services, or to another entity approved by the health authority. So long as water purification remains necessary and the mortgage is insured by HUD, the mortgagee must maintain the escrow account.
