
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Eligibility Requirements and Underwriting Procedures
####### Eligible Properties
######## ยง 203.52 Acceptance of individual residential water purification equipment.
######### Approved Plan.

(f)A Plan, in the form of a contract entered into by the mortgagor and mortgagee and approved by the local (or state) health authority, must set out conditions that must be met by the parties as a condition to insurance of the mortgage by HUD. To be approved by the health authority:

(1) The Plan must set forth the respective responsibilities to be assumed by the mortgagor and the mortgagee, as well as the other entities who will implement the Plan, i.e., the health authority and the service contractor. In particular:

(i) The Plan must set out the responsibilities of the health authority for monitoring and enforcing performance of the service contractor, including any successor contractor that the health authority may later have occasion to name. By its approval of the Plan, the health authority documents its acceptance of these responsibilities, and the Plan should so indicate;

(ii) The Plan must provide for the monitoring of the operation of the water purification equipment, as well as for servicing (including disinfecting), and for repairing and replacing the system, as frequently as necessary, taking into consideration the system's design, anticipated use, and the type and level of contaminants present. Installation, servicing, repair and replacement of the water purification system must be performed by an individual or organization approved for the purpose by the local (or state) health authority and identified in the Plan. In meeting the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the Plan may incorporate by reference specific terms and conditions of the service contract required under paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) Under the Plan, responsibility for monitoring the performance of the service contractor and for assuring that the water purification system is properly serviced, repaired, and replaced rests with the local (or state) health authority that has given its approval to the Plan. The Plan must confer on the health authority all powers necessary to effect compliance by the service contractor. The health authority's powers shall include the authority to notify the mortgagor of any noncompliance by the service contractor. The plan must provide that, upon any notification of noncompliance received from the health authority, the mortgagor shall have the right to discharge the service contractor for cause and to appoint a successor organization or individual as service contractor; and

(iv) The Plan must provide for the mortgagor to make periodic escrow payments necessary for the servicing, maintenance, repair and replacement of the water purification system, and for the mortgagee to disburse funds from the escrow account as required, to the appropriate party or parties.

(2) The Plan must provide that if the dwelling served by the water purification system is refinanced, or is sold or otherwise transferred with a HUD-insured mortgage, the Plan will:

(i) Continue in full force and effect;

(ii) Impose an obligation on the mortgagor to notify any subsequent purchaser or transferee of the necessity for the water purification system and for its proper maintenance, and of the obligation to make escrow payments; and

(iii) Require the mortgagor to furnish the purchaser with a copy of the Plan, before any sales contract is signed.
