
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Claim Procedure
######## ยง 203.365 Documents and information to be furnished the Secretary; claims review.
######### Claim file to be maintained by mortgagee.

(c)(1) The Secretary may verify the accuracy of information regarding the insurance claim either before payment of the claim or after payment by periodic reviews of the mortgagee's records. Mortgagees must reimburse the Secretary for any claim and interest overpaid because of incorrect, unsupported, or inappropriate information provided by the mortgagee, or because of failure to provide correct information.

(2) Mortgagees must maintain a claim file containing documentation supporting all information submitted for claim payment for at least three years after a claim has been paid. All claim files for claims paid during a period relating to an unresolved or ongoing claim review must be maintained until final resolution of such review. Information to be maintained in the claim file includes receipts covering all disbursements as required by the fiscal data form, ledger cards covering the mortgage transaction, and any additional information or data relevant to the mortgage transaction or insurance claim.

(3) The Secretary may review any claim file at any time during the three-year period after the claim has been paid. Denial of access to any files will be grounds for withdrawal of the mortgagee's approved lender status, debarment by the Secretary, or immediate suspension of all claim payments.

(4) Within 24 hours of a request by the Secretary, a mortgagee must make available for review, or forward to the Secretary, hard copies of identified claim files.
