
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 203 - SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart C - Servicing Responsibilities
####### Occupied Conveyance
######## § 203.677 Decision to approve or deny a request.

(a) The HUD Field Office will provide written notification of its decision to an occupant who makes a timely request to continue to occupy the property. The decision of the HUD Field Office on this matter will be made by the Chief, Property Disposition. If the decision is to deny the request, the notice to the occupant will include a statement of the reason or reasons for the decision and of the occupant's right to appeal. The occupant may appeal HUD's decision within 20 days after the date of HUD's notice. The appeal must be addressed to the Field Office Manager and be in writing, and the occupant may provide documentation intended to refute the reasons given for HUD's decision. The occupant may also request an informal conference with a representative of the HUD Field Office Manager. A request for an informal conference must be made in writing within 10 days after the date of HUD's notice. The occupant may be represented at the conference by counsel or by other persons with pertinent expert knowledge or experience.

(b) After notification that HUD has denied a request for continued occupancy, the occupant, on his or her request, shall be permitted to review all relevant material in HUD's possession (including a copy of the inspection report if the request is denied because the property is not habitable as defined in § 203.673). Only material in HUD's possession that directly pertains to conditions for continued occupancy under §§ 203.670, 203.673, and 203.674 may be considered material relevant for an occupant's review under this paragraph. This review shall be limited to a review of material for purposes of the informal conference or the appeal of the Department's decision. The information will only be provided after request for an informal conference or appeal has been submitted to HUD.

(c) After consideration of an appeal, the HUD Field Office will notify the applicant in writing of HUD's final decision. This final decision will be made by the HUD Field Office Manager or a representative of the Field Office Manager (other than the Chief, Property Disposition). If the decision is to deny the occupant's request, the notice to the occupant will reflect consideration of the issues raised by the occupant.

(d) If, after consideration of an appeal, the Field Office Manager denies the request for new or additional reasons, the occupant will be afforded an opportunity to request that the Field Office Manager reconsider its decision under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
