
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Eligibility; Endorsement
####### Eligible Mortgages
######## § 206.25 Calculation of disbursements.
######### Monthly disbursements-term option.

(e)(1) Using factors provided by the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall calculate the monthly disbursement so that the sum of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) or (e)(1)(ii) of this section added to paragraphs (e)(1)(iii), (e)(1)(iv), and (e)(1)(v) of this section shall be equal to the principal limit at the end of the payment term.

(i) An initial disbursement under paragraph (a) of this section plus any initial servicing charge set aside under § 206.19(f)(3); or

(ii) The outstanding loan balance at the time of a change in payment option in accordance with § 206.26, plus any remaining servicing charge set aside under § 206.19(f)(3); and

(iii) The amount of the principal limit set aside in accordance with § 206.19(f) which is not included in the amount set aside in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) or (e)(1)(ii) of this section;

(iv) All MIP or monthly charges due to the Commissioner in lieu of mortgage insurance premiums due through the payment term; and

(v) All interest through the remainder of the payment term. The expected average mortgage interest rate shall be used for this purpose.

(2) The mortgagee shall make all monthly disbursements through the payment term even if the outstanding loan balance exceeds the principal limit because the actual average mortgage interest rate exceeds the expected average mortgage interest rate unless the HECM becomes due and payable under § 206.27(c). In the event of a deferral of due and payable status in accordance with § 206.27(c)(3), disbursements shall cease immediately upon the death of the borrower and no further disbursements are permissible.

(3) Mortgagees shall ensure that term monthly disbursements made to the borrower during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period do not exceed the Initial Disbursement Limit. If the sum of disbursements made during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period would exceed the Initial Disbursement Limit for that time period, the mortgagee shall decrease the monthly disbursements during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period to conform with the Initial Disbursement Limit; upon conclusion of the First 12-Month Disbursement Period, the borrower may request a payment plan recalculation.

(4) If the borrower makes a partial prepayment of the outstanding loan balance during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period, the mortgagee shall apply the funds from the partial prepayment in accordance with the Note.

(5) If the mortgagee receives repayment from insurance or condemnation proceeds after restoration or repair of the damaged property, the available principal limit and outstanding loan balance shall be reduced by the amount of such payments.
