
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Eligibility; Endorsement
####### Eligible Mortgages
######## § 206.27 Mortgage provisions.
######### Provisions.

(b)The terms of the mortgage shall contain an explanation of how payments will be made to the borrower, how interest will be charged, and when the mortgage will be due and payable. The mortgage shall include a provision deferring the due and payable status that occurs because of the death of the last surviving borrower for an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse. It shall also contain provisions designed to ensure compliance with this part and provisions on the following additional matters:

(1) Disbursements by the mortgagee under the term or tenure payment options shall be mailed to the borrower or electronically transferred to an account of the borrower on the first business day of each month beginning with the first month after closing. Disbursements under the line of credit payment option shall be mailed to the borrower or electronically transferred to an account of the borrower within five business days after the mortgagee has received a written request for disbursement by the borrower. In accordance with § 206.55, in no event may disbursements continue during a Deferral Period.

(2) The borrower shall insure all improvements on the property that serves as collateral for the HECM whether in existence at the time of origination or subsequently erected, against any hazards, casualties, and contingencies, including but not limited to fire and flood, for which the mortgagee requires insurance. Such insurance shall be maintained in the amount and for the period of time that is necessary to protect the mortgagee's investment. Whether or not the mortgagee imposes a flood insurance requirement, the borrower shall at a minimum insure all improvements on the property, whether in existence at the time of origination or subsequently erected, against loss by floods to the extent required by the Commissioner. If the mortgagee imposes insurance requirements, all insurance shall be carried with companies acceptable to the mortgagee, and the insurance policies and any renewals shall be held by the mortgagee and shall include loss payable clauses in favor of and in a form acceptable to the mortgagee.

(3) The borrower shall not participate in a real estate tax deferral program or permit any liens to be recorded against the property, unless such liens are subordinate to the insured mortgage and, if applicable, any second mortgage held by the Commissioner.

(4) A mortgage may be prepaid in full or in part in accordance with § 206.209.

(5) The borrower must keep the property in good repair.

(6) The borrower must provide for the payment of property charges in accordance with § 206.205.

(7) The payment of monthly MIP may be added to the outstanding principal balance.

(8) The borrower shall have no personal liability for payment of the outstanding loan balance. The mortgagee shall enforce the debt only through sale of the property. The mortgagee shall not be permitted to obtain a deficiency judgment against the borrower if the mortgage is foreclosed.

(9) If the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner under § 206.121(b), the borrower shall not be liable for any difference between the insurance benefits paid to the mortgagee and the outstanding loan balance including accrued interest, owed by the borrower at the time of the assignment.

(10) If State law limits the first lien status of the mortgage as originally executed and recorded to a maximum amount of debt or a maximum number of years, the borrower shall agree to execute any additional documents required by the mortgagee and approved by the Commissioner to extend the first lien status to an additional amount of debt and an additional number of years and to cause any other liens to be removed or subordinated.
