
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Eligibility; Endorsement
####### Eligible Mortgages
######## ยง 206.31 Allowable charges and fees.
######### Loan Origination Fee.

(1)Mortgagees may charge a loan origination fee and may use such fee to pay for services performed by a sponsored third-party originator. The loan origination fee limit shall be the greater of $2,500 or two percent of the maximum claim amount of $200,000, plus one percent of any portion of the maximum claim amount that is greater than $200,000. Mortgagees may accept a lower origination fee. Mortgagees may pay fees for services performed by a sponsored third-party originator and these fees may be included as part of the loan origination fee. The total amount of the loan origination fee may not exceed $6,000, except that the Commissioner may through notice adjust the maximum limit in accordance with the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor in increments of $500 only when the percentage increase in such index, when applied to the maximum origination fee, produces dollar increases that exceed $500. The loan origination fee may be fully financed with the mortgage.
