
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Eligibility; Endorsement
####### Eligible Properties
########***.*** ######### ยง 206.52 Eligible sale of property-HECM for Purchase
########## Authority to address property flipping for re-sales occurring between 91 days and 12 months following acquisition.

(4)(i) If the re-sale date is more than 90 days after the date of acquisition by the seller, but before the end of the twelfth month after the date of acquisition, the property is eligible for a mortgage to be insured by FHA.

(ii) However, FHA may require that the mortgagee provide additional documentation to support the re-sale value of the property if the re-sale price is 5 percent or greater than the lowest sales price of the property during the preceding 12 months (as evidenced by the contract of sale). At FHA's discretion, such documentation must include, but is not limited to, an appraisal from another appraiser. FHA may exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements.

(iii) If the additional value documentation supports a value of the property that is more than 5 percent lower than the value supported by the first appraisal, the lower value will be used to calculate the maximum claim amount. Otherwise, the value supported by the first appraisal will be used to calculate the maximum claim amount.

(iv) FHA will announce its determination to require additional value documentation through issuance of anotice. The requirement for additional value documentation may be established either on a nationwide or regional basis. Further, thenotice will specify the percentage increase in the re-sale price that will trigger the need for additional documentation, and will specify the acceptable types of documentation. Thenotice may also exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements. Any suchnotice, and any subsequent revisions, will be issued at least thirty days before taking effect.

(v) The level at which additional documentation is required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall supersede that under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
