
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart C - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Sale, Assignment and Pledge
######## ยง 206.101 Sale, assignment and pledge of insured mortgages.
######### Assignments, pledges and transfers by approved mortgagee.

(d)(1) An assignment, pledge, or transfer of a mortgage or group of mortgages insured under this part, not constituting a final sale, may be made by an approved mortgagee to another approved mortgagee provided the following requirements are met:

(i) The assignor, pledgor or transferor shall remain the mortgagee of record.

(ii) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with any party other than the mortgagee of record with respect to the rights, benefits and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance.

(2) An assignment or transfer of an insured mortgage or group of insured mortgages may be made by an approved mortgagee to other than an approved mortgagee provided the requirements under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section are met and the following additional requirements are met:

(i) The assignee or transferee shall be a corporation, trust or organization (including but not limited to any pension trust or profit-sharing plan) which certifies to the approved mortgagee that:

(A) It has assets of $100,000 or more; and

(B) It has lawful authority to hold an insured mortgage or group of insured mortgages.

(ii) The assignment or transfer shall be made pursuant to an agreement under which the transferor or assignor is obligated to take one of the following alternate courses of action within 1 year from the date of the assignment or within such additional period of time as may be approved by the Commissioner:

(A) The transferor or assignor shall repurchase and accept a reassignment of such mortgage or group of mortgages.

(B) The transferor or assignor shall obtain a sale and transfer of such mortgage or group of mortgages to an approved mortgagee.

(3) Notice to or approval of the Commissioner is not required in connection with assignments, pledges or transfers pursuant to this section.
