
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart C - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Claim Procedure
######## ยง 206.125 Acquisition and sale of the property.
######### sell

(ii) Sell the property for an amount not to be less than the amount determined by the Commissioner through notice, which shall not exceed 95 percent of the appraised value as determined under ยง 206.125(b), with the net proceeds of the sale to be applied towards the outstanding loan balance. Closing costs shall not exceed the greater of: 11 percent of the sales price; or a fixed dollar amount as determined by the Commissioner throughnotice. For the purposes of this section,includes the transfer of title by operation of law;

(iii) Provide the mortgagee with a deed in lieu of foreclosure;

(iv) Correct the condition which resulted in the mortgage coming due and payable for reasons other than the death of the last surviving borrower;

(v) For an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, correct the condition which resulted in an end to the Deferral Period in accordance with ยง 206.57; or

(vi) Such other actions as permitted by the Commissioner through notice.

(3) For a borrower, even after a foreclosure proceeding is begun, the mortgagee shall permit the borrower to correct the condition which resulted in the mortgage coming due and payable and to reinstate the mortgage, and the mortgage insurance shall continue in effect. The mortgagee may require the borrower to pay any costs that the mortgagee incurred to reinstate the borrower, including foreclosure costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Such costs shall be paid by adding them to the outstanding loan balance. The mortgagee may refuse reinstatement by the borrower if:

(i) The mortgagee has accepted reinstatement of the mortgage within the past two years immediately preceding the current notification to the borrower that the mortgage is due and payable;

(ii) Reinstatement will preclude foreclosure if the mortgage becomes due and payable at a later date; or

(iii) Reinstatement will adversely affect the priority of the mortgage lien.

(4) For an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, even after a foreclosure proceeding is begun, the mortgagee shall permit the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to cure the condition which resulted in the Deferral Period ceasing, in accordance with ยง 206.57(d).
