
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart C - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Claim Procedure
######## ยง 206.125 Acquisition and sale of the property.
######### Initiation of foreclosure.

(d)(1) The mortgagee shall commence foreclosure of the mortgage within six months of the due date defined in ยง 206.129(d)(1), or within such additional time as may be approved by the Commissioner.

(2) If the laws of the State, city, or municipality or other political subdivision in which the mortgaged property is located or if Federal bankruptcy law does not permit the commencement of the foreclosure in accordance with ยง 206.125(d)(1), the mortgagee shall commence foreclosure within six months after the expiration of the time during which such foreclosure is prohibited by such laws.

(3) The mortgagee shall give written notice to the Commissioner within 30 days after the initiation of foreclosure proceedings, and shall exercise reasonable diligence in prosecuting the foreclosure proceedings to completion and in acquiring title to and possession of the property. A time frame that is determined by the Commissioner to constitute "reasonable diligence" for each State is made available to mortgagees.

(4) The mortgagee shall bid at the foreclosure sale an amount at least equal to the lesser of the sum of the outstanding loan balance and any and all other incurred expenses, or the current appraised value of the property. Such a bid by any party other than the mortgagee, for the full loan balance and all associated expenses, will result in a full payoff of the loan and no claim for insurance benefits being presented to FHA.
