
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart C - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Claim Procedure
######## ยง 206.125 Acquisition and sale of the property.
######### Sale of the acquired property.

(g)(1) Upon acquisition of the property by foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure, the mortgagee shall take possession of, preserve, and repair the property and shall make diligent efforts to sell the property within six months from the date the mortgagee acquired the property, or such additional time as provided by the Commissioner. The mortgagee shall sell the property for an amount not less than the appraised value (as provided under paragraph (b) of this section) unless the mortgagee does not file an application for insurance benefits or written permission is obtained from the Commissioner authorizing a sale at a lower price.

(2) Repairs shall not exceed those required by local law, or the requirements of the Commissioner or the Secretary of Veterans Affairs if the sale of the property is financed with a mortgage insured by the Commissioner or guaranteed, insured, or taken by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. No other repairs shall be made without the specific advance approval of the Commissioner.

(3) The mortgagee shall not enter into a contract for the preservation, repair, or sale of the property with any officer, employee, or owner of ten percent or more interest in the mortgagee or with any other person or organization having an identity of interest with the mortgagee or with any relative of such officer, employee, owner, or person.

(4) The Commissioner may provide financial incentive, in an amount to be determined by the Commissioner, to be paid by the mortgagee and reimbursed through a subsequent claim when a bona fide tenant vacates the property prior to an eviction being initiated by the mortgagee.
