
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart D - Servicing Responsibilities
#######***.*** ######## ยง 206.203 Providing information
######### Servicing-Providing information.

(c)(1) Mortgagees shall provide loan information to borrowers and arrange for individual loan consultation on request. The mortgagee must establish written procedures and controls to assure prompt responses to inquiries. One or more of the following means of making information readily available to borrowers is required:

(i) A servicing office staffed with competent personnel located within 200 miles of the property, capable of providing timely responses to requests for information. Complete records need not be maintained in such an office if the staff is able to secure needed information and pass it on to the borrower.

(ii) Toll-free telephone service at an office capable of providing needed information.

(2)(i) All borrowers must be informed of and reminded annually of the system available for obtaining answers to loan inquiries and the office from which needed information may be obtained. Toll-free telephone service need not be provided to a borrower other than at the office designated to serve the borrower nor other than from the immediate vicinity of the security property.

(ii) The mortgagee shall provide the borrower with the telephone number where the borrower may speak to employee(s) specifically designated by the mortgagee or its servicer to address inquiries concerning mortgages insured under this part. Such information shall be provided annually and whenever the servicer or the designated employee (or employee group) changes.

(3) Mortgagees must respond to FHA requests for information concerning individual accounts.
