
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 206 - HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart E - HECM Counselor Roster
####### ยง 206.306 Removal from the HECM Counselor Roster.
######## Removal procedure.

(d)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following procedures apply to removal of a HECM counselor from the Roster.

(1) FHA will give the HECM counselor written notice of the proposed removal. The notice will state the reasons for and the duration of the proposed removal.

(2) The HECM counselor will have 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice (or such time as described in the notice, but in no event less than a period of 30 days) to submit a written appeal of the proposed removal, along with a written request for a conference.

(3) An FHA official will review the appeal and render a response affirming, modifying, or canceling the removal. The FHA official will not be a person who was involved in FHA's initial removal decision. FHA will respond with a decision within 30 days after the date of receiving the appeal or, if the HECM counselor has requested a conference, within 30 days after the conference was held. FHA may extend the 30-day period by providing written notice to the counselor.

(4) If the HECM counselor does not submit a timely written response, the removal will be effective 31 days after the date of FHA's initial removal notice (or after the period provided in the notice, if longer than 30 days). If a written response is submitted, and the removal decision is affirmed or modified, the removal will be effective on the date of FHA's notice affirming or modifying the initial removal decision.
