
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 207 - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Rights and Duties of Mortgagee Under the Contract of Insurance
######## ยง 207.258 Insurance claim requirements.
######### Foreclosure of mortgage.

(2)The mortgagee may elect to commence foreclosure proceedings. If the laws of the State where the property is located do not permit institution of foreclosure within such 30-day period, foreclosure shall be commenced not less than 30 days after such action can be taken. Under such proceedings, the mortgagee shall take one of the following actions:

(i) Obtain possession of the mortgaged property and the income therefrom through the voluntary surrender thereof by the mortgagor.

(ii) Institute and prosecute with reasonable diligence, proceedings for the appointment of a receiver to manage the mortgaged property and collect income therefrom.

(iii) Proceed to exercise such other rights and remedies as may be available to it for the protection and preservation of the mortgaged property and to obtain the income therefrom under the mortgage and the law of the particular jurisdiction.

(iv) With the prior approval of the Commissioner, exercise the power of sale under a deed of trust.
