
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 207 - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Rights and Duties of Mortgagee Under the Contract of Insurance
######## ยง 207.259 Insurance benefits.
######### Issuance of debentures.

(e)Where debentures are issued, they shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Be issued as of the date of default.

(2) Be registered as to principal and interest.

(3) At the option of the Commissioner and with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be redeemable at par plus accrued interest on any semiannual interest payment date on 3 months' notice of redemption given in such manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The debenture interest on the debentures called for redemption shall cease on the semiannual interest payment date designated in the call notice. The Commissioner may include with the notice of redemption an offer to purchase the debentures at par plus accrued interest at any time during the period between the notice of redemption and the redemption date. If the debentures are purchased by the Commissioner after such call and prior to the named redemption date, the debenture interest shall cease on the date of purchase.

(4) Mature 20 years from the date thereof.

(5) Be issued in such forms and amounts; and be subject to such terms and conditions; and include such provisions for redemption, if any, as may be prescribed by the Secretary, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury; and may be in book entry or certificated registered form, or such other form as the Secretary by regulation may prescribe.

(6) Bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment was issued, or as of the date of initial insurance endorsement of the mortgage, whichever rate is higher. The applicable rates of interest will be published twice each year as a notice in the

(7) Debentures representing the portion of the claim applicable to an operating loss loan shall bear interest at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment to insure such loan was issued, or as of the date of endorsement for insurance of such loan, whichever rate is the higher, although debentures representing the portion of the claim applicable to the original mortgage may bear interest at a different rate.
