
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 214 - HOUSING COUNSELING PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Program Administration
####### ยง 214.313 Housing counseling fees.

(a) Participating agencies may charge reasonable and customary fees for housing education and counseling services, as long as the cost does not create a financial hardship for the client. An agency's fee schedule must be posted in a prominent place that is easily viewed by clients, and be available to HUD for review.

(b) Agencies must inform clients of the fee structure in advance of providing services. Clients cannot be charged for client intake.

(c) If any agency chooses to charge fees, the agency must conform to the following guidelines:

(1) Provide counseling without charge to persons who cannot afford the fees;

(2) Fees must be commensurate with the level of services provided;

(3) Agencies may not impose fees upon clients for the same portion of or for an entire service that is already funded with HUD grant funds.

(d) The agency may also be reimbursed from clients for the direct cost of obtaining copies of clients' credit reports from credit reporting bureaus if this does not cause a hardship for the client. In cases where the participating agency receives a discount for the cost of credit reports, this discount must be passed on to the client.
