
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 232 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR NURSING HOMES, INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES, BOARD AND CARE HOMES, AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES
###### Subpart D - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Rights and Duties of Lender Under the Contract of Insurance
######## § 232.885 Insurance benefits.
######### Amount of payment.

(b)Upon an acceptable assignment of the note and security instrument, the Commissioner shall pay the claim of the lender in an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loan as of the date of default determined as follows:

(1) By adding the following items:

(i) Any accrued interest due as of the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.

(ii) Any advances approved by the Commissioner made previously by the lender under the provisions of the note or security instrument or instruments.

(iii) Reimbursement for such reasonable collection costs, court costs, and attorney's fees as may be approved by the Commissioner.

(iv) Any loan insurance premiums paid after default.

(v) If payment is made in cash, an amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned thereon, as of the date such cash payment is made, except when the lender fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of §§ 232.850, 232.875, and 232.880, within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended.

(2) By deducting from the total of the items computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section the following items:

(i) Any amount received by the lender on account of the loan after the date of default.

(ii) Any net income received by the lender from the property covered by the note or security instrument and not applied to prior debts held by that lender.

(iii) The sum of the cash items retained by the lender pursuant to § 232.880(h)(i)(ii).
