
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 232 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR NURSING HOMES, INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES, BOARD AND CARE HOMES, AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES
###### Subpart E - Insurance of Mortgages Covering Existing Projects
####### ยง 232.906 Processing of applications and required fees.
######## Processing of applications.

(a)The local HUD Office will determine whether participation in a preapplication conference is required as a condition to submission of an initial application for either a conditional or firm commitment. After the preapplication conference an application for a conditional or firm commitment for insurance of a mortgage on a project shall be submitted by the sponsor and an approved mortgagee. Such application shall be submitted to the local HUD Office on a HUD approved form. An application may, at the option of the applicant, be submitted for a firm commitment omitting the conditional commitment stage. No application shall be considered unless accompanied by all exhibits required by the form and program handbooks. An application may be made for a commitment which provides for the insurance of the mortgage upon completion of any improvements or for a commitment which provides, in accordance with standards established by the Commissioner, for the completing of specified repairs and improvements after endorsement.
