
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 234 - CONDOMINIUM OWNERSHIP MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Contract Rights and Obligations - Individually Owned Units
####### ยง 234.270 Condition of the multifamily structure.
######## reasonable rate

(3) The mortgagee shall have notified the Commissioner within 30 days (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve) of the cancellation of the fire insurance or of the refusal of the insuring company to renew the fire insurance. This notification shall have been accompanied by a certification of the mortgagee that diligent efforts were made, but it was unable to obtain fire insurance coverage at reasonably competitive rates and that it will continue its efforts to obtain adequate fire insurance coverage at competitive rates, including coverage under the FAIR Plan. Ais a rate not more than 25 percent in excess of the rate or the advisory rate filed or used by the principal rating organization doing business in the state. If the property is located in a state which has no rate or advisory rate as provided in the preceding sentence, the mortgagee shall consult the Director of the local HUD office as to a reasonable rate. When hazard insurance coverage cannot be obtained in an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loan but insurance can be obtained in a reduced amount from a FAIR Plan or another insurance carrier, the Secretary will accept the reduced coverage without reduction of mortgage, insurance benefits, if the rates do not exceed the guidelines stated herein. If coverage in any amount is only available at rates in excess of a reasonable rate as defined herein, the mortgagor may but shall not be required to purchase such coverage. If coverage is purchased, the amount of any claim for insurance benefits under this part shall be reduced by the amount of any recovery of hazard insurance benefits by the mortgagee.

(c) The provisions in paragraph (b) of this section shall be applicable with respect to the insurance of all mortgages whether insured prior to May 8, 1968, or insured on or after such date.

(d) The mortgagee shall not be liable for damage to the property by waste in connection with mortgage insurance claims paid on or after July 2, 1968. However, the mortgagee shall be responsible for damage to or destruction of security properties on which the loans are in default and which properties are vacant or abandoned due to the mortgagee's failure to take reasonable action to inspect, protect and preserve such properties as required by ยง 203.377, as to all mortgages insured on or after June 8, 1977, but such responsibility shall not exceed the amount of its insurance claim as to a particular property.
