
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 234 - CONDOMINIUM OWNERSHIP MORTGAGE INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - Contract Rights and Obligations - Individually Owned Units
####### ยง 234.285 Waived title objections.

The Commissioner shall not object to title by reason of the following matters:

(a) Violations of a restriction based on race, color or creed, even where such restriction provides for a penalty of reversion or forfeiture of title or a lien for liquidated damage.

(b) Easements for public utilities along one or more of the property lines, provided the exercise of the rights thereunder do not interfere with any of the buildings or improvements located on the subject property.

(c) Encroachment on the subject property by improvements on adjoining property, provided such encroachments do not interfere with the use of any improvements on the subject property.

(d) Variations between the length of the subject property lines as shown on the application for insurance and as shown by the record or possession lines, provided such variations do not interfere with the use of any of the improvements on the subject property.

(e) Customary building or use restrictions for breach of which there is no reversion and which have not been violated to a material extent.

(f) Federal tax liens and rights of redemption arising therefrom if the following conditions are observed. If the mortgagee acquires the property by foreclosure the mortgagee shall give notice to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the foreclosure action. The Commissioner will not object to an outstanding right of redemption in IRS if: (1) The Federal tax lien was perfected subsequent to the date of the mortgage lien, and (2) the mortgagee has bid an amount sufficient to make the mortgagee whole if the property is in fact redeemed by the IRS.
