
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 236 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE AND INTEREST REDUCTION PAYMENT FOR RENTAL PROJECTS
###### Subpart C - Interest Reduction Payments
####### ยง 236.510 Term of payments.

(a) The term for which interest reduction payments shall be made shall begin on the following dates:

(1) With respect to a mortgage involving insurance of advances, on the date the Commissioner finally endorses the mortgage not for insurance or such earlier date as may be established by the Commissioner.

(2) With respect to a mortgage insured upon completion, the date on which the Commissioner endorses the mortgage note for insurance.

(b) The term of the interest reduction payments shall end upon the occurrence of one of the following events:

(1) The termination of the contract of insurance, except where the mortgage has been assigned to the Commissioner.

(2) The Commissioner's receipt of the mortgagee's notice of intention to file an insurance claim and to acquire and convey title to the Commissioner pursuant to ยง 207.258(c) of this chapter. In the event the mortgagee fails to provide the Commissioner with such notice of intention within the time specified in ยง 207.258(a) of this chapter, the last day on which the Commissioner should have received the mortgagor's notice shall be deemed the date the Commissioner receives such notice.

(3) At the discretion of the Commissioner, the mortgagor's failure to meet its obligations under the regulatory agreement it has entered into with the Commissioner.

(c) Upon termination of the interest reduction payments contract, the payment due on the first of the month in which the termination occurs shall be the last payment to which the mortgagee shall be entitled.

(d) Where the term of interest reduction payments is ended pursuant to paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section, such interest reduction payment contract may be reinstated by the Commissioner, in his discretion and on such conditions as he may prescribe. In the event of such reinstatement, interest reduction payments will be made to the mortgagee for those months during which such payments were suspended.
