
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 241 - SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR INSURED PROJECT MORTGAGES
###### Subpart C - Eligibility Requirements - Supplemental Loans To Finance Purchase and Installation of Energy Conserving Improvements, Solar Energy Systems, and Individual Utility Meters in Multifamily Projects Without a HUD-Insured or HUD-Held Mortgage
####### Title
######## ยง 241.600 Title evidence.

(a) Upon insurance of the loan, the lender shall furnish to the Commissioner a survey, satisfactory to the Commissioner, and a policy of title insurance as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the lender is unable to furnish such policy for reasons satisfactory to the Commissioner, the lender shall furnish such evidence of title as provided in paragraph (a) (2), (3), or (4) of this section as the Commissioner may require. Any survey, policy of title insurance, or evidence of title required under this section shall be furnished without expense to the Commissioner. The acceptable types of title evidence are:

(1) A policy of title insurance issued by a company and in a form satisfactory to the Commissioner. The policy shall name the lender and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, as their respective interests may appear, as the insured. The policy shall provide that upon acquisition of title by the lender or the Secretary, it will continue to provide the same coverage as the original policy, and will run to the lender upon its acquisition of the property in extinguishment of the debt, and to the Secretary upon acquisition of the property pursuant to the loan insurance contract.

(2) An abstract of title satisfactory to the Commissioner, prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title, accompanied by a legal opinion satisfactory to the Commissioner, as to the quality of such title, signed by an attorney at law experienced in the examination of titles.

(3) A Torrens or similar title certificate.

(4) Evidence of title conforming to the standards of a supervising branch of the Government of the United States of America, or of any State or territory thereof.

(b) The survey required by paragraph (a) of this section need not be furnished in connection with a project where the loan does not exceed $200,000.
