
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 241 - SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR INSURED PROJECT MORTGAGES
###### Subpart C - Eligibility Requirements - Supplemental Loans To Finance Purchase and Installation of Energy Conserving Improvements, Solar Energy Systems, and Individual Utility Meters in Multifamily Projects Without a HUD-Insured or HUD-Held Mortgage
####### Form of Contract
######## ยง 241.610 Assurance of completion.

(a) The borrower shall furnish assurance of completion of the project in the following minimum forms and amounts:

(1) Where the estimated cost of construction of the improvements is $500,000 or less, the borrower shall furnish assurance of completion of the project in the form of a personal indemnity agreement executed by the principal officers, directors, stockholders, or partners of the entity acting as general contractor.

(2) Where the estimated cost of construction of the improvements is more than $500,000 or where such cost is less than $500,000 and a personal indemnity agreement is not executed, the assurance shall be in the form of corporate surety bonds for payment and performance, each in the minimum amount of 25 percent of the construction contract, or a completion assurance agreement secured by a cash deposit in the minimum amount of 15 percent of the amount of the construction contract.

(3) All types of assurance of completion shall be on forms approved by the Commissioner. Any surety company executing a bond and any party executing a personal indemnity agreement must be satisfactory to the Commissioner.

(4) A mortgagee may prescribe more stringent requirements for assurance of completion than the minimum requirements of this section.

(b) The lender may accept, in lieu of a cash deposit required by paragraph (a) of this section, an unconditional irrevocable letter of credit issued to the lender by a banking institution. In the event a demand under the letter of credit is not immediately met, the lender shall forthwith provide cash equivalent to the undrawn balance thereunder.
