
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 241 - SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR INSURED PROJECT MORTGAGES
###### Subpart E - Insurance for Equity Loans and Acquisition Loans - Eligibility Requirements
####### ยง 241.1000 Purpose and scope.

(a) Section 231 of the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1989 ("ELIHPA") amended the National Housing Act by adding a new subsection (f) to section 241. This section authorizes the Secretary to provide insurance for an equity loan as a vehicle for the owner of an eligible multifamily project to capture a portion of the project's equity, in connection with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner under ELIHPA.

(b) Section 602 of the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 ("LIHPRHA") amended section 241 by expanding its scope to include both equity loans for owners, and acquisition loans for purchasers, under a plan of action approved under the provisions of the 1990 Act, and by making other changes. The provisions of section 241(f) as amended by LIHPRHA are applicable to owners with plans of action being processed under part 248, subpart B of this chapter, which implements LIHPRHA.

(c) The provisions of section 241(f) of the Act as they were in effect prior to LIHPRHA remain in effect for owners with plans of action being processed under part 248, subpart C of this chapter, which implements ELIHPA.

(d) The insurance of an equity loan or acquisition loan under subpart E of this part may be provided only as a specific element of a plan of action approved by the Commissioner under part 248 of this chapter and is not available under any other departmental program.

(e) Unless otherwise indicated, the provisions of subparts E and F of this part are applicable to loans insured in connection with plans of action being processed under either subpart B or C of part 248 of this chapter.

(f) An owner or purchaser may obtain both a rehabilitation loan under subpart A of this part and an equity loan or acquisition loan under subpart E of this part.
