
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 5 - GENERAL HUD PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS; WAIVERS
#### Subpart H - Uniform Financial Reporting Standards
##### ยง 5.801 Uniform financial reporting standards.
###### Reporting compliance dates.

(d)Entities (or individuals) that are subject to the reporting requirements in this section must commence compliance with these requirements as follows:

(1) For PHAs listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the requirements of this section will begin with those PHAs with fiscal years ending September 30, 1999 and later. Unaudited financial statements will be required 60 days after the PHA's fiscal year end, and audited financial statements will then be required no later than 9 months after the PHA's fiscal year end, in accordance with the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. A PHA with a fiscal year ending September 30, 1999 that elects to submit its unaudited financial report earlier than the due date of November 30, 1999 must submit its report as required in this section. On or after September 30, 1998, but prior to November 30, 1999 (except for a PHA with its fiscal year ending September 30, 1999), PHAs may submit their financial reports in accordance with this section.

(2) For entities listed in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, the requirements of this section will begin with those entities with fiscal years ending December 31, 1998 and later. Entities listed in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section with fiscal years ending December 31, 1998 that elect to submit their reports earlier than the due date must submit their financial reports as required in this section. On or after September 30, 1998 but prior to January 1, 1999, these entities may submit their financial reports in accordance with this section.

(3) The requirements of this section apply to the entities listed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section with fiscal years ending on or after September 30, 2002. Audited financial statements submitted by lenders with fiscal years ending before September 30, 2002, may either be submitted in paper or electronically at the lenders' option. Audited financial statements submitted by lenders with fiscal years ending on or after September 30, 2002, must be submitted electronically.

(4) Entities described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section must comply with the requirements of this section with respect to fiscal years commencing on or after the date that is 60 calendar days after the date on which HUD announces, throughnotice, that it has issued guidance on the manner in which these reports will be transmitted to HUD.
