
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 242 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR HOSPITALS
###### Subpart B - Application Procedures and Commitments
####### ยง 242.16 Applications.
######## Preliminary Review.

(5)A Preliminary Review is a general overview of the acceptability of a potential mortgagor performed at the request of a hospital, a financial consultant representing a hospital, or a lender, to identify any factors that would likely cause an application to be rejected, should an application be submitted.

(i) The purpose of the preliminary review is for HUD to identify any obvious factors that would cause an application to be rejected, before the potential mortgagor or mortgagee expends resources to prepare one. The hospital, financial consultant, or lender shall submit a preliminary information package to HUD that provides evidence of statutory eligibility, market need, financial strength, and such other documentation as HUD may require. The scope of the preliminary review does not include approval of any specific site in the community.

(ii) If HUD identifies factors that would cause an application to be rejected, HUD shall issue a Preliminary Review Letter notifying the potential applicant that an application for mortgage insurance would probably not be successful and providing the reasons for this decision. Also, no further request from the proposed applicant for a Preliminary Review shall be entertained for a period of one year from the date of HUD's notification. HUD may grant an exception to this one-year limitation if, during the year, there is a major change in the circumstances that caused HUD to determine that the project would be rejected. For example, if the sole reason for HUD's determination was the hospital's failure to meet the historical operating margin test, and a new audited annual financial statement contains results that would cause the hospital to meet the test, then the lender may request a new Preliminary Review within one year of HUD's notification.

(iii) If HUD does not identify any factors that would cause an application to be rejected, HUD shall issue a Preliminary Review Letter advising the potential applicant that there appears to be no bar to the applicant's proceeding to the next step in the application process, provided that if a complete application is not received by HUD within one year following the date of HUD's letter, another Preliminary Review may be required, at HUD's discretion, before the application process may proceed.

(iv) The Commissioner's determination in the preliminary review phase that no factors have been identified that would cause an application to be rejected shall in no way be construed as an indication that a subsequent application will be approved.
