
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 242 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR HOSPITALS
###### Subpart B - Application Procedures and Commitments
####### ยง 242.16 Applications.
######## Application review.

(f)Upon receipt of a complete application, HUD shall evaluate the application to determine if eligibility, market need, financial feasibility, and compliance with applicable regulations (including but not limited to federal environmental regulations, wage rate regulations, and health care regulations) have been demonstrated, and to evaluate any other factors, including but not limited to risk to the Insurance Fund, that should be considered in determining if the application for mortgage insurance should be approved. As a part of this review, HUD may solicit the advice of private consultants and expert staff in the Department of Health and Human Services and other federal agencies. Based on review of the complete application, HUD may request additional information from the applicant. The timeliness of the applicant's submission of the additional information may affect the approval or disapproval of the application. The Commissioner's decision shall be communicated in the form of a Commitment Letter or a Rejection Letter. HUD will not issue a Commitment Letter until HUD completes the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79.
