
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 242 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR HOSPITALS
###### Subpart C - Mortgage Requirements
####### ยง 242.31 Accumulation of accruals.

(a) The mortgage shall provide for payments by the mortgagor to the mortgagee on each interest payment date of an amount sufficient to accumulate, in the hands of the mortgagee one payment period prior to its due date, the next annual MIP payable by the mortgagee to HUD. Such payments shall continue only so long as the contract of insurance shall remain in effect.

(b) The mortgage shall provide for such equal monthly payments by the mortgagor to the mortgagee as will amortize the ground rents, if any, and the estimated amount of all taxes, water charges, special assessments, and fire and other hazard insurance premiums, within a period ending one month prior to the dates on which the same become delinquent. The mortgage shall further provide that such payments shall be held by the mortgagee, for the purpose of paying such items before they become delinquent. The mortgage shall also make provision for adjustments in case such estimated amounts shall prove to be more, or less, than the actual amounts so paid therefore by the mortgagor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in particular circumstances, a mortgagor may purchase required fire and hazard insurance through a consortium of affiliated institutions or related organizations or, in the case of public institutions, through required state purchasing arrangements. In such circumstances, the mortgage accrual requirement may be modified to reflect circumstances in which it is inappropriate for the mortgagee to collect monthly payments and to make payments on behalf of the mortgagor.
