
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 242 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR HOSPITALS
###### Subpart E - Construction
####### ยง 242.47 Insured advances for building components stored off-site.
######## Advances.

(d)(1) Before an advance for a building component stored off-site is insured:

(i) The mortgagor shall:

(A) Obtain a bill of sale for the component;

(B) Give the mortgagee a security agreement; and

(C) File a financing statement in accordance with the Uniform Commercial Code; and

(ii) The mortgagee shall warrant to HUD that the security instruments are a first lien on the building components covered by the instruments except for such other liens or encumbrances as may be approved by HUD.

(2) Before each advance for building components stored off-site is insured, the mortgagor's architect shall certify to HUD that the components, in their intended use, comply with HUD-approved contract plans and specifications. Under those circumstances permitted by HUD in which there is no architect, compliance with the HUD-approved contract plans and specifications shall be determined by HUD.

(3) Advances may be made only for components stored off-site in a quantity required to permit uninterrupted installation at the site.

(4) At no time shall the invoice value of building components being stored off-site, for which advances have been HUD insured, represent more than 50 percent of the total estimated construction costs for the insured mortgaged project as specified in the construction contract. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and other regulatory requirements that set bonding requirements, the percentage of total estimated construction costs insured by advances under this section may exceed 25 percent but not 50 percent if the mortgagor furnishes assurance of completion in the form of a corporate surety bond for the payment and performance each in the amount of 100 percent of the amount of the construction contract. In no event will insurance of advances for components stored off-site be made in the absence of a payment and a performance bond.

(5) No single advance that is to be insured shall be in an amount less than $10,000.
