
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 242 - MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR HOSPITALS
###### Subpart H - Miscellaneous Requirements
####### ยง 242.76 Title evidence.

Upon insurance of the mortgage, the mortgagee shall furnish to HUD a survey of the mortgage property, satisfactory to HUD, and a policy of title insurance covering the property, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. If, for reasons HUD considers to be satisfactory, title insurance cannot be furnished, the mortgagee shall furnish such evidence of title in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section as HUD may require. Any survey, policy of title insurance, or evidence of title required under this section shall be furnished without expense to HUD. The types of title evidence are:

(a) A policy of title insurance issued by a company and in a form satisfactory to HUD. The policy shall name as the insureds the mortgagee and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and their successors and assigns, as their respective interests may appear. The policy shall provide that upon acquisition of title by the mortgagee or the Secretary, it will continue to provide the same coverage as the original policy, and will run to the mortgagee or the Secretary, as the case may be.

(b) An abstract of title satisfactory to HUD, prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title, accompanied by a legal opinion satisfactory to HUD as to the quality of such title, signed by an attorney-at-law experienced in the examination of titles.

(c) A Torrens or similar title certificate.
