
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 245 - TENANT PARTICIPATION IN MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS
###### Subpart D - Procedures for Requesting Approval of an Increase in Maximum Permissible Rents
####### § 245.330 Non-insured projects.

(a) In the case of a proposed rent increase for a project assisted under section 236 of the National Housing Act or section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, but which does not have a mortgage insured by HUD or held by the Secretary, the provisions of this section and of §§ 245.305 through 245.320 shall apply to the mortgagor (project owner), except that-

(1) The notice format prescribed in § 245.310 must be modified to reflect the procedural changes made by this section;

(2) The material (including tenant comments) required to be submitted to HUD under §§ 245.315 and 245.320 must be submitted to the State or local agency administering the section 236 assistance or rent supplement assistance contracts, rather than to HUD. An equivalent State or local agency form or standard accounting form may be substituted for the Statement of Profit and Loss, Form HUD-92410 required under § 245.315(a)(2), if approved by the local HUD office; and

(3) The State or local agency must certify that the mortgagor has complied with the requirements of §§ 245.310, 245.315, 245.320, and 245.325.

(b) After the State or local agency has considered the request for an increase in maximum permissible rents that meets the requirements of § 245.320 (including consideration of anticipated cost increases, as provided in § 245.325(a)), it must make a determination to approve, adjust upward or downward, or disapprove the request. If the agency determines to approve or adjust the request, it must submit to the appropriate local HUD office the mortgagor's requests for approval of an increase in maximum permissible rents, along with the comments of the tenants and the mortgagor's evaluation of the comments, and must certify to HUD that the mortgagor is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart. HUD shall review the agency's determination and certification and, within 30 days, of their submission to HUD, notify the agency of its approval, adjustment upward or downward, or disapproval of the proposed rent increase. HUD will not unreasonably withhold approval of a rent increase approved by the State or local agency.

(c) If the agency determines to disapprove the request, there is no HUD review of the agency's determination.

(d) The agency must notify the mortgagor of the final disposition of the request, and it must furnish the mortgagor with a written statement of the reasons for its approval, adjustment, or disapproval. The mortgagor must make the reasons for approval, adjustment or disapproval known to the tenants, by service of notice on them as provided in § 245.15.
