
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 245 - TENANT PARTICIPATION IN MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS
###### Subpart E - Procedures for Requesting Approval of a Covered Action
####### ยง 245.405 Applicability of subpart.

The requirements of this subpart apply to any request by a mortgagor, as provided by ยง 245.10, for HUD approval of one or more of the following covered actions:

(a) Conversion of a project from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities, or a reduction in tenant utility allowances.

(b) Conversion of residential units in a multifamily housing project to a nonresidential use or to condominiums, or the transfer of the project to a cooperative housing mortgagor corporation or association. Conversion of a project to a cooperative or of a portion of a project to nonresidential use does not constitute a change of use requiring mortgagee approval.

(c) A partial release of mortgage security. The requirements of this subpart, however, do not apply to any release of property from a mortgage lien with respect to a utility easement or a public taking of such property by condemnation or eminent domain.

(d) Making major capital additions to the project. For the purposes of this subpart, the term "major capital additions" includes only those capital improvements that represent a substantial addition to the project. Upgrading or replacing existing capital components of the project does not constitute a major capital addition to the project.
