
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 248.5 Election to proceed under subpart B or subpart C of this part.

(a) Any owner who has not submitted a notice of intent prior to January 1, 1991, pursuant to either § 248.211 or § 248.105, shall proceed under subpart B of this part.

(b) Any owner who has filed a plan of action with the Commissioner on or before October 11, 1990 pursuant to subpart C of this part, regardless of whether or not the Commissioner has approved such plan of action or whether the owner has received incentives thereunder, may proceed under subpart B of this part by submitting a notice of intent to the Commissioner in accordance with § 248.105 within 30 days after publication of revised Appraisal Guidelines or within thirty days after the Commissioner notifies the owner of HUD's final approval of the plan of action, whichever is later. The notice of intent shall state that the owner is exercising its conversion right pursuant to this section. If the owner fails to file a notice of intent within that period, the owner forfeits its right of conversion. In awarding incentives to an owner who elects to proceed under subpart B of this part in accordance with this section, the Commissioner shall take into consideration any incentives which the owner has already received under subpart C of this part.

(c) Any owner of housing that becomes eligible low income housing, as defined in subpart B of this part, before January 1, 1991, and who before such date, filed a notice of intent under § 248.211 of subpart C of this part, may, unless a plan of action was submitted after October 11, 1990, elect to proceed under subpart B or under subpart C of this part. An owner must indicate its election by submitting to the Commissioner, within 30 days of the effective date of this part, a notice of election to proceed indicating whether it wishes to proceed under subpart B or subpart C of this part, or proceed under subpart B of this part until completion of the appraisals and then elect either subpart B or subpart C of this part. An owner who chooses to retain its option until after the completion of the appraisals under § 248.111 must submit a new notice of intent to the Commissioner within 30 days after receipt of the information provided by the Commissioner under § 248.131. The notice of intent shall be submitted in accordance with either § 248.105 (for owners electing to proceed under subpart B of this part) or § 248.211 (for owners electing to proceed under subpart C of this part). Any owner who fails to file a notice of intent within the 30-day period may not proceed under subpart C of this part, but may proceed under subpart B of this part by filing a new notice of intent thereafter. If an owner who has filed a notice of intent before January 1, 1991 elects under this paragraph to proceed under subpart C of this part, it may change its election within 30 days after receipt of the information provided by the Commissioner under § 248.131 by filing a new notice of intent under § 248.211. For purposes of calculating any time periods or deadlines under this part for actions following the filing of the notice of intent, the date on which the owner submits the new notice of intent under this paragraph shall be deemed the date of the filing of the notice of intent. Any owner who, exercising its option under paragraph (c) of this section, submits a notice of intent under § 248.211 after the Commissioner has incurred the cost of having an appraisal, or appraisals, performed pursuant to § 248.111 of subpart A of this part, shall reimburse the Commissioner for these expenses within 30 days of receipt of a bill covering these expenses.

(d) For an owner who has elected under paragraph (c) of this section to proceed under subpart C of this part, the Commissioner shall provide sufficient assistance to enable a nonprofit organization that has purchased, or will purchase, eligible low income housing to meet project oversight costs, as that term is defined in § 248.201.

(e) The Commissioner shall not refuse to offer incentives under § 248.231 to any owner who filed a notice of intent under § 248.211 before October 15, 1991, based solely on the date of filing of the plan action.

(f) An owner who has filed a plan of action after October 11, 1990, pursuant to § 248.213, may not elect to proceed under subpart B of this part.
