
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart B - Prepayments and Plans of Action Under the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990
####### ยง 248.105 Notice of intent.
######## Filing with the State or local government and tenants.

(c)The owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with the chief executive officer of the appropriate State or local government in which the project is located, or any officer designated by executive order or State or local law to receive such information, and with the mortgagee. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the notice of intent to each occupied unit in the project and to any tenant representative, if any, known to the owner, and shall post a copy of the notice of intent in readily accessible locations within each affected building of the project. The copies of the notice of intent delivered to the tenants and the tenant representative shall include a summary of possible outcomes of the filing which shall be furnished by the Commissioner. Upon the request of any non-English speaking tenants residing in the affected project, the owner shall tabulate the number and type of translations needed by the tenants and request the local HUD field office to provide the appropriate translations. The owner shall deliver a copy of the translated notice of intent to all of the tenants who requested such translation. The failure of an owner to comply with any non-federal notice requirements shall not invalidate the notice of intent.
