
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart B - Prepayments and Plans of Action Under the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990
####### ยง 248.145 Criteria for approval of a plan of action involving incentives.
######## Determination of remaining useful life.

(d)The Commissioner shall make determinations, on the record and after opportunity for a hearing, as to when the useful life of an eligible low income housing project has expired. Under procedures and standards to be established by the Commissioner, owners of eligible low income housing may petition the Commissioner for a determination that the useful life of such project has expired. Such petition may not be filed before the expiration of the 50-year period beginning upon the approval of a plan of action under subpart B of this part with respect to such project. In making a determination pursuant to a petition under paragraph (d) of this section, the Commissioner shall presume that the useful life of the project has not expired, and the owner shall have the burden of proof in establishing such expiration. The Commissioner may not determine that the useful life of any project has expired if such determination results primarily from failure to make regular and reasonable repairs and replacement, as became necessary. In making a determination regarding the useful life of any project pursuant to a petition submitted under paragraph (d) of this section, the Commissioner shall provide for comment by tenants of the project and interested persons and organizations with respect to the petition. The Commissioner shall also provide the tenants and interested persons and organizations with an opportunity to appeal a determination under paragraph (d) of this section.

(e) In the case of any plans of action involving incentives the owner must agree to comply with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 652); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); section 504 of the Rehabilitiation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) (including the Department's Accessibility Guidelines (24 CFR chapter I, subchapter A, appendix II) and all regulations issued pursuant to these authorities.
