
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart B - Prepayments and Plans of Action Under the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990
####### ยง 248.173 Resident homeownership program.
######## Promissory note required.

(3)At closing, the initial homeowner shall execute a nonrecourse promissory note for a term of twenty years, in a form acceptable to HUD, equal to the difference between the fair market value of the unit and the purchase price, payable to the Commissioner, together with a mortgage securing the obligation of the note.

(i) With respect to a sale by an initial homeowner, the note shall require payment upon sale by the initial homeowner, to the extent proceeds of the sale remain after paying off other outstanding debt incurred in connection with the purchase of the property, paying any other amounts due in connection with the sale, including closing costs and transfer taxes, and paying the family the amount of its equity in the property, computed in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.

(ii) With respect to a sale by an initial homeowner during the first six years after acquisition, the family may retain only the amount computed under paragraph (k) of this section. Any excess is distributed as provided in paragraph (1) of this section.

(iii) With respect to a sale by an initial homeowner six to twenty years after acquisition, the amount payable under the note shall be reduced by 1/168th of the original principal amount of the note for each full month of ownership by the family after the end of the sixth year. The homeowner may retain all other proceeds of the sale.
