
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart B - Prepayments and Plans of Action Under the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990
####### ยง 248.173 Resident homeownership program.
######## Execution of promissory note by subsequent purchaser.

(j)Where a subsequent purchaser during the 20-year period, measured by the term of the initial promissory note, purchases the property for less than the then current fair market value, the purchaser shall also execute at closing such a promissory note and mortgage, for the amount of the discount. The term of the promissory note shall be the period remaining of the original 20-year period. The note shall require payment upon sale by the subsequent homeowner, to the extent proceeds of the sale remain after paying off other outstanding debt incurred in connection with the purchase of the property, and paying any other amounts due in connection with the sale (such as closing costs and transfer taxes). The amount payable on the note shall be reduced by a percentage of the original principal amount of the note for each full month of ownership by the subsequent homeowner. The percentage shall be computed by determining the percentage of the term of the promissory note that the homeowner has owned the property. The remainder may be retained by the subsequent homeowner selling the property.
