
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart C - Prepayment and Plans of Action Under the Emergency Low Income Preservation Act of 1987
####### ยง 248.213 Plan of action.
######## Preparation and submission.

(a)The owner shall submit the plan of action to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The owner may submit the plan of action simultaneously to any appropriate State or local government agency, which shall, in reviewing the plan, consult with representatives of the tenants of the housing. An owner shall submit the plan of action to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The owner shall notify the tenants of the plan of action by posting in each occupied building a summary of the plan of action and by delivery of a copy of the plan of action to the tenant representative, if any. In addition, the summary must indicate that a copy of the plan of action shall be available from the tenant representatives, whose names, addresses and telephone numbers are indicated on the summary, the local HUD field office, and the on-site office for the project, or if one is not available, in the location where rents are collected, for inspection and copying, at a reasonable cost, during normal business hours. Simultaneously with the submission to the Commissioner, the owner shall submit the plan of action to that officer of State or local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent under ยง 248.211(b). The summary of the plan of action posted by the owner and the copies of the plan of action submitted to the tenant representative and the officer of State or local government shall all state that, upon request, the tenants and the State or local government, may obtain from the owner or from the local HUD field office a copy of all documentation supporting the plan of action except for that documentation deemed "proprietary information" under ยง 248.101.
