
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 248 - PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES
###### Subpart D - State Preservation Project Assistance
####### ยง 248.311 Notice of intent.
######## Filing with HUD, mortgagee and tenants.

(c)The owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with the local HUD field office having jurisdiction over the area in which the project is located and with the mortgagee, if any. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the notice of intent to each tenant in the project and to any tenant representative, if any, known to the owner, and shall post a copy of the notice of intent in readily accessible locations within each affected building of the project. The copies of the notice of intent delivered to the tenants and the tenant representative shall include a summary of possible outcomes of the filing which shall be furnished by the State agency. Upon the request of any non-English speaking tenants residing in the affected project, the owner shall tabulate the number and type of translations needed by the tenants and request the State agency to provide the appropriate translations. The owner shall deliver a copy of the translated notice of intent to all of the tenants who requested such a translation. The failure of an owner to comply with any non-federal notice requirements shall not invalidate the notice of intent.
