
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 255 - COINSURANCE FOR THE PURCHASE OR REFINANCING OF EXISTING MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS
###### ยง 255.1 Termination of program.

(a) Effective on November 12, 1990, the authority to coinsure mortgages under this part is terminated, except that the Department:

(1) Will honor legally binding and validly issued commitments issued before November 12, 1990 and

(2) Will accept for review the coinsurance applications described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) A precommitment review procedure applies to any application for mortgage coinsurance for which a lender has accepted a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990 under this part and for which a legally binding Conditional or Firm Commitment is proposed to be issued. This procedure applies to lenders with preliminary as well as full approval to process coinsurance applications and without regard to whether the lender is under probation. For any coinsurance application for which the lender has accepted an application and a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990, the lender shall, prior to commitment, submit to HUD headquarters and to the HUD field office with jurisdiction for the proposed project such exhibits and other information as has been specified in administrative instructions of the Commissioner. The lender shall not issue a commitment without written approval from the Commissioner. Field Offices shall not endorse any case covered by this precommitment review requirement unless the lender submits with the endorsement package evidence of the Commissioner's approval of the processing and evidence of compliance with any conditions imposed by the Commissioner.

(c) Extensions of commitments for projects which had outstanding legally binding commitments as of November 12, 1990 are limited as follows:

(1) Conditional commitments may be extended not to exceed 180 days from the date of original issuance;

(2) Firm commitments may be granted two 60-day extensions.

(d) Reopened expired commitments are subject to precommitment review under paragraph (b) of this section.
