
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart B - Housing Finance Agency Requirements
####### ยง 266.100 Qualified housing finance agency (HFA).
######## Approval levels.

(b)Approval levels consist of the following:

(1) Level I approval to originate, service, and dispose of multifamily mortgages where the HFA uses its own underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures, and assumes 50 to 90 percent of the risk of loss (in 10 percent increments).

(2) Level II approval to originate, service, and dispose of multifamily mortgages where the HFA uses underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures approved by HUD, and:

(i) When the loan-to-replacement cost ratio for new construction and substantial rehabilitation projects or the loan-to-value ratio for existing projects is greater than or equal to 75 percent, the HFA shall assume 25 percent of the risk of loss.

(ii) When the loan-to-replacement cost ratio for new construction and substantial rehabilitation or the loan-to-value ratio for existing projects is less than 75 percent, the HFA shall assume 10 percent, or 25 percent at the HFA's option, of the risk of loss.

(3) For HFAs who plan to use Level I and Level II processing, the underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures to be used on Level II loans must be approved by HUD.

(4) Every five years, HUD will review the underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures for HFAs with Level II approval. HUD may require changes to these procedures as a condition for continued Level II approval.
