
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart E - Mortgage and Closing Requirements; HUD Endorsement
####### ยง 266.410 Mortgage provisions.
######## Hazard insurance.

(g)The mortgage must contain a covenant, acceptable to the HFA, that binds the mortgagor to keep the property insured by one or more standard policies for fire and other hazards stipulated by the HFA. A standard mortgagee clause making loss payable to the HFA must be included in the mortgage. The HFA is responsible for assuring that insurance is maintained in force and in the amount required by this paragraph and the mortgage. The HFA must ensure that the insurance coverage is in an amount that will comply with the coinsurance clause applicable to the location and character of the property, but not less than 80 percent of the actual cash value of the insurable improvements and equipment. If the mortgagor does not obtain the required insurance, the HFA must do so and assess the mortgagor for such costs. These insurance requirements apply as long as the HFA retains an interest in the project and final claim settlement has not been completed or the contract of insurance has not been otherwise terminated.
