
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart E - Mortgage and Closing Requirements; HUD Endorsement
####### § 266.420 Closing and endorsement by the Commissioner.
######## Closing docket.

(b)The HFA's submission must include a certification that it has obtained written HUD approval of compliance with the requirements referred to in § 266.210, and certifications and information as follows:

(1) Information concerning the mortgage amount and term, location, number and type of units, income and expenses, rents, projects and market occupancy percentages, value/replacement cost, interest rate, and similar statistical information in accordance with the Commissioner's administrative procedures.

(2) Copies of the amortization schedule, Note and Risk-Sharing Agreement.

(3) Certification that the loan has been processed, prudently underwritten (including a determination that a market exists for the project), cost certified (if the project is being submitted for final endorsement) and closed in full compliance with the HFA's standards and requirements (or where the mortgage is insured under Level II, in full compliance with the underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures, as approved by HUD).

(4) At the time of final endorsement, for periodic advances cases, a certification that the advances were made in accordance with the mortgage pursuant to § 266.310.

(5) A copy of the HFA-approved cost certification if the project is submitted for final endorsement.

(6) A certification that equal employment requirements are followed.

(7) A certification that the HFA has reviewed and approved the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, required by § 266.215(a), and found it acceptable.

(8) A certification that a dedicated account, if required, has been increased in accordance with § 266.110(b).

(9) Certifications required under § 266.415 concerning liens and contractual obligations.

(10) Copies of the Hazard Insurance Policy with a clause making the loss payable to the HFA.

(11) For projects subject to Davis-Bacon prevailing requirements under § 266.225, the certification and information concerning payment of prevailing wage rates required by § 266.225(d).

(12) Certified copies of mortgage (deed of trust) with attached regulatory agreement, and note for HUD files.

(13) Certification that housing claiming the housing for older persons exemption is eligible for and complies with 42 U.S.C. 3607(b) and 24 CFR part 100, subpart E.
