
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart F - Project Management and Servicing
####### ยง 266.505 Regulatory agreement requirements.
######## General.

(a)(1) The HFA must execute a Regulatory Agreement, in recordable form, between the mortgagor and the HFA to be in force for the duration of the insured mortgage and note or bond. The Regulatory Agreement must include a description of the property. The Regulatory Agreement must be incorporated by reference into the mortgage and recorded with the mortgage.

(2) The Regulatory Agreement executed between the HFA and the mortgagor must be binding upon the mortgagor and any of its successors and assigns and upon the HFA and any of its successors for so long as the mortgage is insured by HUD or HUD holds an HFA debenture issued in connection with a claim arising from the insured mortgage. The HFA may not assign the Regulatory Agreement.

(3) The HFA will enforce the Regulatory Agreement and take actions against any mortgagors who violate its provisions. Such actions may involve a declaration of default and application to any court for specific performance of the agreement.
