
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart F - Project Management and Servicing
####### ยง 266.505 Regulatory agreement requirements.
######## Requirements.

(b)The Regulatory Agreement must require the mortgagor to comply with the provisions of this part and obligate the mortgagor, among other things, to:

(1) Make all payments due under the mortgage and note/bond.

(2) Where necessary, establish a sinking fund for future capital needs.

(3) Maintain the project as affordable housing, as defined in ยง 266.5.

(4) Continue to use dwelling units for their original purposes.

(5) Comply with such other requirements as may be established by the HFA and set forth in the Regulatory Agreement.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Maintain complete books and records established solely for the project.

(8) Comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, required by ยง 266.215(a), and all other fair housing and equal opportunity requirements.

(9) Operate as a single asset mortgagor.

(10) Make books and records available for HUD or U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) review with appropriate notification.

(11) Permit HUD officials or employees to inspect the project upon request by the Commissioner.
