
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart G - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Claim Procedures
######## ยง 266.638 Issuance of HFA Debenture.
######### Term of HFA Debenture.

(b)The HFA Debenture shall be dated the same date that the initial claim payment is issued. The HFA Debenture shall have a term of 5 years in order to afford the mortgagor ample time to cure the default or the HFA time to foreclose and/or resell the project. HUD may provide a written extension of the 5-year term if the HFA certifies and provides documentation that the project owner has filed bankruptcy and the HFA is taking action to have the project discharged from the bankruptcy. The HFA Debenture shall, during this extended period, continue to bear interest as described below at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment. Interest is due on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture or through the date an application for final claim payment is received by the Commissioner.
