
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter B - Mortgage and Loan Insurance Programs Under National Housing Act and Other Authorities
##### PART 266 - HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS
###### Subpart G - Contract Rights and Obligations
####### Claim Procedures
######## ยง 266.654 Final claim settlement and HFA Debenture redemption.
######### HFA reimbursement payment.

(b)If the initial claim amount, as determined under ยง 266.628(a)(1), is more than HUD's share of the loss, the HFA shall, within 30 calendar days of notification by HUD of the amount due, remit to HUD an amount that is equal to the difference between the initial claim amount and HUD's share of the loss. The funds must be remitted in a manner prescribed in the Commissioner's administrative procedures. The HFA Debenture will be considered redeemed upon receipt of the cash payment. A 5 percent penalty will be charged and interest at the debenture rate will begin to accrue if the cash payment is not received within the prescribed period. If an HFA is in default under an existing debenture and files a claim on another project under this part, HUD will charge the HFA's Dedicated Account for the amount owed the Department. In cases of top-tier or A-rated HFA's which are not required to maintain a Dedicated Account, HUD will inform the rating agencies of the HFA's failure to pay on their debt obligation and of its violation of the Risk-Sharing Agreement.
