
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart B - Disposition by Sale
####### ยง 291.100 General policy on HUD acquisition, ownership, and disposition of real estate assets.
######## Insured with rehabilitation loan

(iii)in accordance with section 203(k) of the National Housing Act and pursuant to ยง 203.50 of this chapter.

(2) REO properties that have been identified as uninsurable in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section can be purchased and financed with a mortgage insured under section 203(k) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(k)), subject to underwriting requirements supported by an FHA-specified appraisal and in accordance with 24 CFR 203.50.

(3) HUD, in its sole discretion and subject to appropriations, may take back Purchase Money Mortgages (PMMs) on property purchased by governmental entities or private nonprofit organizations who buy property for ultimate resale to owner-occupant purchasers with incomes at or below 115 percent of the area median income. When offered by HUD, a PMM will be available in an amount determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, at market rate interest, for a period not to exceed 5 years. Mortgagors must meet FHA mortgage credit standards.

(i) For purposes of this section, the term "purchase money mortgage," or PMM means a note secured by a mortgage or trust deed given by a buyer, as mortgagor, to the seller, as mortgagee, as part of the purchase price of the real estate.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the purchaser is entirely responsible for obtaining financing for purchasing a property.
