
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart C - Sales Procedures
####### ยง 291.205 Competitive sales of individual properties.
######## Bid period.

(d)(1) HUD will establish a bid period for properties available for sale. Generally, the bid period will be 10 days, but may be lengthened or shortened by HUD. After properties are initially advertised, bids may be submitted by all potential purchasers. However, in the case of properties offered with insured mortgages, HUD may give priority to owner-occupant purchasers for a period of up to 30-days, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) HUD may treat all bids received during a specified period of time during the bid period to have been received simultaneously. HUD may also choose to review bids on a daily basis, with all bids submitted during each day considered to have been received simultaneously. HUD may use either (or both) of these methods during the bid period, as described in the bid materials accompanying a particular sale.

(3) Offers received on a property before the bid period begins will be returned. Offers received after the bid period will not be considered at the bid opening, but will be considered during the extended listing period if no acceptable bid was received during the bid period (see paragraph (f) of this section).
