
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart C - Sales Procedures
####### ยง 291.205 Competitive sales of individual properties.
######## Earnest money deposits.

(h)(1) The amount of earnest money deposit required for a property with a sales price of $50,000 or less is $500, except that for vacant lots the amount is 50 percent of the list price. For a property with a sales price greater than $50,000, the amount of earnest money deposit required in the area is set by the local HUD office, in an amount not less than $500 or more than $2,000. Information on the amount of the required earnest money deposit is available from the local HUD office or participating real estate brokers.

(2) All bids must be accompanied by earnest money deposits in the form of a cash equivalent as prescribed by the Secretary, or a certification from the real estate broker that the earnest money has been deposited in the broker's escrow account. If a bid is accepted by HUD, the earnest money deposit will be credited to the purchaser at closing; if the bid is rejected, the earnest money deposit will be returned. Earnest money deposits are subject to total or partial forfeiture for failure to close a sale.
