
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart C - Sales Procedures
####### ยง 291.210 Direct sales procedures.
######## Direct sales of properties without insured mortgages to governmental entities and private nonprofit organizations.

(a)(1) State and local governments, public agencies, and qualified private nonprofit organizations that have been preapproved to participate by HUD, according to standards determined by the Secretary, may purchase properties directly from HUD at a discount off the list price determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, but not less than 10 percent, for use in HUD and local housing or homeless programs.

(2)(i) Purchasers under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must designate geographical areas of interest by ZIP code. Upon request, before those properties without insured mortgages are publicly listed, HUD will assure that governmental entities and nonprofit organizations are notified in writing when eligible properties become available in the areas designated by them. HUD will coordinate the dissemination of the information to ensure that if more than one purchaser designates a specific area, those purchasers receive the list of properties at the same time, based on intervals agreed upon between HUD and the purchasers. A property in this section will be sold to the first eligible purchaser submitting an acceptable contract. All bids received on the same business day will be considered to have been received simultaneously. In the case of identical bids submitted on the same business day, award will be determined by drawing lots.

(ii) Purchasers under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must notify HUD of preliminary interest in specific properties within 5 days of the notification of available properties (if notification is by mail, the 5 days will begin to run 5 days after mailing). HUD will provide a consideration and inspection period for these purchasers. The consideration and inspection period will usually be for ten days from the date of notification of interest, but may be lengthened or shortened by HUD, as appropriate. Those properties in which purchasers express an interest will be held off the market for the duration of the consideration and inspection period. Other properties on the list will continue to be processed for public sale. HUD may limit the number of properties held off the market for a purchaser at any one time, based upon the purchaser's financial capacity as determined by HUD and upon past performance in HUD programs. At the end of the consideration and inspection period, properties in which no governmental entity or nonprofit organization has expressed a specific intent to purchase will be offered for sale under the competitive bid process. Properties in which a governmental entity or nonprofit organization expressed an intent to purchase, during the consideration and inspection period, will continue to be held off the market pending receipt of the sales contract. If a sales contract is not received within a time period of up to 10 days, as determined by HUD, following expiration of the consideration and inspection period, and no other governmental entity or nonprofit organization has expressed an interest, then the property will be offered for sale under the competitive bid process.

(3) In order to ensure that properties purchased at a discount are being utilized for expanding affordable housing opportunities, HUD may require, as appropriate, periodic, limited information regarding the purchase and resale of such properties, and certain restrictions on the resale of such properties.
