
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - Sale of HUD-Held Single Family Mortgage Loans
####### ยง 291.307 Servicing requirements.
######## Assigned mortgage loans after the initial 36-month forbearance period.

(2)This paragraph (c)(2) explains how a purchaser (or a servicer of a purchased mortgage loan) must service a mortgage loan that was assigned to HUD under section 230(b) of the National Housing Act (as that subsection existed prior to January 26, 1996), for which more than 36 months has expired since the mortgage loan assignment was accepted by the Secretary.

(i) Such purchaser may require the mortgagor to pay at least the full monthly payment due under the mortgage loan. A purchaser may also require a mortgagor to pay increased monthly mortgage loan payments under a renewed payment plan agreement to reduce the amount in arrears if the mortgagor's available income (as calculated according to the Loan Sale Agreement) can support the increased payments. A purchaser must renew payment plan agreements at least through and including the expiration of the original term of the mortgage loan, so long as the mortgagor complies with the prior payment plan agreement.

(ii) If the mortgagor defaults under a payment plan agreement established by the purchaser, the mortgagor shall have the right to reinstate the most recent payment plan agreement if the mortgagor makes a lump sum payment in an amount necessary to cure the default. If the mortgagor defaults under the most recent payment plan agreement and does not reinstate, the purchaser may terminate the payment plan agreement and take such action as may be permitted under the terms of the mortgage.

(iii) The purchaser's right to demand payment of a reinstatement amount from the mortgagor may be limited by the terms of the Loan Sale Agreement.
