
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart E - Lease and Sale of HUD-Acquired Single Family Properties for the Homeless
####### ยง 291.415 Lease with option to purchase properties for use by the homeless.
######## Term of lease.

(b)(1) A lease of an eligible property may be negotiated for such time as the lessee requires, not to exceed one year. Leases are renewable, at the option of the lessee and with the approval of HUD, at the end of the first lease term for up to four additional one-year terms, on a year-to-year basis, provided the lessee has met the requirements under this program.

(2) Approvals for lease renewals will be denied if HUD determines that the lessee has not complied with the requirements of this part of the lease.

(3) A property will not be leased to a lessee for a period longer than five years. At the end of the five-year period, if the lessee has not exercised the option to purchase, HUD will notify the lessee to vacate the property and, if necessary, will take appropriate action under the eviction laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. All property returned to HUD must be vacant, and will be placed on the market for sale to the general public.

(4) Within 30 days of leasing a property from HUD or within 30 days after a property is vacated, a lessee must sublease the property to the homeless, unless a longer period is approved by HUD.
