
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter II - Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing - Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter I - HUD-Owned Properties
##### PART 291 - DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY
###### Subpart E - Lease and Sale of HUD-Acquired Single Family Properties for the Homeless
####### ยง 291.415 Lease with option to purchase properties for use by the homeless.
######## Purchase of leased properties.

(e)(1) Lessees that desire to purchase leased properties during the lease term will be offered the properties at the lower of the fair market value established at the time of the initiation of the lease or at the time of the sale, less a discount determined appropriate by the Secretary but not less than 10 percent, provided lessees agree to use the properties either to house low-income tenants for a period of not less than 10 years or to resell the properties to low-income buyers. If the lessee does not agree to such conditions, the lessee must purchase the properties at the higher of the fair market value at the time of the initiation of the lease or at the time of the sale, less 10 percent. Any repairs to or rehabilitation of a property done by a lessee during the lease term will not be reflected in the purchase price.

(2) Sales of leased properties will be on as-is, all-cash basis. HUD will not pay a fee for a selling broker. HUD will pay the closing agent's fee. The purchaser must pay all other closing costs.
