
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 6 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES RECEIVING ASSISTANCE UNDER TITLE I OF THE HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Enforcement
##### ยง 6.11 Conduct of investigations.
###### Right to a review of the letter of findings.

(c)(1) Within 30 days of receipt of the letter of findings, any party may request that a review be made of the letter of findings, by mailing or delivering to the Responsible Official, Room 5100, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD, Washington, DC 20410, a written statement of the reasons why the letter of findings should be modified.

(2) The Responsible Official will send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the request for review to all parties. Parties other than the party requesting review and HUD shall have 20 days from receipt to respond to the request for review.

(3) The Responsible Official will either sustain or modify the letter of findings or require that further investigation be conducted, within 60 days of the request for review. The Responsible Official's decision shall constitute the formal determination of compliance or noncompliance.

(4) If no party requests that the letter of findings be reviewed, the Responsible Official, within 14 calendar days of the expiration of the time period in paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section, will send a formal written determination of compliance or noncompliance to all parties.
