
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IV - Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 401 - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE AND HOUSING ASSISTANCE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM (MARK-TO-MARKET)
##### Subpart B - Participating Administrative Entity (PAE) and Portfolio Restructuring Agreement (PRA)
###### ยง 401.310 Conflicts of interest.
####### Conflicts of interest arising prior to PAE selection,Request for review of conflicts of interest.

(d)-(1)(i) A potential PAE, with its request to HUD for consideration for selection as a PAE, must identify existing conflicts of interest and may make a written request for a determination as to the existence of a conflict of interest, may request that the conflict of interest, if any, be waived, or may propose how it could eliminate the conflict.

(ii) If, after submitting a request but prior to selection, a potential PAE discovers that it has a conflict, it must notify HUD in writing within 10 days of submitting the request or prior to selection, whichever is earlier. Such notification must contain a detailed description of the conflict. The potential PAE may, with its notification, request that the conflict be waived or may propose how it may eliminate the conflict. The potential PAE may also request a determination as to the existence of the conflict. The potential PAE may also request a determination as to the existence of the conflict.
