
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IV - Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 401 - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE AND HOUSING ASSISTANCE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM (MARK-TO-MARKET)
##### Subpart B - Participating Administrative Entity (PAE) and Portfolio Restructuring Agreement (PRA)
###### ยง 401.310 Conflicts of interest.
####### Conflicts of interest that arise or are discovered after PAE selection.

(e)(1) A PAE must notify HUD in writing within 10 days after discovering that it or another restricted person has a conflict of interest. Such notification must contain a detailed description of the conflict of interest and state how the PAE intends to eliminate the conflict. The PAE may also request a determination as to the existence of a conflict.

(2) HUD will, after receipt of such notification or other discovery of the PAE's conflict or potential conflict of interest, take such action as it determines is in its best interests, which may involve proceeding under ยง 401.313 or as provided in the following sentences. HUD may notify the PAE in writing of its findings as to whether a conflict of interest exists and the basis for such determination, whether or not a waiver will be granted, or whether corrective actions may be taken in order to eliminate the conflict of interest. Corrective action must be completed by the PAE not later than 30 days after notification is mailed by HUD unless HUD, at its sole discretion, determines that it is in its best interests to grant the PAE an extension in which to complete the corrective action.
