
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IV - Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 401 - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE AND HOUSING ASSISTANCE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM (MARK-TO-MARKET)
##### Subpart C - Restructuring Plan
###### ยง 401.480 Sale or transfer of project.
####### Owner's notice of intent to sell or transfer.

(c)(1) The owner must provide notice to the PAE affirming the owner's intent to sell or transfer the property. This notice must be received by the PAE no later than 30 days after a notice of rejection under ยง 401.101 or ยง 401.403 has become a final determination under subpart F of this part.

(2) The owner must cooperate in selling or transferring the property. Failure to do so will result in the PAE's determination to reject the owner's request for a Restructuring Plan. The owner must distribute and publish, in an appropriate publication, a notice to potential purchasers that describes the property, proposed terms of sale, and procedures for submitting a purchase offer. The notice in form and substance must be acceptable to HUD, and must inform potential offerors of a preference for priority purchasers.

(3) During a period to be determined by HUD that begins when the owner gives notice of intent to sell or transfer, an owner may accept an offer only from a priority purchaser.

(4) No sale or transfer to a non-priority purchaser will be approved without evidence of tenant support.
