
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter IV - Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### PART 401 - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE AND HOUSING ASSISTANCE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM (MARK-TO-MARKET)
##### Subpart C - Restructuring Plan
###### ยง 401.480 Sale or transfer of project.
####### Tenant endorsement.

(4)(i) A purchaser may demonstrate that it is tenant endorsed by submitting documentation to HUD that a majority (51 percent) of the tenant heads of household have given their endorsement in writing. Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, ballots, letters of support, or petitions. The endorsement of tenants who did not attend, or vote at, the informational meeting, or any subsequent meeting, may be sought directly from each of these tenants subsequent to the meeting.

(ii)(A) If the purchaser has made a reasonable effort to obtain the endorsement of a majority (51 percent) of the tenants and the necessary percentage of votes was not obtained, the purchaser may seek HUD approval to obtain endorsement based on a lower percentage of endorsing tenants.

(B) The purchaser must deliver notice to each tenant household that the purchaser is seeking HUD approval of a tenant endorsement based on less than 51 percent of tenant approval and provide tenants with at least 10 days from the date of the notice to submit comments to the purchaser on the approval of endorsement.

(C) The purchaser and/or seller must submit, in writing, to HUD an account of the efforts taken to secure tenant endorsement, the number and percentage of tenants voting for and against endorsement, and any comments received from tenants regarding the approval of endorsement.

(D) HUD will determine whether or not to approve endorsement on the basis of all the information available to HUD and will promptly notify the purchaser of HUD's determination.
