
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### § 570.3 Definitions.
######## Income.

For the purpose of determining whether a family or household is low- and moderate-income under subpart C of this part, grantees may select any of the three definitions listed below for each activity, except that integrally related activities of the same type and qualifying under the same paragraph of § 570.208(a) shall use the same definition of income. The option to choose a definition does not apply to activities that qualify under § 570.208(a)(1) (Area benefit activities), except when the recipient carries out a survey under § 570.208(a)(1)(vi). Activities qualifying under § 570.208(a)(1) generally must use the area income data supplied to recipients by HUD. The three definitions are as follows:

(1)(i) "Annual income" as defined under the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments program at 24 CFR 813.106 (except that if the CDBG assistance being provided is homeowner rehabilitation under § 570.202, the value of the homeowner's primary residence may be excluded from any calculation of Net Family Assets); or

(ii) Annual income as reported under the Census long-form for the most recent available decennial Census. This definition includes:

(A) Wages, salaries, tips, commissions, etc.;

(B) Self-employment income from own nonfarm business, including proprietorships and partnerships;

(C) Farm self-employment income;

(D) Interest, dividends, net rental income, or income from estates or trusts;

(E) Social Security or railroad retirement;

(F) Supplemental Security Income, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, or other public assistance or public welfare programs;

(G) Retirement, survivor, or disability pensions; and

(H) Any other sources of income received regularly, including Veterans' (VA) payments, unemployment compensation, and alimony; or

(iii) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 for individual Federal annual income tax purposes.

(2) Estimate the annual income of a family or household by projecting the prevailing rate of income of each person at the time assistance is provided for the individual, family, or household (as applicable). Estimated annual income shall include income from all family or household members, as applicable. Income or asset enhancement derived from the CDBG-assisted activity shall not be considered in calculating estimated annual income.
