
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart D - Entitlement Grants
####### ยง 570.301 Activity locations and float-funding.
######## Float-funded activities and guarantees.

(b)A recipient may use undisbursed funds in the line of credit and its CDBG program account that are budgeted in statements or action plans for one or more other activities that do not need the funds immediately, subject to the limitations described below. Such funds shall be referred to as the "float" for purposes of this section and the action plan. Each activity carried out using the float must meet all of the same requirements that apply to CDBG-assisted activities generally, and must be expected to produce program income in an amount at least equal to the amount of the float so used. Whenever the recipient proposes to fund an activity with the float, it must include the activity in its action plan or amend the action plan for the current program year. For purposes of this section, an activity that uses such funds will be called a "float-funded activity."

(1) Each float-funded activity must be individually listed and described as such in the action plan.

(2)(i) The expected time period between obligation of assistance for a float-funded activity and receipt of program income in an amount at least equal to the full amount drawn from the float to fund the activity may not exceed 2.5 years. An activity from which program income sufficient to recover the full amount of the float assistance is expected to be generated more than 2.5 years after obligation may not be funded from the float, but may be included in an action plan if it is funded from CDBG funds other than the float (e.g., grant funds or proceeds from an approved Section 108 loan guarantee).

(ii) Any extension of the repayment period for a float-funded activity shall be considered to be a new float-funded activity for these purposes and may be implemented by the grantee only if the extension is made subject to the same limitations and requirements as apply to a new float-funded activity.

(3) Unlike other projected program income, the full amount of income expected to be generated by a float-funded activity must be shown as a source of program income in the action plan containing the activity, whether or not some or all of the income is expected to be received in a future program year (in accordance with 24 CFR 91.220(g)(1)(ii)(D)).

(4) The recipient must also clearly declare in the action plan that identifies the float-funded activity the recipient's commitment to undertake one of the following options:

(i) Amend or delete activities in an amount equal to any default or failure to produce sufficient income in a timely manner. If the recipient makes this choice, it must include a description of the process it will use to select the activities to be amended or deleted and how it will involve citizens in that process; and it must amend the applicable statement(s) or action plan(s) showing those amendments or deletions promptly upon determining that the float-funded activity will not generate sufficient or timely program income;

(ii) Obtain an irrevocable line of credit from a commercial lender for the full amount of the float-funded activity and describe the lender and terms of such line of credit in the action plan that identifies the float-funded activity. To qualify for this purpose, such line of credit must be unconditionally available to the recipient in the amount of any shortfall within 30 days of the date that the float-funded activity fails to generate the projected amount of program income on schedule;

(iii) Transfer general local government funds in the full amount of any default or shortfall to the CDBG line of credit within 30 days of the float-funded activity's failure to generate the projected amount of the program income on schedule; or

(iv) A method approved in writing by HUD for securing timely return of the amount of the float funding. Such method must ensure that funds are available to meet any default or shortfall within 30 days of the float-funded activity's failure to generate the projected amount of the program income on schedule.

(5) When preparing an action plan for a year in which program income is expected to be received from a float-funded activity, and such program income has been shown in a prior statement or action plan, the current action plan shall identify the expected income and explain that the planned use of the income has already been described in prior statements or action plans, and shall identify the statements or action plans in which such descriptions may be found.
