
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.404 Historically Black colleges and universities program.
######## Multiyear funding commitments.

(g)(1) HUD may make funding commitments of up to five years, subject to the availability of appropriations. In determining the number of years for which a commitment will be made, HUD will consider the nature of the activities proposed, the capability of the recipient to carry out the proposed activities, and year-by-year funding requirements.

(2) Awards will be made on the basis of a 12-month period of performance. Once a recipient has been selected for a multi-year award, that recipient would not be required to compete in a competition for the subsequent funding years covered by the multi-year funding commitment. Recipients performing satisfactorily will be invited to submit applications for subsequent funding years in accordance with requirements outlined in the Notice of Funding Availability and Request for Grant Application. Subject to the availability of appropriations, subsequent-year funding will be determined by the following:

(i) The recipient has submitted all reports required for the previous year or years in a timely, complete and satisfactory manner in accordance with the terms and conditions of the grant.

(ii) The recipient has submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate successful completion of the tasks and deliverables of the grant. A determination of satisfactory performance will be made by HUD based upon evidence of task completions provided by the recipient, along with data from client feedback and site evaluations.

(iii) The recipient has submitted the next annual application.

(iv) The subsequent year's application is consistent with that described in the original application.

(3) Recipients participating in multi-year funding projects are not eligible to apply for additional grants for the same project or activity subject area for which they are receiving funds. Recipients are, however, eligible to compete for grants for other project or activity areas.
