
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.410 Special Projects Program.
######## Proposals.

(d)Eligible applicants may submit unsolicited proposals. HUD may ask proposers to submit additional information if necessary for evaluation. There is no HUD commitment to fund any unsolicited proposal regardless of its merit. If HUD elects to fund a proposal, it will request that the proposer submit a formal application.

(1) Three (3) copies of a proposal must be sent to the address stated in (3), below. Each proposal submitted pursuant to this section shall be evaluated by HUD using the following criteria:

(i) The extent to which the proposal satisfies purposes of this title and addresses a special community development need.

(ii) The eligibility of proposed activities.

(iii) The feasibility of the project; i.e., its technical and financial feasibility for achieving the goals stated in the proposal.

(iv) The capacity of the proposer to carry out satisfactorily the proposed project activities.

(2) If the proposal is submitted jointly by, or on behalf of, more than one eligible applicant, the proposal must:

(i) Contain a cooperation agreement signed by the Chief Executive Officer of each participating jurisdiction which specifies concurrence with the purpose and intent of the proposal and intent to comply with grant requirements;

(ii) Address problems faced by all jurisdictions listed in the proposal; and,

(iii) Be submitted by the lead jurisdiction. The lead jurisdiction shall be responsible for overall coordination and administration of the project.

(3) Unsolicited proposals may be submitted any time during the year. However, if there are no funds available for such proposals, they will be returned without review. Proposals shall contain a Standard Form 424 signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the State or unit of general local government. They shall be sent to: Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Community Planning and Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410, Attention: Director, Office of Program Policy Development, CPP.
