
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.415 Community Development Work Study Program.
######## Areawide planning organizations and States.

(B)An APO or a State may apply for assistance for a program to be conducted by two or more institutions of higher education. Institutions participating in an APO program must be located within the particular area that is served by the APO and is identified by the State law or interlocal agreement creating the APO. Institutions of higher education participating in a State program must be located within the State.

(ii) To be eligible in future funding competitions for CDWSP, recipients are required to maintain a 50-percent rate of graduation from a CDWSP-funded academic program.

(iii) If an institution of higher education that submits an individual application is also included in the application of an APO or State, then the separate individual application of the institution of higher education will be disregarded. Additionally, if an institution of higher education is included in the application of both an APO and a State, then the references to the institution in the application of the State will be stricken. The State's application will then be ineligible if fewer than two institutions of higher education remain as participants in the State's application.
