
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.415 Community Development Work Study Program.
######## Recipient responsibilities.

(2)(i) The recipient is responsible for the administration of the program, for compliance with all program requirements, and for the coordination of program activities carried out by the work placement agencies and (if the recipient is an APO or State), by the participating institutions of higher education. The recipient must:

(A) Recruit and select students for participation in CDWSP. The recipient shall establish recruitment procedures that identify economically disadvantaged and minority students pursuing careers in community building, and make such students aware of the availability of assistance opportunities. Students must be selected before the beginning of the semester for which funding has been provided.

(B) Recruit and select work placement agencies, and negotiate and execute agreements covering each work placement assignment.

(C) Refer participating students to work placement agencies and assist students in the selection of work placement assignments.

(D) Assign sufficient staff to administer and supervise the program on a day-to-day basis, and, where the recipient is an APO or State, to monitor the activities of the work study coordinating committee.

(E) Encourage participating students to obtain employment for a minimum of two years after graduation with a unit of State or local government, Indian tribe or nonprofit organization engaged in community building.

(F) Maintain records by racial and ethnic categories for each economically disadvantaged student enrolled in the CDWSP.

(G) Keep records and make such reports as HUD may require.

(H) Comply with all other applicable Federal requirements.

(ii) If the recipient is an APO or State, the recipient must also:

(A) Establish a committee to coordinate activities between program participants, to advise the recipient on policy matters, to assist the recipient in ranking and selection of participating students, and to review disputes concerning compliance with program agreements and performance. The committee shall be chaired by a representative of the recipient, and shall include representatives of the participating institutions of higher education, work placement agencies, students, and HUD.

(B) Allocate the assistance awarded under the program to the participating institutions of higher education. APOs and States may not make fractional awards to institutions. (E.g., awards to institutions must assist a fixed number of students and not, for example, 6.5 students.)
