
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.415 Community Development Work Study Program.
######## Responsibilities.

(2)Work placement agencies must:

(i) Provide practical experience and training in community building.

(ii) Consult with the institution of higher education (and the APO or State, where an APO or State is the recipient) to ensure that the student's work placement assignment provides the requisite experience and training to meet the required number of work hours specified in the student work placement agreement.

(iii) Provide a sufficient number of work placement assignments to provide participating students with a wide choice of work experience.

(iv) Require each student to devote 12-20 hours per week during the regular school year, or 35-40 hours a week during the summer, to the work placement assignment. Work placement agencies may provide flexibility in the work period, if such a schedule is consistent with the requirements of the student's academic program. However, a participating student may receive stipend payment only during the period that the student is placed with the work placement agency.

(v) Comply with all other applicable Federal requirements.

(vi) Maintain such records as HUD may require.
