
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.415 Community Development Work Study Program.
######## Student responsibilities.

(3)Participating students must:

(i) Enroll in a two-year program. A student's academic and work placement responsibilities include: Full-time enrollment in an approved academic program; maintenance of a satisfactory level of performance in the community building academic program and in work placement assignments; and compliance with the professional conduct standards set by the recipient and the work placement agency. A satisfactory level of academic performance consists of maintaining a B average. A student's participation in CDWSP shall be terminated for failure to meet these responsibilities and standards. If a student's participation is terminated, the student is ineligible for further CDWSP assistance.

(ii) Agree to make a good-faith effort to obtain employment in community building with a unit of State or local government, an Indian tribe, or a nonprofit organization. The term of employment should be for at least two consecutive years following graduation from the academic program. If the student does not obtain such employment, the student is not required to repay the assistance received.
