
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.415 Community Development Work Study Program.
######## Deobligation and recipient repayment.

(3)(i) HUD may deobligate amounts for grants if proposed activities are not begun or completed within a reasonable time after selection.

(ii) If a student's participation in CDWSP is terminated before the completion of the two-year term of the student's program, the recipient may substitute another student to complete the two-year term of a student whose participation has terminated. The substituted student must have a sufficient number of academic credits to complete the degree program within the remaining portion of the terminated student's two-year term. With respect to any CDWSP grant, there is no requirement, regardless of the date of grant award, for students who are terminated from the CDWSP to repay tuition and additional assistance or for the grant recipient to repay such funds to HUD. Funds must still be otherwise expended consistent with CDWSP regulations and the grant agreement, or repayment may be required under paragraph (k)(3)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Consistent with 2 CFR part 200, HUD, in the grant agreement, will set forth in detail other circumstances under which funds may be deobligated, recipients may be liable for repayment, or other sanctions may be imposed.
