
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.416 Hispanic-serving institutions work study program.
######## Recipient responsibilities.

(2)The recipient is responsible for administering the program, for compliance with all program requirements, and for coordination of program activities carried out by the work placement agencies. The recipient must:

(i) Recruit students for participation in HSI-WSP. The recipient shall establish recruitment procedures that identify eligible economically disadvantaged and minority students pursuing careers in community building, and make them aware of the availability of assistance opportunities. While the program is restricted to HSIs, the recipient may neither restrict the program to any particular minority group or groups, nor provide any preferential treatment in the selection process based on race or ethnicity. Only economically disadvantaged students, as defined herein, may be assisted.

(ii) Select students for participation in HSI-WSP. In selecting among the eligible students, the recipient must consider the extent to which each student has demonstrated financial need under the applicable guidelines established at the institution of higher education; an interest in, and commitment to, a career in community building; and the ability to satisfactorily complete the academic and work placement responsibilities under HSI-WSP. Students must be selected before the beginning of the semester for which funding is being provided. If a student's participation terminates, the student may not be replaced; the grant will be reduced by the amount of unused funds allotted for that student.

(iii) Provide the educational component for participating students.

(iv) Recruit and select work placement agencies, and negotiate and execute an agreement covering each work placement assignment.

(v) Refer participating students to work placement agencies and assist students in the selection of work placement assignments.

(vi) Assign sufficient staff to administer and supervise the program on a day-to-day basis.

(vii) Encourage participating students to either: obtain post-graduation employment with a unit of State or local government, an areawide planning organization (APO), Indian tribe or nonprofit organization engaged in community building; or transfer to a four-year institution of higher education to obtain a bachelor's degree in a community building academic discipline.

(viii) Maintain records by racial and ethnic categories for each economically disadvantaged and minority student participating in HSI-WSP.

(ix) Keep records and make such reports as HUD may require.

(x) Comply with all other applicable Federal requirements.
