
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart E - Special Purpose Grants
####### ยง 570.416 Hispanic-serving institutions work study program.
######## Student responsibilities.

(2)Participating students must:

(i) Enroll or be enrolled in a two-year community building associate degree program. A student's academic and work placement responsibilities include: Full-time enrollment in an approved academic program; maintenance of a satisfactory level of performance in the community building academic program and in work placement assignments; and compliance with the professional conduct standards set by the recipient and by the work placement agency. A satisfactory level of academic performance consists of maintaining a B average, as defined by the institution. A student's participation in HSI-WSP shall be terminated for failure to meet these responsibilities and standards. If the student's participation is terminated, the student is ineligible for further HSI-WSP assistance.

(ii) Devote 12-20 hours per week during the regular school year, and 35-40 hours a week during the summer, to the work placement assignment. Work placement agencies may provide flexibility in the work period, if such a schedule is consistent with the requirements of the student's academic program. However, a participating student may receive a stipend payment only during the period when the student is placed with the work placement agency.

(iii) Agree to make a good-faith effort to either: obtain employment in community building with a unit of State or local government, an APO, an Indian tribe, or a non-profit organization; or to transfer to a four-year institution of higher education to obtain a bachelor's degree in a community building academic discipline. However, if the student does not obtain such employment or transfer to a four-year institution, the student is not required to repay the assistance received.
