
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart F - Small Cities, Non-Entitlement CDBG Grants in Hawaii and Insular Areas Programs
####### § 570.420 General.
######## Scope and applicability.

(b)(1) This subpart describes the policies and procedures of the Small Cities program that apply to non-entitlement areas in states where HUD administers the CDBG program. HUD currently administers the Small Cities program in only two states-New York (for grants prior to FY 2000) and Hawaii (for non-entitlement CDBG grants in Hawaii). The Small Cities portion of this subpart addresses the requirements for New York Small Cities grants in §§ 570.421, 570.426, 570.427, and 570.431. Section 570.429 identifies special procedures applicable to Hawaii.

(2) This subpart also describes the policies and procedures governing community development block grants to insular areas under section 106 of the Act. Sections 570.440 and 570.441 identify procedures applicable to the Insular Areas program under section 106 of the Act. Fund reservations for insular areas under section 107 of the Act shall remain governed by the policies and procedures described in section 107(a)(1)(A) of the Act and §§ 570.400 and 570.405 of this part.

(3) The policies and procedures set forth in the following identified subparts of this part apply to the HUD-administered Small Cities and Insular Areas programs, except as modified or limited under the provisions thereof or this subpart:

(i) Subpart A-General Provisions;

(ii) Subpart C-Eligible Activities;

(iii) Subpart J-Grant Administration;

(iv) Subpart K-Other Program Requirements;

(v) Subpart M-Loan Guarantees; and

(vi) Subpart O-Performance Reviews.
