
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart F - Small Cities, Non-Entitlement CDBG Grants in Hawaii and Insular Areas Programs
####### ยง 570.421 New York Small Cities Program design.
######## Eligible applicants.

(c)(1) Eligible applicants in New York are units of general local government, excluding: Metropolitan cities, urban counties, units of general local government which are participating in urban counties or metropolitan cities, even if only part of the participating unit of government is located in the urban county or metropolitan city. Indian tribes are also ineligible for assistance under this subpart. An application may be submitted individually or jointly by eligible applicants.

(2) Counties, cities, towns, and villages may apply and receive funding for separate projects to be done in the same jurisdiction. Only one grant will be made under each funding round for the same type of project to be located within the jurisdiction of a unit of general local government (e.g., both the county and village cannot receive funding for a sewer system to be located in the same village, but the county can receive funding for a sewer system that is located in the same village as a rehabilitation project for which the village receives funding). The NOFA will contain additional information on applicant eligibility.

(3) Counties may apply on behalf of units of general local government located within their jurisdiction when the unit of general local government has authorized the county to apply. At the time that the county submits its application for funding, it must submit a resolution by the governing body of the unit of local government that authorizes the county to submit an application on behalf of the unit of general local government. The county will be considered the grantee and will be responsible for executing all grant documents. The county is responsible for ensuring compliance with all laws, regulations, and Executive Orders applicable to the CDBG Program. HUD will deal exclusively with the county with respect to issues of program administration and performance, including remedial actions. The unit of general local government will be considered the grantee for the purpose of determining grant limits. The unit of general local government's statistics will be used for purposes of the selection factors referred to in ยง 570.421(a).
