
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Urban Development Action Grants
####### ยง 570.456 Ineligible activities and limitations on eligible activities.

(a) Large cities and urban counties may not use assistance under this subpart for planning the project or developing the application. However, they may use entitlement community development block grant funds for this purpose, provided that the UDAG project meets the eligibility test of this part. Any small city which submits a project application which is selected for preliminary approval and for which legally binding grant agreement and for which a release of funds pursuant to 24 CFR part 58 has been issued may devote up to three (3) percent of the approved amount of its action grant to defray its actual costs in planning the project and preparing its application.

(b) Assistance under this subpart may not be used for public services as described in ยง 570.201(e).

(c)(1) No assistance may be provided under this subpart for speculative projects intended to facilitate the relocation of industrial or commercial plants or facilities from one area to another. The provisions of this paragraph (c)(1) shall not apply to a relocation of any such plant or facility within a metropolitan area.

(i) HUD will presume that a proposed project which includes speculative commercial or industrial space is intended to facilitate the relocation of a plant or facility from one area to another, if it is demonstrated to HUD's satisfaction that:

(A) The proposed project is reasonably proximate (i.e., within 50 miles) to an area from which there has been a significant current pattern of movement, to areas reasonably proximate, of jobs of the category for which such space is appropriate; and

(B) There is a likelihood of continuation of the pattern, based on measurable comparisons between the area from which the movement has been occurring and the area of the proposed project in terms of tax rates, energy costs, and similar relevant factors.

(ii) The restrictions established in this paragraph (c)(1) shall not apply if the Secretary determines that the relocation does not significantly and adversely affect the employment or economic base of the area from which the industrial or commercial plant or facility is to be relocated. However, the Secretary will not be required to make a determination whether there is a significant and adverse effect. If such a determination is undertaken, the Secretary will presume that there is a significant and adverse effect where the significant pattern of job movement and the likelihood of continuation of such a pattern has been from a distressed community.

(iii) The presumptions established in accordance with this paragraph (c)(1) are rebuttable by the applicant. However, the burden of overcoming the presumptions will be on the applicant.

(iv) The presumptions established in this paragraph (c)(1) will not apply if the speculative space contained in a commercial or industrial plant or facility included in a project constitutes a lesser percentage of the total space contained in that plant or facility than the threshold amounts specified below:
