
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Urban Development Action Grants
####### ยง 570.456 Ineligible activities and limitations on eligible activities.
######## Assistance for individuals adversely affected by prohibited relocations.

(4)(i) Any amount withdrawn by, recaptured by, or paid to the Secretary because of a violation (or a settlement of an alleged violation) of this section (or any regulation issued or contractual provision entered into to carry out this section) by a project with identified intended occupants will be made available by the Secretary as a grant to the UDAG eligible jurisdiction from which the operation of an industrial or commercial plant or facility or other business establishment was relocated, or in which the operation was reduced.

(ii)(A) Any amount made available under this paragraph shall be used by the grantee to assist individuals who were employed by the operation involved before the relocation or reduction and whose employment or terms of employment were adversely affected by the relocation or reduction. The assistance shall include job training, job retraining, and job placement.

(B) If any amount made available to a grantee under this paragraph (c)(4) is more than is required to provide the assistance described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, the grantee shall use the excess amount to carry out community development activities eligible under section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.

(iii)(A) The provisions of this paragraph (c)(4) shall be applicable to any amount withdrawn by, recaptured by, or paid to the Secretary under this section, including any amount withdrawn, recaptured, or paid before the effective date of this paragraph.

(B) Grants may be made under this paragraph (c)(4) only to the extent of amounts provided in appropriation Acts.

(5) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:

(i) "Operation" means any plant, equipment, facility, substantial number of positions, substantial employment opportunities, production capacity, or product line.

(ii) "Metropolitan area" means a metropolitan area as defined in ยง 570.3 and which consists of either a freestanding metropolitan area or a primary metropolitan statistical area where both primary and consolidated areas exist.

(iii) "Likely" means probably or reasonably to be expected, as determined by firm evidence such as resolutions of a corporation to close a plant or facility, notifications of closure to collective bargaining units, correspondence and notifications of corporate officials relative to a closure, and supportive evidence, such as newspaper articles and notices to employees regarding closure of a plant or facility. Consultant studies and marketing studies may be submitted as supportive evidence, but by themselves are not firm evidence.

(iv) "UDAG eligible jurisdiction" means a distressed community, a Pocket of Poverty, a Pocket of Poverty community, or an identifiable community described in section 119(p) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.

(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, nothing in this subpart may be construed to permit an inference or conclusion that the policy of the urban development action grant program is to facilitate the relocation of businesses from one area to another.
