
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Urban Development Action Grants
####### ยง 570.466 Additional application submission requirements for Pockets of Poverty - employment opportunities.

Applicants for Action Grants under the Pockets of Poverty provision must describe the number and, to the extent possible, the types of new jobs (construction and permanent) that will be provided to the low- and moderate-income residents of the Pocket of Poverty as a direct result of the proposed project. If the application calls for job training programs (such as those related to the CETA program) or job recruiting services for the pocket's residents, then such proposed activities must be clearly and fully explained. HUD requires applicants to ensure that at least 75 percent of whatever permanent jobs initially result from the project are provided to low- and moderate-income persons and that at least 51 percent of whatever permanent jobs initially result from the project are provided to low- and moderate-income residents from the pocket. HUD encourages applicants to ensure that at least 20 percent of all permanent jobs are filled by persons from the pocket qualified to participate in the CETA program on a continuous basis. HUD requires all applicants to continuously use best efforts to ensure that at least 75 percent of all permanent jobs resulting from any Action Grant-assisted project are provided to low- and moderate-income persons and that at least 51 percent of all permanent jobs resulting from any Action Grant-assisted project are provided to low- and moderate-income residents from the pocket. The application should clearly describe how the applicant intends to meet initial and continuous job requirements. Private participating parties must meet these employment requirements in the aggregate. To enable the private participants to do so, lease agreements executed by a private participating party shall include:

(a) Provisions requiring lessees to follow hiring practices that the private participating party has determined will enable it to meet these requirements in the aggregate; and

(b) Provisions that will enable the private participating party to declare a default under the lease agreement if the lessees do not follow such practices.
