
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
#### Subpart C - Program Accessibility
##### ยง 8.25 Public housing and multi-family Indian housing.
###### Existing public housing and multi-family Indian housing-needs assessment and transition plan.

(c)As soon as possible, each PHA (for the purpose of this paragraph, this includes an Indian Housing Authority) shall assess, on a PHA-wide basis, the needs of current tenants and applicants on its waiting list for accessible units and the extent to which such needs have not been met or cannot reasonably be met within four years through development, alterations otherwise contemplated, or other programs administered by the PHA (e.g., Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation or Section 8 Existing Housing or Housing Vouchers). If the PHA currently has no accessible units or if the PHA or HUD determines that information regarding the availability of accessible units has not been communicated sufficiently so that, as a result, the number of eligible qualified individuals with handicaps on the waiting list is not fairly representative of the number of such persons in the area, the PHA's assessment shall include the needs of eligible qualified individuals with handicaps in the area. If the PHA determines, on the basis of such assessment, that there is no need for additional accessible dwelling units or that the need is being or will be met within four years through other means, such as new construction, Section 8 or alterations otherwise contemplated, no further action is required by the PHA under this paragraph. If the PHA determines, on the basis of its needs assessment, that alterations to make additional units accessible must be made so that the needs of eligible qualified individuals with handicaps may be accommodated proportionally to the needs of non-handicapped individuals in the same categories, then the PHA shall develop a transition plan to achieve program accessibility. The PHA shall complete the needs assessment and transition plan, if one is necessary, as expeditiously as possible, but in any event no later than two years after July 11, 1988. The PHA shall complete structural changes necessary to achieve program accessibility as soon as possible but in any event no later than four years after July 11, 1988. The Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity and the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing may extend the four year period for a period not to exceed two years, on a case-by-case determination that compliance within that period would impose undue financial and administrative burdens on the operation of the recipient's public housing and multi-family Indian housing program. The Secretary or the Undersecretary may further extend this time period in extraordinary circumstances, for a period not to exceed one year. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps. A copy of the needs assessment and transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The transition plan shall, at a minimum-

(1) Identify physical obstacles in the PHA's facilities (e.g., dwelling units and common areas) that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;

(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the PHA's facilities accessible. A PHA may, if necessary, provide in its plan that it will seek HUD approval, under 24 CFR part 968, of a comprehensive modernization program to meet the needs of eligible individuals with handicaps;

(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period;

(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan; and

(5) Identify the persons or groups with whose assistance the plan was prepared.
