
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart I - State Community Development Block Grant Program
####### ยง 570.483 Criteria for national objectives.
######## Area benefit activities.

(1)(i) An activity, the benefits of which are available to all the residents in a particular area, where at least 51 percent of the residents are low and moderate income persons. Such an area need not be coterminous with census tracts or other officially recognized boundaries but must be the entire area served by the activity. Units of general local government may, at the discretion of the state, use either HUD-provided data comparing census data with appropriate low and moderate income levels or survey data that is methodologically sound. An activity that serves an area that is not primarily residential in character shall not qualify under this criterion.

(ii) An activity, where the assistance is to a public improvement that provides benefits to all the residents of an area, that is limited to paying special assessments levied against residential properties owned and occupied by persons of low and moderate income.

(iii)(A) An activity to develop, establish and operate (not to exceed two years after establishment), a uniform emergency telephone number system serving an area having less than 51 percent of low and moderate income residents, when the system has not been made operational before the receipt of CDBG funds, provided a prior written determination is obtained from HUD. HUD's determination will be based upon certifications by the State that:
