
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart I - State Community Development Block Grant Program
####### ยง 570.483 Criteria for national objectives.
######## Housing activities.

(3)An eligible activity carried out for the purpose of providing or improving permanent residential structures that, upon completion, will be occupied by low and moderate income households. This would include, but not necessarily be limited to, the acquisition or rehabilitation of property by the unit of general local government, a subrecipient, an entity eligible to receive assistance under section 105(a)(15) of the Act, a developer, an individual homebuyer, or an individual homeowner; conversion of nonresidential structures; and new housing construction. If the structure contains two dwelling units, at least one must be so occupied, and if the structure contains more than two dwelling units, at least 51 percent of the units must be so occupied. If two or more rental buildings being assisted are or will be located on the same or contiguous properties, and the buildings will be under common ownership and management, the grouped buildings may be considered for this purpose as a single structure. If housing activities being assisted meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(ii) or (e)(5)(ii) of this section, all such housing may also be considered for this purpose as a single structure. For rental housing, occupancy by low and moderate income households must be at affordable rents to qualify under this criterion. The unit of general local government shall adopt and make public its standards for determining "affordable rents" for this purpose. The following shall also qualify under this criterion:

(i) When less than 51 percent of the units in a structure will be occupied by low and moderate income households, CDBG assistance may be provided in the following limited circumstances:

(A) The assistance is for an eligible activity to reduce the development cost of the new construction of a multifamily, non-elderly rental housing project; and

(B) Not less than 20 percent of the units will be occupied by low and moderate income households at affordable rents; and

(C) The proportion of the total cost of developing the project to be borne by CDBG funds is no greater than the proportion of units in the project that will be occupied by low and moderate income households.

(ii) Where CDBG funds are used to assist rehabilitation delivery services or in direct support of the unit of general local government's Rental Rehabilitation Program authorized under 24 CFR part 511, the funds shall be considered to benefit low and moderate income persons where not less than 51 percent of the units assisted, or to be assisted, by the Rental Rehabilitation Program overall are for low and moderate income persons.

(iii) When CDBG funds are used for housing services eligible under section 105(a)(21) of the Act, such funds shall be considered to benefit low and moderate income persons if the housing units for which the services are provided are HOME-assisted and the requirements of ยง 92.252 or ยง 92.254 of this title are met.
