
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart I - State Community Development Block Grant Program
####### ยง 570.489 Program administrative requirements.
######## Cumulative accounting of administrative costs incurred by the State since its assumption of the CDBG program for grants before origin year 2015.

(B)Under this approach, the State will identify, for each grant it has received, the CDBG funds eligible to be used for State administrative expenses, as well as the minimum amount of matching funds that the State is required to contribute. The amounts will then be aggregated for all grants received. The State must keep records demonstrating the actual amount of CDBG funds from each grant received that was used for State administrative expenses, as well as matching amounts that were contributed by the State. The State will be considered to be in compliance with the applicable requirements if the aggregate of the actual amounts of CDBG funds spent on State administrative expenses does not exceed the aggregate maximum allowable amount and if the aggregate amount of matching funds that the State has expended is equal to or greater than the aggregate amount of CDBG funds in excess of $100,000 (for each annual grant within the subject period) spent on administrative expenses during its 3- to 5-year Consolidated Planning period. If the State grant for any grant year within the 3- to 5-year period has been closed out, the aggregate amount of CDBG funds spent on State administrative expenses, the aggregate maximum allowable amount, the aggregate matching funds expended, and the aggregate amount of CDBG funds in excess of $100,000 (for each annual grant within the subject period) will be reduced by amounts attributable to the grant year for which the State grant has been closed out.

(2) The State may not charge fees of any entity for processing or considering any application for CDBG funds, or for carrying out its responsibilities under this subpart.

(3)(i) Administrative costs are those described at ยง 570.489(a)(1) for States and, for units of general local government, are those described at sections 105(a)(12) and (a)(13) of the Act.

(ii) The combined expenditures by the State and its funded units of general local government for planning, management, and administrative costs shall not exceed 20 percent of the aggregate amount of the origin year grant, any origin year grant funds reallocated by HUD to the State, and the amount of any program income received during the program year.

(iii) For origin year 2015 grants and subsequent grants, no more than 20 percent of any annual grant (excluding program income) shall be expended by the State and its funded units of general local government for planning, management, and administrative costs. In addition, the combined expenditures by the States and its unit of general local government for planning, management, and administrative costs shall not exceed 20 percent of any origin year grant funds reallocated by HUD to the State.

(iv) Funds from a grant of any origin year may be used to pay planning and program administrative costs associated with any grant of any origin year.
