
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart I - State Community Development Block Grant Program
####### ยง 570.489 Program administrative requirements.
######## Program income retained by a unit of general local government.

(ii)A State may permit a unit of general local government that receives or will receive program income to retain it. Alternatively, a State may require that the unit of general local government pay any such income to the State unless the exception in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) of this section applies.

(A) A State must permit the unit of general local government to retain the program income if the program income will be used to continue the activity from which it was derived. A State will determine when an activity is being continued. In making such a determination, a State may consider whether the unit of general local government is or will be unable to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(B) of this section or other requirements of this part, and the extent to which the program income is unlikely to be applied to continue the activity within the reasonably near future. When a State determines that the program income will be applied to continue the activity from which it was derived, but the amount of program income held by the unit of general local government exceeds projected cash needs for the reasonably near future, the State may require the local government to return all or part of the program income to the State until such time as it is needed by the unit of general local government. When a State determines that a unit of local government is not likely to apply any significant amount of program income to continue the activity within a reasonable amount of time, or that it is not likely to apply the program income in accordance with applicable requirements, the State may require the unit of general local government to return all of the program income to the State for disbursement to other units of local government. A State that intends to require units of general local government to return program income in accordance with this paragraph must describe its approach in the State's action plan required under 24 CFR 91.320 of this title or in a substantial amendment if the State intends to implement this option after the action plan is submitted to and approved by HUD.

(B) Program income that is received and retained by the unit of general local government is treated as additional CDBG funds and is subject to all applicable requirements of this subpart, regardless of whether the activity that generated the program income has been closed out. If the grant between the State and the unit of general local government that generated the program income is still open when it is generated, program income permitted to be retained will be considered part of the unit of general local government's grant that generated the program income. If the grant between the State and the unit of general local government is closed out, program income permitted to be retained will be considered to be part of the unit of general local government's most recently awarded open grant. If the unit of general local government has no open grants with the State, the program income retained by the unit of general local government will be counted as part of the State's program year in which the program income was received. A State must employ one or more of the following methods to ensure that units of general local government comply with applicable program income requirements:
