
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart I - State Community Development Block Grant Program
####### ยง 570.489 Program administrative requirements.
######## Procurement.

(g)When procuring property or services to be paid for in whole or in part with CDBG funds, the State shall follow its procurement policies and procedures. The State shall establish requirements for procurement policies and procedures for units of general local government, based on full and open competition. Methods of procurement (e.g., small purchase, sealed bids/formal advertising, competitive proposals, and noncompetitive proposals) and their applicability shall be specified by the State. Cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction costs methods of contracting shall not be used. The policies and procedures shall also include standards of conduct governing employees engaged in the award or administration of contracts. (Other conflicts of interest are covered by ยง 570.489(h).) The State shall ensure that all purchase orders and contracts include any clauses required by Federal statutes, Executive orders, and implementing regulations. The State shall make subrecipient and contractor determinations in accordance with the standards in 2 CFR 200.330.
