
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart J - Grant Administration
####### § 570.506 Records to be maintained.
######## 2

() A listing by job title of the permanent jobs to be created, identifying which are part-time, if any;

(B) A listing by job title of the permanent jobs filled and which jobs were initially held by low and moderate income persons; and

(C) For each such low and moderate income person hired, the size and annual income of the person's family prior to the person being hired for the job.

(6) For each activity determined to benefit low and moderate income persons based on the retention of jobs:

(i) Evidence that in the absence of CDBG assistance jobs would be lost;

(ii) For each business assisted, a listing by job title of permanent jobs retained, indicating which of those jobs are part-time and (where it is known) which are held by low and moderate income persons at the time the CDBG assistance is provided. Where applicable, identification of any of the retained jobs (other than those known to be held by low and moderate income persons) which are projected to become available to low and moderate income persons through job turnover within two years of the time CDBG assistance is provided. Information upon which the job turnover projections were based shall also be included in the record;

(iii) For each retained job claimed to be held by a low and moderate income person, information on the size and annual income of the person's family;

(iv) For jobs claimed to be available to low and moderate income persons based on job turnover, a description covering the items required for "available to" jobs in paragraph (b)(5) of this section; and

(v) Where jobs were claimed to be available to low and moderate income persons through turnover, a listing of each job which has turned over to date, indicating which of those jobs were either taken by, or available to, low and moderate income persons. For jobs made available, a description of how first consideration was given to such persons for those jobs shall also be included in the record.

(7) For purposes of documenting, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5)(i)(B), (b)(5)(ii)(C), (b)(6)(iii) or (b)(6)(v) of this section, that the person for whom a job was either filled by or made available to a low- or moderate-income person based upon the census tract where the person resides or in which the business is located, the recipient, in lieu of maintaining records showing the person's family size and income, may substitute records showing either the person's address at the time the determination of income status was made or the address of the business providing the job, as applicable, the census tract in which that address was located, the percent of persons residing in that tract who either are in poverty or who are low- and moderate-income, as applicable, the data source used for determining the percentage, and a description of the pervasive poverty and general distress in the census tract in sufficient detail to demonstrate how the census tract met the criteria in § 570.208(a)(4)(v), as applicable.

(8) For each activity determined to aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight based on addressing one or more of the conditions which qualified an area as a slum or blighted area:

(i) The boundaries of the area; and

(ii) A description of the conditions which qualified the area at the time of its designation in sufficient detail to demonstrate how the area met the criteria in § 570.208(b)(1).

(9) For each residential rehabilitation activity determined to aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight in a slum or blighted area:

(i) The local definition of "substandard";

(ii) A pre-rehabilitation inspection report describing the deficiencies in each structure to be rehabilitated; and

(iii) Details and scope of CDBG assisted rehabilitation, by structure.

(10) For each activity determined to aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight based on the elimination of specific conditions of blight or physical decay not located in a slum or blighted area:

(i) A description of the specific condition of blight or physical decay treated; and

(ii) For rehabilitation carried out under this category, a description of the specific conditions detrimental to public health and safety which were identified and the details and scope of the CDBG assisted rehabilitation by structure.

(11) For each activity determined to aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight based on addressing slums or blight in an urban renewal area, a copy of the Urban Renewal Plan, as in effect at the time the activity is carried out, including maps and supporting documentation.

(12) For each activity determined to meet a community development need having a particular urgency:

(i) Documentation concerning the nature and degree of seriousness of the condition requiring assistance;

(ii) Evidence that the recipient certified that the CDBG activity was designed to address the urgent need;

(iii) Information on the timing of the development of the serious condition; and

(iv) Evidence confirming that other financial resources to alleviate the need were not available.

(c)(1) Records that demonstrate that the recipient has made the determinations required as a condition of eligibility of certain activities, as prescribed in §§ 570.201(f), 570.201(i)(2), 570.201(p), 570.201(q), 570.202(b)(3), 570.206(f), 570.209, 570.210, and 570.309.

(2) Where applicable, records which either demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 570.202(g) or § 570.204(a)(5) or document the State's or State's grant recipient's basis for an exception to the requirements of those paragraphs.

(d) Records which demonstrate compliance with § 570.503(b)(7) or § 570.505 regarding any change of use of real property acquired or improved with CDBG assistance.

(e) Records that demonstrate compliance with the citizen participation requirements prescribed in 24 CFR part 91, subpart B, for entitlement recipients, or in 24 CFR part 91, subpart C, for HUD-administered small cities recipients.

(f) Records which demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 570.606 regarding acquisition, displacement, relocation, and replacement housing.

(g) Fair housing and equal opportunity records containing:

(1) Documentation of the actions the participating jurisdiction has taken to affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151, 5.152, 91.225, 91.325, and 91.425 of this title.

(2) Data on the extent to which each racial and ethnic group and single-headed households (by gender of household head) have applied for, participated in, or benefited from, any program or activity funded in whole or in part with CDBG funds. Such information shall be used only as a basis for further investigation as to compliance with nondiscrimination requirements. No recipient is required to attain or maintain any particular statistical measure by race, ethnicity, or gender in covered programs.

(3) Data on employment in each of the recipient's operating units funded in whole or in part with CDBG funds, with such data maintained in the categories prescribed on the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's EEO-4 form; and documentation of any actions undertaken to assure equal employment opportunities to all persons regardless of race, color, national origin, sex or handicap in operating units funded in whole or in part under this part.

(4) Data indicating the race and ethnicity of households (and gender of single heads of households) displaced as a result of CDBG funded activities, together with the address and census tract of the housing units to which each displaced household relocated. Such information shall be used only as a basis for further investigation as to compliance with nondiscrimination requirements. No recipient is required to attain or maintain any particular statistical measure by race, ethnicity, or gender in covered programs.

(5) Documentation of actions undertaken to meet the requirements of § 570.607(b) which implements section 3 of the Housing Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701U) relative to the hiring and training of low and moderate income persons and the use of local businesses.

(6) Data indicating the racial/ethnic character of each business entity receiving a contract or subcontract of $25,000 or more paid, or to be paid, with CDBG funds, data indicating which of those entities are women's business enterprises as defined in Executive Order 12138, the amount of the contract or subcontract, and documentation of recipient's affirmative steps to assure that minority business and women's business enterprises have an equal opportunity to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. Such affirmative steps may include, but are not limited to, technical assistance open to all businesses but designed to enhance opportunities for these enterprises and special outreach efforts to inform them of contract opportunities. Such steps shall not include preferring any business in the award of any contract or subcontract solely or in part on the basis of race or gender.

(7) Documentation of the affirmative action measures the recipient has taken to overcome prior discrimination, where the courts or HUD have found that the recipient has previously discriminated against persons on the ground of race, color, national origin or sex in administering a program or activity funded in whole or in part with CDBG funds.

(h) Financial records, in accordance with the applicable requirements listed in § 570.502, including source documentation for entities not subject to 2 CFR part 200. Grantees shall maintain evidence to support how the CDBG funds provided to such entities are expended. Such documentation must include, to the extent applicable, invoices, schedules containing comparisons of budgeted amounts and actual expenditures, construction progress schedules signed by appropriate parties (e.g., general contractor and/or a project architect), and/or other documentation appropriate to the nature of the activity. Grantee records pertaining to obligations, expenditures, and drawdowns must be able to relate financial transactions to either a specific origin year grant or to program income received during a specific program year.

(i) Agreements and other records related to lump sum disbursements to private financial institutions for financing rehabilitation as prescribed in § 570.513; and

(j) Records required to be maintained in accordance with other applicable laws and regulations set forth in subpart K of this part.
