
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
#### Subpart D - Enforcement
##### ยง 8.54 Notice.

(a) A recipient that employs fifteen or more persons shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of this part. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its federally assisted programs and activities. The notification shall also include an identification of the responsible employee designated pursuant to ยง 8.53. A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of July 11, 1988. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include the posting of notices, publication in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipients' publications, and distribution of memoranda or other written communications.

(b) If a recipient publishes or uses recruitment materials or publications containing general information that it makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants, or employees, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section. A recipient may meet the requirement of this paragraph either by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.

(c) The recipient shall ensure that members of the population eligible to be served or likely to be affected directly by a federally assisted program who have visual or hearing impairments are provided with the information necessary to understand and participate in the program. Methods for ensuring participation include, but are not limited to, qualified sign language and oral interpreters, readers, or the use of taped and Braille materials.
