
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart J - Grant Administration
####### ยง 570.509 Grant closeout procedures.
######## Criteria for closeout.

(a)HUD may make grant closeout determinations for individual grants or multiple grants simultaneously. A grant will be closed out when HUD determines, in consultation with the recipient, that the following criteria have been met:

(1) All costs to be paid with CDBG funds from a given origin year's grant have been expended and drawn down, with the exception of closeout costs (e.g., audit costs) and costs resulting from contingent liabilities described in the closeout agreement pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. Contingent liabilities include, but are not limited to, third-party claims against the recipient, as well as related administrative costs.

(2) All activities for which funds were expended from the origin year grant are physically completed, are eligible, have met a national objective under ยง 570.208, and the grantee has reported on all accomplishments resulting from the activity.

(3) A final performance and expenditure report for completed activities has been submitted to HUD pursuant to 24 CFR 91.520, and HUD has determined the plan is satisfactory.

(4) All program income received by the grantee during the grantee program year associated with the origin year grant has been expended, or identified in a more recent program year's Action Plan, pursuant to 24 CFR 91.220(l).

(5) For origin year 2015 grants and subsequent grants, the grantee has expended no more than 20 percent of the origin year grant for planning and program administrative costs, under ยง 570.200(g)(1).

(6) Other responsibilities of the recipient under the grant agreement and applicable laws and regulations appear to have been carried out satisfactorily or there is no further Federal interest in keeping the grant agreement open for the purpose of securing performance.
