
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart J - Grant Administration
####### ยง 570.513 Lump sum drawdown for financing of property rehabilitation activities.
######## Provision of consideration.

(9)In consideration for the lump sum deposit by the recipient in a private financial institution, the deposit must result in appropriate benefits in support of the recipient's local rehabilitation program. Minimum requirements for such benefits are:

(i) Grantees shall require the financial institution to pay interest on the lump sum deposit.

(A) The interest rate paid by the financial institution shall be no more than three points below the rate on one year Treasury obligations at constant maturity.

(B) When an agreement sets a fixed interest rate for the entire term of the agreement, the rate should be based on the rate at the time the agreement is excuted.

(C) The agreement may provide for an interest rate that would fluctuate periodically during the term of the agreement, but at no time shall the rate be established at more than three points below the rate on one year Treasury obligations at constant maturity.

(ii) In addition to the payment of interest, at least one of the following benefits must be provided by the financial institution:

(A) Leverage of the deposited funds so that the financial institution commits private funds for loans in the rehabilitation program in an amount substantially in excess of the amount of the lump sum deposit;

(B) Commitment of private funds by the financial institution for rehabilitation loans at below market interest rates, at higher than normal risk, or with longer than normal repayment periods; or

(C) Provision of administrative services in support of the rehabilitation program by the participating financial institution at no cost or at lower than actual cost.
