
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart M - Loan Guarantees
####### § 570.703 Eligible activities.

Guaranteed loan funds may be used for the following activities, provided such activities meet the requirements of § 570.200. However, guaranteed loan funds may not be used to reimburse the CDBG program account or line of credit for costs incurred by the public entity or designated public agency and paid with CDBG grant funds or program income.

(a) Acquisition of improved or unimproved real property in fee or by long-term lease, including acquisition for economic development purposes.

(b) Rehabilitation of real property owned or acquired by the public entity or its designated public agency.

(c) Payment of interest on obligations guaranteed under this subpart.

(d) Relocation payments and other relocation assistance for individuals, families, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farm operations who must relocate permanently or temporarily as a result of an activity financed with guaranteed loan funds, where the assistance is:

(1) Required under the provisions of § 570.606(b) or (c); or

(2) Determined by the public entity to be appropriate under the provisions of § 570.606(d).

(e) Clearance, demolition, and removal, including movement of structures to other sites and remediation of properties with known or suspected environmental contamination, of buildings and improvements on real property acquired or rehabilitated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Remediation may include project-specific environmental assessment costs not otherwise eligible under § 570.205.

(f) Site preparation, including construction, reconstruction, installation of public and other site improvements, utilities or facilities (other than buildings), or remediation of properties (remediation can include project-specific environmental assessment costs not otherwise eligible under § 570.205) with known or suspected environmental contamination, which is:

(1) Related to the redevelopment or use of the real property acquired or rehabilitated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or

(2) For an economic development purpose.

(g) Payment of issuance, underwriting, servicing, trust administration and other costs associated with private sector financing of debt obligations under this subpart.

(h) Housing rehabilitation eligible under § 570.202.

(i) The following economic development activities:

(1) Activities eligible under § 570.203; and

(2) Community economic development projects eligible under § 570.204.

(j) Construction of housing by non-profit organizations for homeownership under section 17(d) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (Housing Development Grants Program, 24 CFR part 850).

(k) A debt service reserve to be used in accordance with requirements specified in the contract entered into pursuant to § 570.705(b)(1).

(l) Acquisition, construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or historic preservation, or installation of public facilities (except for buildings for the general conduct of government) to the extent eligible under § 570.201(c), including public streets, sidewalks, other site improvements and public utilities, and remediation of known or suspected environmental contamination in conjunction with these activities. Remediation may include project-specific environmental assessment costs not otherwise eligible under § 570.205.

(m) In the case of applications by public entities which are, or which contain, "colonias" as defined in section 916 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 5306 note), as amended by section 810 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, acquisition, construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or installation of public works and site or other improvements which serve the colonia.

(n) Payment of fees charged by HUD pursuant to § 570.712.
