
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart M - Loan Guarantees
####### § 570.704 Application requirements.
######## Submission requirements.

(b)An application for loan guarantee assistance may be submitted at any time. The application (or consolidated plan) shall be submitted to the appropriate HUD Office and shall be accompanied by the following:

(1) A description of how each of the activities to be carried out with the guaranteed loan funds meets one of the criteria in § 570.208.

(2) A schedule for repayment of the loan which identifies the sources of repayment, together with a statement identifying the entity that will act as borrower and issue the debt obligations.

(3) A certification providing assurance that the public entity possesses the legal authority to make the pledge of grants required under § 570.705(b)(2).

(4) A certification providing assurance that the public entity has made efforts to obtain financing for activities described in the application without the use of the loan guarantee, the public entity will maintain documentation of such efforts for the term of the loan guarantee, and the public entity cannot complete such financing consistent with the timely execution of the program plans without such guarantee.

(5)-(6) [Reserved]

(7) The anti-lobbying statement required under 24 CFR part 87 (appendix A).

(8) Certifications by the public entity that:

(i) It possesses the legal authority to submit the application for assistance under this subpart and to use the guaranteed loan funds in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.

(ii) Its governing body has duly adopted or passed as an official act a resolution, motion or similar official action:

(A) Authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the public entity to submit the application and amendments thereto and all understandings and assurances contained therein, and directing and authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the public entity to act in connection with the application to provide such additional information as may be required; and

(B) Authorizing such official representative to execute such documents as may be required in order to implement the application and issue debt obligations pursuant thereto (provided that the authorization required by this paragraph (B) may be given by the local governing body after submission of the application but prior to execution of the contract required by § 570.705(b);

(iii) Before submission of its application to HUD, the public entity has:

(A) Furnished citizens with information required by § 570.704(a)(2)(i);

(B) Held at least one public hearing to obtain the views of citizens on community development and housing needs; and

(C) Prepared its application in accordance with § 570.704(a)(1)(iv) and made the application available to the public.

(iv) It is following a detailed citizen participation plan which meets the requirements described in § 570.704(a)(2).

(v) The public entity will affirmatively further fair housing, and the guaranteed loan funds will be administered in compliance with:
