
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart M - Loan Guarantees
####### § 570.704 Application requirements.
######## et seq.

(A) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); and

(B) The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619).

(vi)(A) (For entitlement public entities only.) In the aggregate, at least 70 percent of all CDBG funds, as defined at § 570.3, to be expended during the one, two, or three consecutive years specified by the public entity for its CDBG program will be for activities which benefit low and moderate income persons, as described in criteria at § 570.208(a).

(B) (For nonentitlement public entities eligible under subpart F of this part only.) It will comply with primary and national objectives requirements, as applicable under subpart F of this part.

(vii) It will comply with the requirements governing displacement, relocation, real property acquisition, and the replacement of low and moderate income housing described in § 570.606.

(viii) It will comply with the requirements of § 570.200(c)(2) with regard to the use of special assessments to recover the capital costs of activities assisted with guaranteed loan funds.

(ix) (Where applicable, the public entity may also include the following additional certification.) It lacks sufficient resources from funds provided under this subpart or program income to allow it to comply with the provisions of § 570.200(c)(2), and it must therefore assess properties owned and occupied by moderate income persons, to recover the guaranteed loan funded portion of the capital cost without paying such assessments in their behalf from guaranteed loan funds.

(x) It will comply with the other provisions of the Act and with other applicable laws.

(9) In the case of an application submitted by a State-assisted public entity, certifications by the State that:

(i) It agrees to make the pledge of grants required under § 570.705(b)(2).

(ii) It possesses the legal authority to make such pledge.

(iii) At least 70 percent of the aggregate use of CDBG grant funds received by the State, guaranteed loan funds, and program income during the one, two, or three consecutive years specified by the State for its CDBG program will be for activities that benefit low and moderate income persons.

(iv) It agrees to assume the responsibilities described in § 570.710.
