
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 570 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
###### Subpart M - Loan Guarantees
####### § 570.704 Application requirements.
######## HUD review and approval of applications.

(c)(1) HUD will normally accept the certifications submitted with the application. HUD may, however, consider relevant information which challenges the certifications and require additional information or assurances from the public entity or State as warranted by such information.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) HUD may disapprove an application, or may approve loan guarantee assistance for an amount less than requested, for any of the following reasons:

(i) HUD determines that the guarantee constitutes an unacceptable financial risk. Factors that will be considered in assessing financial risk shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(A) The length of the proposed repayment period;

(B) The ratio of expected annual debt service requirements to expected annual grant amount;

(C) The likelihood that the public entity or State will continue to receive grant assistance under this part during the proposed repayment period;

(D) The public entity's or State's ability to furnish adequate security pursuant to § 570.705(b), and

(E) The amount of program income the proposed activities are reasonably estimated to contribute toward repayment of the guaranteed loan.

(ii) The requested loan amount exceeds any of the limitations specified under § 570.705(a).

(iii) Funds are not available in the amount requested.

(iv) The performance of the public entity, its designated public agency or State under this part is unacceptable.

(v) Activities to be undertaken with the guaranteed loan funds are not eligible under § 570.703.

(vi) Activities to be undertaken with the guaranteed loan funds do not meet the criteria in § 570.208 for compliance with one of the national objectives of the Act.

(4) HUD will notify the public entity or State in writing that the loan guarantee request has either been approved, reduced, or disapproved. If the request is reduced or disapproved, the public entity or State shall be informed of the specific reasons for reduction or disapproval. If the request is reduced or disapproved, the public entity shall be informed of the specific reasons for reduction or disapproval. If the request is approved, HUD shall issue an offer of commitment to guarantee debt obligations of the borrower identified in the application subject to compliance with this part, including the requirements under § 570.705(b), (d), (g) and (h) for securing and issuing debt obligations, the conditions for release of funds described in paragraph (d) of this section, and such other conditions as HUD may specify in the commitment documents in a particular case.
