
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
#### Subpart D - Enforcement
##### ยง 8.56 Conduct of investigations.
###### Complaint processing procedures.

(e)After acknowledging receipt of a complaint, the responsible civil rights official will immediately initiate complaint processing procedures.

(1) Preliminary investigation.

(i) Within twenty (20) calendar days of acknowledgement of the complaint, the responsible civil rights official will review the complaint for acceptance, rejection, or referral to the appropriate Federal agency.

(ii) If the complaint is accepted, the responsible civil rights official will notify the complainant and the award official. The responsible civil righs official will also notify the applicant or recipient complained against of the allegations and give the applicant or recipient an opportunity to make a written submission responding to, rebutting, or denying the allegations raised in the complaint.

(iii) The party complained against may send the responsible civil rights official a response to the notice of complaint within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving it. With leave of the responsible civil rights official, an answer may be amended at any time. The responsible civil rights official will permit answers to be amended for good cause shown.

(2) Informal resolution. In accordance with paragraph (j) of this section, the responsible civil rights official shall attempt to resolve complaints informally whenever possible.
