
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
#### Subpart D - Enforcement
##### ยง 8.56 Conduct of investigations.
###### Right to review of the letter of findings.

(h)(1) A complainant or recipient may request that a complete review be made of the letter of findings within 30 days of receipt, by mailing or delivering to the reviewing civil rights official, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Washington, DC 20410, a written statement of the reasons why the letter of findings should be modified in light of supplementary information.

(2) The reviewing civil rights official shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the request for review to the other party, if any. Such other party shall have 20 days to respond to the request for review.

(3) The reviewing civil rights official shall either sustain or modify the letter of findings within 60 days of the request for review. The reviewing civil rights official's decision shall constitute the formal determination.

(4) If neither party requests that the letter of findings be reviewed, the responsible civil rights official shall, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the expiration of the time period in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, send a formal written determination of compliance or noncompliance to the recipient and copies to the award official.
