
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 573 - LOAN GUARANTEE RECOVERY FUND
###### ยง 573.8 Environmental procedures and standards.
####### Environmental procedures.

(a)Before any lender's submission requesting a loan guarantee for the acquisition, rehabilitation, or construction of real property can be selected for a loan guarantee, HUD shall determine whether any environmental thresholds are exceeded in accordance with 24 CFR part 50, which implements the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the related Federal environmental laws and authorities listed under 24 CFR 50.4. To assist in complying with environmental requirements, Borrowers are encouraged to select sites that are free of environmental hazards and are to provide HUD with environmental data needed to make a determination of compliance. For successful Borrowers, the costs for preparing the environmental data are eligible as project costs.

(1) If HUD determines that one or more of the thresholds are exceeded, HUD shall conduct a compliance review of the issue and, if appropriate, establish mitigating measures that the applicant shall carry out for the property.

(2) The lender's submissions under ยง 573.6 shall provide HUD with:

(i) Documentation for environmental threshold review; and

(ii) Any previously issued environmental reviews prepared by local, State, or other Federal agencies for the proposed property.

(3) In providing the above information, the Borrower is encouraged to contact the local community development agency to obtain any previously issued environmental reviews for the proposed property as well as for other relevant information that can be used in the applicant documentation for the environmental threshold review.

(4) HUD reserves the right to disqualify any request where one or more environmental thresholds are exceeded if HUD determines that the compliance review cannot be satisfactorily completed.

(5) If Guaranteed Loan Funds are requested for acquisition, rehabilitation, or construction, Borrowers and Financial Institutions are prohibited from committing or expending State, local, or other funds to undertake property acquisition, rehabilitation or construction under this part until HUD issues a letter of commitment notifying the lender of HUD approval of the loan guarantee.
