
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
#### Subpart D - Enforcement
##### ยง 8.58 Hearings.
###### Opportunity for hearing.

(a)Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 8.57(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action. The notice shall:

(1) Fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of the notice for the applicant or recipient to request the administrative law judge to schedule a hearing, or

(2) Advise the applicant or recipient that the matter has been scheduled for hearing at a stated time and place. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set is a waiver of the right to a hearing under ยง 8.57(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of available information.
