
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 576 - EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANTS PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Program Components and Eligible Activities
####### ยง 576.100 General provisions and expenditure limits.

(a) ESG funds may be used for five program components: street outreach, emergency shelter, homelessness prevention, rapid re-housing assistance, and HMIS; as well as administrative activities. The five program components and the eligible activities that may be funded under each are set forth in ยง 576.101 through ยง 576.107. Eligible administrative activities are set forth in ยง 576.108.

(b) The total amount of the recipient's fiscal year grant that may be used for street outreach and emergency shelter activities cannot exceed the greater of:

(1) 60 percent of the recipient's fiscal year grant; or

(2) The amount of Fiscal Year 2010 grant funds committed for homeless assistance activities.

(c) The total amount of ESG funds that may be used for administrative activities cannot exceed 7.5 percent of the recipient's fiscal year grant.

(d) Subject to the cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and other requirements in this part, employee compensation and other overhead costs directly related to carrying out street outreach, emergency shelter, homelessness prevention, rapid re-housing, and HMIS are eligible costs of those program components. These costs are not subject to the expenditure limit in paragraph (c) of this section.
