
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 576 - EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANTS PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Award and Use of Funds
####### ยง 576.201 Matching requirement.

(a) The recipient must make matching contributions to supplement the recipient's ESG program in an amount that equals the recipient's fiscal year grant for ESG. This amount may include contributions to any project under the recipient's ESG program, including any subrecipient's ESG project, if the requirements in this section are met. The first $100,000 of a State's fiscal year grant is not required to be matched, but the benefit of this exception must pass to the state's subrecipients that are least capable of providing matching contributions. The match requirements under this section do not apply if the recipient is a territory.

(b) To be recognized as match for ESG, each contribution must meet the requirements under 2 CFR 200.306, except that:

(1) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.306(b)(4), matching contributions are not subject to the expenditure limits in ยง 576.100; and

(2) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.306(b)(5), the recipient may use funds from another Federal program as match for ESG, unless doing so would violate a specific statutory prohibition or the recipient or subrecipient counts ESG funds as match for that program.

(c) The recipient may count as match the value specified in 2 CFR 200.306(d) for any building the recipient or subrecipient donates for long-term use in the recipient's ESG program, provided that depreciation on the building is not counted as match or charged to any Federal award. If a third party donates a building to the recipient or subrecipient, the recipient may count as match either depreciation of the building and fair rental charges for the land for each year the building is used for the recipient's ESG program or, if the building is donated for long-term use in the recipient's ESG program, the fair market value of the capital assets, as specified in 2 CFR 200.306(h)(2), (i), and (j). To qualify as a donation for long-term use, the donation must be evidenced by a recorded deed or use restriction that is effective for at least 10 years after the donation date. If the donated building is renovated with ESG funds, the minimum period of use under ยง 576.102(c) may increase the period for which the building must be used in the recipient's ESG program.
