
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 576 - EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANTS PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Program Requirements
####### ยง 576.400 Area-wide systems coordination requirements.
######## Written standards for providing ESG assistance.

(e)(1) If the recipient is a metropolitan city, urban county, or territory, the recipient must have written standards for providing Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) assistance and must consistently apply those standards for all program participants. The recipient must describe these standards in its consolidated plan.

(2) If the recipient is a state:

(i) The recipient must establish and consistently apply, or require that its subrecipients establish and consistently apply, written standards for providing ESG assistance. If the written standards are established by the subrecipients, the recipient may require these written standards to be:

(A) Established for each area covered by a Continuum of Care or area over which the services are coordinated and followed by each subrecipient providing assistance in that area; or

(B) Established by each subrecipient and applied consistently within the subrecipient's program.

(ii) Written standards developed by the state must be included in the state's Consolidated Plan. If the written standards are developed by its subrecipients, the recipient must describe its requirements for the establishment and implementation of these standards in the state's Consolidated Plan.

(3) At a minimum these written standards must include:

(i) Standard policies and procedures for evaluating individuals' and families' eligibility for assistance under Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG);

(ii) Standards for targeting and providing essential services related to street outreach;
