
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 576 - EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANTS PROGRAM
###### Subpart F - Grant Administration
####### ยง 576.501 Enforcement.
######## Remedial actions and sanctions.

(b)Remedial actions and sanctions for a failure to meet an ESG program requirement will be designed to prevent a continuation of the deficiency; mitigate, to the extent possible, its adverse effects or consequences; and prevent its recurrence.

(1) HUD may instruct the recipient to submit and comply with proposals for action to correct, mitigate, and prevent noncompliance with ESG requirements, including:

(i) Preparing and following a schedule of actions for carrying out activities affected by the noncompliance, including schedules, timetables, and milestones necessary to implement the affected activities;

(ii) Establishing and following a management plan that assigns responsibilities for carrying out the remedial actions;

(iii) Canceling or revising activities likely to be affected by the noncompliance, before expending ESG funds for the activities;

(iv) Reprogramming ESG funds that have not yet been expended from affected activities to other eligible activities;

(v) Suspending disbursement of ESG funds for some or all activities;

(vi) Reducing or terminating the remaining grant of a subrecipient and reallocating those funds to other subrecipients; and

(vii) Making matching contributions before or as draws are made from the recipient's ESG grant.

(2) HUD may change the method of payment to a reimbursement basis.

(3) HUD may suspend payments to the extent HUD deems it necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for affected activities.

(4) HUD may remove the recipient from participation in reallocations of funds under subpart D of this part.

(5) HUD may deny matching credit for all or part of the cost of the affected activities and require the recipient to make further matching contributions to make up for the contribution determined to be ineligible.

(6) HUD may require the recipient to reimburse its line of credit in an amount equal to the funds used for the affected activities.

(7) HUD may reduce or terminate the remaining grant of a recipient and reallocate those funds to other recipients in accordance with subpart D of this part.

(8) HUD may condition a future grant.

(9) HUD may take other remedies that are legally available.
