
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 578 - CONTINUUM OF CARE PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Program Components and Eligible Costs
####### § 578.37 Program components and uses of assistance.
######## Rapid rehousing.

(ii)Continuum of Care funds may provide supportive services, as set forth in § 578.53, and/or short-term (up to 3 months) and/or medium-term (for 3 to 24 months) tenant-based rental assistance, as set forth in § 578.51(c), as necessary to help a homeless individual or family, with or without disabilities, move as quickly as possible into permanent housing and achieve stability in that housing. When providing short-term and/or medium-term rental assistance to program participants, the rental assistance is subject to § 578.51(a)(1), but not § 578.51(a)(1)(i) and (ii); (a)(2); (c) and (f) through (i); and (l)(1). These projects:

(A) Must follow the written policies and procedures established by the Continuum of Care for determining and prioritizing which eligible families and individuals will receive rapid rehousing assistance, as well as the amount or percentage of rent that each program participant must pay.

(B) May set a maximum amount or percentage of rental assistance that a program participant may receive, a maximum number of months that a program participant may receive rental assistance, and/or a maximum number of times that a program participant may receive rental assistance. The recipient or subrecipient may also require program participants to share in the costs of rent. For the purposes of calculating rent for rapid rehousing, the rent shall equal the sum of the total monthly rent for the unit and, if the tenant pays separately for utilities, the monthly allowance for utilities (excluding telephone) established by the public housing authority for the area in which the housing is located.

(C) Limit rental assistance to no more than 24 months to a household.

(D) May provide supportive services for no longer than 6 months after rental assistance stops.
