
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
### PART 9 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
#### ยง 9.150 Program accessibility: existing facilities.
##### Transition plan.

(d)In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, within six months of July 18, 1994, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with disabilities or organizations representing individuals with disabilities, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum-

(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with disabilities;

(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;

(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and

(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.

(e) The requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall apply to the Property Disposition Programs. However, this section does not require HUD to make alterations to existing facilities that are part of the Property Disposition Programs unless such alterations are necessary to meet the needs of a current or prospective tenant during the time when HUD expects to retain legal possession of the facilities, and there is no alternative method to meet the needs of that current or prospective tenant. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require alterations to make facilities accessible to persons with disabilities who are expected to occupy the facilities only after HUD relinquishes legal possession.
