
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 578 - CONTINUUM OF CARE PROGRAM
###### Subpart G - Grant Administration
####### ยง 578.107 Sanctions.
######## Remedial actions and sanctions.

(b)Remedial actions and sanctions for a failure to meet a program requirement will be designed to prevent a continuation of the deficiency; to mitigate, to the extent possible, its adverse effects or consequences; and to prevent its recurrence.

(1) HUD may instruct the recipient to submit and comply with proposals for action to correct, mitigate, and prevent noncompliance with program requirements, including:

(i) Preparing and following a schedule of actions for carrying out activities and projects affected by the noncompliance, including schedules, timetables, and milestones necessary to implement the affected activities and projects;

(ii) Establishing and following a management plan that assigns responsibilities for carrying out the remedial actions;

(iii) Canceling or revising activities or projects likely to be affected by the noncompliance, before expending grant funds for them;

(iv) Reprogramming grant funds that have not yet been expended from affected activities or projects to other eligible activities or projects;

(v) Suspending disbursement of grant funds for some or all activities or projects;

(vi) Reducing or terminating the remaining grant of a subrecipient and either reallocating those funds to other subrecipients or returning funds to HUD; and

(vii) Making matching contributions before or as draws are made from the recipient's grant.

(2) HUD may change the method of payment to a reimbursement basis.

(3) HUD may suspend payments to the extent HUD determines necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for affected activities or projects.

(4) HUD may continue the grant with a substitute recipient of HUD's choosing.

(5) HUD may deny matching credit for all or part of the cost of the affected activities and require the recipient to make further matching contributions to make up for the contribution determined to be ineligible.

(6) HUD may require the recipient to reimburse the recipient's line of credit in an amount equal to the funds used for the affected activities.

(7) HUD may reduce or terminate the remaining grant of a recipient.

(8) HUD may condition a future grant.

(9) HUD may take other remedies that are legally available.
