
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 581 - USE OF FEDERAL REAL PROPERTY TO ASSIST THE HOMELESS
###### ยง 581.4 Suitability determination.
####### Procedures for appealing unsuitability determinations.

(f)(1) To request review of a determination of unsuitability, a representative of the homeless must contact HUD within 20 days of publication of notice in thethat a property is unsuitable. Requests may be submitted to HUD in writing or by calling 1-800-927-7588 (Toll Free). Written requests must be received no later than 20 days after notice of unsuitability is published in the

(2) Requests for review of a determination of unsuitability may be made only by representatives of the homeless, as defined in ยง 581.1.

(3) The request for review must specify the grounds on which it is based, i.e., that HUD has improperly applied the criteria or that HUD has relied on incorrect or incomplete information in making the determination (e.g., that property is in a floodplain but not in a floodway).

(4) Upon receipt of a request to review a determination of unsuitability, HUD will notify the landholding agency that such a request has been made, request that the agency respond with any information pertinent to the review, and advise the agency that it should refrain from initiating disposal procedures until HUD has completed its reconsideration regarding unsuitability.

(i) HUD will act on all requests for review within 30 days of receipt of the landholding agency's response and will notify the representative of the homeless and the landholding agency in writing of its decision.

(ii) If a property is determined suitable as a result of the review, HUD will request the landholding agency's determination of availability pursuant to ยง 581.7(a), upon receipt of which HUD will promptly publish the determination in theIf the determination of unsuitability stands, HUD will inform the representative of the homeless of its decision.
