
# Title 24 - Housing and Urban Development
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
### Chapter V - Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
#### Subchapter C - Community Facilities
##### PART 582 - SHELTER PLUS CARE
###### Subpart B - Assistance Provided
####### ยง 582.105 Rental assistance amounts and payments.
######## Payment of grant.

(c)(1) The grant amount will be reserved for rental assistance over the grant period. An applicant's grant request is an estimate of the amount needed for rental assistance. Recipients will make draws from the reserved amount to pay the actual costs of rental assistance for program participants. For TRA, on demonstration of need, up to 25 percent of the total rental assistance awarded may be spent in any one of the five years, or a higher percentage if approved by HUD, where the applicant provides evidence satisfactory to HUD that it is financially committed to providing the housing assistance described in the application for the full five-year period.

(2) A recipient must serve at least as many participants as shown in its application. Where the grant amount reserved for rental assistance over the grant period exceeds the amount that will be needed to pay the actual costs of rental assistance, due to such factor as contract rents being lower than FMRs and participants are being able to pay a portion of the rent, recipients may use the remaining funds for the costs of administering the housing assistance, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, for damage to property, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, for covering the costs of rent increases, or for serving a great number of participants.
