
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter A - The Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service
#### PART 3 - BOARD OF GOVERNORS (ARTICLE III)
##### ยง 3.3 Matters reserved for decision by the Board.

The following matters are reserved for decision by the Board of Governors:

(a) Adoption of, and amendments to, the bylaws of the Board.

(b) Approval of the annual Postal Service Integrated Financial Plan, which shall include the Financing Plan, the Operating Plan, and the Capital Plan.

(c) Approval of the annual financial statements of the Postal Service following receipt of the annual report of the Postal Service's independent, certified public accounting firm.

(d) Approval of any use of the authority of the Postal Service to borrow money under 39 U.S.C. 2005 and 39 U.S.C. 2011, except for short-term borrowings, having maturities of one year or less, assumed in the normal course of business.

(e) Approval of the terms and conditions of each series of obligations issued by the Postal Service under 39 U.S.C. 2005 and 39 U.S.C. 2011, including the time and manner of sale and the underwriting arrangements, except for short-term borrowings, having maturities of one year or less, assumed in the normal course of business.

(f) Approval of any use of the authority of the Postal Service to require the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase Postal Service obligations under 39 U.S.C. 2006(b), or to request the Secretary of the Treasury to pledge the full faith and credit of the Government of the United States for the payment of principal and interest on Postal Service obligations under 39 U.S.C. 2006(c).

(g) Authorization of the Postal Service to request that the Postal Regulatory Commission submit an advisory opinion on a proposed change in the nature of postal services which will generally affect service on a nationwide or substantially nationwide basis, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3661.

(h) Determination of the number of officers, described in 39 U.S.C. 204 as Assistant Postmasters General, whether so denominated or not, as the Board authorizes by resolution.

(i) Compensation and benefits of officers the Postal Service whose positions are included in Level II of the Postal Career Executive Service.

(j) Approval of official statements adopting major policy positions or departing from established major policy positions, and of official positions on legislative proposals having a major impact on the Postal Service.

(k) Approval of all major policy positions taken with the Department of Justice on petitioning the Supreme Court of the United States for writs of certiorari.

(l) Approval and transmittal to the President and the Congress of the Annual Report to Congress, which shall include the annual report of the Postmaster General under 39 U.S.C. 2402, the comprehensive statement of the Postal Service under 39 U.S.C. 2401(e), the Postal Service's annual performance plan under 39 U.S.C. 2803, and the Postal Service's report on program performance under 39 U.S.C. 2804.

(m) Approval and transmittal to the President and the Congress of the Postal Service's strategic plan, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 2802.

(n) All other matters that the Board may consider appropriate to reserve for its decision by resolution adopted by the Board, pursuant to ยง 3.5.
