
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter H - Procurement System for the U.S. Postal Service: Intellectual Property Rights Other Than Patents
#### PART 601 - PURCHASING OF PROPERTY AND SERVICES
##### ยง 601.113 Suspension, debarment, and ineligibility.
###### Treatment of suppliers included in the SAM Exclusions database.

(d)(1) Contracting officers will review the SAM Exclusions database before making a contract award.

(2) Suppliers included in the SAM Exclusions database are excluded from receiving contracts and subcontracts, and contracting officers may not solicit proposals or quotations from, award contracts to, or, when a contract provides for such consent, consent to subcontracts with such suppliers, unless the vice president, Supply Management, or his or her designee, after consultation with the General Counsel, has approved such action.

(3) Suppliers included in the SAM Exclusions database may not provide goods or services to other persons or entities for resale, in whole or part, to the Postal Service and such other persons or entities are obligated to review the consolidated GSA list in order to exclude suppliers suspended or debarred by the Postal Service from performing any part of a Postal Service contract.

(4) The suspension, debarment, or ineligibility of a supplier does not, of itself, affect the rights and obligations of the parties to any valid, pre-existing contract. The Postal Service may terminate for default a contract with a supplier that is suspended, debarred, or determined to be ineligible. Contracting officers may not add new work to any contract with a supplier that is suspended, debarred, or determined to be ineligible by supplemental agreement, by exercise of an option, or otherwise (unless the work is classified as an insignificant or significant minor service change to a mail transportation contract), except with the approval of the vice president, Supply Management, or designee after consultation with the General Counsel.
