
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter H - Procurement System for the U.S. Postal Service: Intellectual Property Rights Other Than Patents
#### PART 602 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OTHER THAN PATENTS
##### ยง 602.3 Requests for use.

(a) Inquiries concerning licenses to use Postal Service trademarks or service marks, copyright materials and intellectual property other than patents and technical data rights in Postal Service contracts must be sent to: Office of Licensing, Philatelic and Retail Services Department, US Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., Washington, DC 20260-6700.

(b) Requests for the use of intellectual property should be submitted on the form provided by the Office of Licensing to the licensing advisor designated by that Office. Each request is considered in a timely fashion in accordance with the policy established in this section. Requests favorably considered are forwarded to the Office of Licensing for approval.

(c) Approved requests contemplating a permissive (no fee) use of the intellectual property are evidenced by a letter of permission furnished to the requester.

(d) Approved requests contemplating a contractual (fee) use of the intellectual property are forwarded to the Office of Licensing for the negotiation of a satisfactory license agreement.

(e) Each license agreement is subject to legal review.

(f) Requesters are promptly advised of unapproved requests.

A transmittal letter effecting the above changes to the Domestic Mail Manual will be published and transmitted automatically to subscribers. Notice of issuance of the transmittal letter will be published in theas provided by 39 CFR 111.3.
