
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter A - The Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service
#### PART 3 - BOARD OF GOVERNORS (ARTICLE III)
##### ยง 3.4 Matters reserved for decision by the Governors.

The following matters are reserved for decision by the Governors:

(a) Appointment, pay, term of service, and removal of the Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 202(c).

(b) Appointment, term of service, and removal of the Deputy Postmaster General (by the Governors and the Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 202(d)); pay of the Deputy Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 202(d).

(c) Election of the Chairman, 39 U.S.C. 202(a)(1), and Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors.

(d) Establishment of rates and classes of competitive products of both general and not of general applicability under 39 U.S.C. 3632 in accordance with the procedures set out in sections 3.9 and 3.10 of these bylaws.

(e) Authorization of the Postal Service to adjust the rates and fees for market dominant products and to seek the Postal Regulatory Commission's review of the adjusted rates or fees for such products under 39 U.S.C. 3622.

(f) Authorization of the Postal Service to request that the Postal Regulatory Commission, under 39 U.S.C. 3642, change the lists of market dominant and competitive products by adding a product, removing a product, or transferring a product.

(g) Authorization of the Postal Service to file a notice with the Postal Regulatory Commission of substantive modifications to the product descriptions in the Mail Classification Schedule.

(h) Authorization of the Postal Service to file a request with the Postal Regulatory Commission for adjustment of rates on an expedited basis due to extraordinary or exceptional circumstances, as provided in 39 U.S.C. 3622(d)(1)(E).

(i) Appointment and removal (in conjunction with Commissioners of the Postal Regulatory Commission) of the Inspector General under 39 U.S.C. 202(e).

(j) Exercise of the authority of the Governors under 5 U.S.C. App. 8G(f)(3)(A).

(k) Compensation and benefits, term of service, and appointment/removal of the Secretary of the Board and other necessary staff, which shall be considered annually in closed session.

(l) Transmittal to the Congress of the semi-annual report of the Inspector General under section 5 of the Inspector General Act.

(m) Establishment of the price of any special postage stamp under 39 U.S.C. 414 and any semi-postal stamp under 39 U.S.C. 416 or any act of Congress.

(n) Selection of an independent, certified public accounting firm to certify the accuracy of Postal Service financial statements as required by 39 U.S.C. 2008(e).

(o) Consideration and potential adjustment of the funding requested in the Postal Regulatory Commission's budget for the succeeding fiscal year as required by 39 U.S.C. 504(d).

(p) Approval of any program established under 39 U.S.C. 3703 to enter into agreements with agencies of state, local or tribal governments to provide property or non-postal services to the public on behalf of such agencies for non-commercial purposes.
