
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter K - Environmental Regulations
#### PART 775 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 775.11 Environmental impact statements.
###### Distribution.

(d)(1) Any completed draft environmental impact statement which is made the subject of a public hearing, must be made available to the public as provided in ยง 775.12, of this chapter at least 15 days in advance of the hearing.

(2) Draft and final environmental impact statements must be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency. Five copies are filed with EPA's headquarters addressed to the Office of Federal Activities (A-104), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460; five copies are also filed with the responsible EPA region. Statements may not be filed with the EPA earlier than they are transmitted to commenting agencies and made available to the public.

(3) Copies of draft and final environmental impact statements must be furnished to:

(i) Any Federal agency which has jurisdiction by law or special expertise with respect to any environmental impact involved.

(ii) Any appropriate Federal, state, or local agency authorized to develop and enforce environmental standards.

(iii) The appropriate review officials identified in the Postal Service regulations and procedures governing intergovernmental review of Postal Service facility project actions, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and, when National Register or eligible properties may be affected, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.

(iv) Any person, organization or agency requesting them.

(4) Copies of final environmental impact statements must be furnished to any person who, or organization or agency which, submitted substantive comments on the draft.
