
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart A - General Policy, Purpose and Definitions
###### ยง 777.13 Definitions.
####### Decent, Safe, and Sanitary Dwelling.

(e)A dwelling which meets local housing and occupancy codes and the following standards, unless they are waived for good cause by the Postal Service. The dwelling must:

(1) Be structurally sound, weathertight, and in good repair.

(2) Contain a safe electrical wiring system adequate for lighting and other electrical devices.

(3) Contain a heating system capable of sustaining a healthful temperature of approximately 70 degrees except in those areas where local climatic conditions do not require such a system.

(4) Be adequate in size with respect to the number of rooms and areas of living space needed to accommodate the displaced persons. There shall be a separate, well-lighted and ventilated bathroom that provides privacy to the user and contains a bathtub or shower stall, sink, and toilet, all in good working order and properly connected to appropriate sources of water and to a sewage drainage system. In the case of a housekeeping unit-as opposed to, for example, a room in a boarding house-there shall be a kitchen area that contains a fully usable sink, properly connected to potable hot and cold water and to a sewage draining system, and adequate space and utility service connections for a stove and a refrigerator.

(5) Contain unobstructed egress to safe, open space at ground level.

(6) For displaced persons who are handicapped, be free of any barriers which would preclude their reasonable ingress, egress, or use of the dwelling.
