
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart A - General Policy, Purpose and Definitions
###### ยง 777.13 Definitions.
####### Displaced Person.

(f)(1) Subject to the additional definitions, limitations and exceptions in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the term "displaced person" is defined as follows. ("Displaced persons" are entitled to receive benefits only as specifically provided for elsewhere in these regulations.)

(i) A person who owns real property, and who is required to move or to move personal property from the real property following Postal Service action to obtain title to, or a leasehold interest in, such real property by the exercise or the threat of the exercise of eminent domain.

(ii) A person who is a tenant and who is required to move or to move his or her personal property from real property:

(A) Following Postal Service action to obtain the tenant's leasehold interest in such real property by the exercise or the threat of the exercise of eminent domain, or,

(B) Where the Postal Service acquires a fee interest in the property (including long-term leases of 50 years or more), as a result of a Postal Service notice of displacement or notice to vacate such real property, provided the tenant was lawfully in possession on the date title to such property transfers to the Postal Service. (The requirement that the tenant occupy such real property on the date title in such real property transfers to the Postal Service may be waived for good cause by the Postal Service.)

(C) Where such real property was used to construct a new building for the express purpose of leasing to the Postal Service under circumstances where such tenant would have been a "displaced person" hereunder had the Postal Service itself acquired the land and required the removal of the tenant to undertake construction of the building for Postal Service ownership.

(iii) Where the Postal Service acquires either a fee interest or a leasehold interest in the property, a person who is a residential tenant and is or will be required to move or to move his or her property from the real property, in order for the Postal Service to accomplish the project for which the property was acquired, provided such tenant occupies such real property on the date title in such real property transfers to the Postal Service or the date the Postal Service leases or contracts to lease such property, and further provided such tenant was lawfully in possession at the time of the initiation of negotiations. (The requirement that the tenant occupy such real property on the date title in such real property transfers to the Postal Service may be waived for good cause by the Postal Service.)

(2) The term "displaced person" covers only persons meeting the requirements in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The term "displaced person" does not cover the following non-exclusive list of examples.

(i) An owner who voluntarily sells his or her real property to the Postal Service, or,

(ii) A tenant who voluntarily transfers his or her leasehold interest to the Postal Service without the exercise or the threat of the exercise of eminent domain, or,

(iii) A tenant who is not lawfully in possession at the times for which lawful possession is specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii)(B) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section. A tenant who was legally required by the lease or otherwise to have moved from the property at the times specified in such paragraphs shall not be considered to be lawfully in possession.

(iv) A person who, at the determination of the Postal Service, is not required to relocate permanently, or,

(v) A person who, after receiving a notice of displacement or notice to vacate by the Postal Service, is notified in writing that he or she will not be displaced. Such later notification shall not be issued if the person has already moved. If such latter notification is issued, the Postal Service shall reimburse the person for any reasonable expenses incurred to satisfy any binding contractual relocation obligations entered into after the effective date of the notice of displacement or the notice to vacate or,

(vi) A person who is required to temporarily vacate the premises in order to permit fumigation, repair, painting, or other maintenance or code of enforcement work or,

(vii) A tenant who is required to move from real property as a result of a notice from the Postal Service to vacate such real property where such notice to vacate is issued five years or more after the date of the acquisition of such real property. A tenant who is given a notice to vacate as a result of failure to comply with the terms of his/her lease with the Postal Service or failure to renew his/her lease under prevailing market conditions is not considered to be a displaced person.

(viii) A mobile home occupant who owns the site on which the mobile home is located and who voluntarily sells the site to the Postal Service, regardless of whether such person owns or rents the mobile home.

(ix) A person whose property is acquired through a "friendly condemnation action" where price is not an issue.
