
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Relocation Assistance
###### ยง 777.23 Moving expenses.
####### Allowable Expenses, Residential Moves.

(b)Allowable moving expenses include:

(1) Transportation of the displaced person and his or her personal property. Transportation costs are limited to the costs of a move up to a distance of 50 miles unless the Postal Service determines that relocation beyond 50 miles is justified.

(2) Packing, crating, unpacking, and uncrating of the personal property.

(3) Disconnecting, dismantling, removing, reassembling, and reinstalling relocated household appliances and other personal property.

(4) Storage of the personal property not to exceed 12 months unless the Postal Service determines that a longer period is necessary.

(5) Reasonable costs for insurance for the replacement value of the personal property being moved or stored.

(6) When determined to be fair and reasonable by the Postal Service the replacement value of property lost, stolen, or damaged in the process of moving (not through the fault or negligence of the displaced person, his or her agent, or employee), but only where insurance covering such loss, theft, or damage is not reasonably available.

(7) Other moving related expenses that are not listed as non-allowable under paragraph (l)(3) of this section and which the Postal Service determines to be reasonable and necessary.
