
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Relocation Assistance
###### ยง 777.23 Moving expenses.
####### Allowable Expenses, Business and Farm Operations.

(d)Allowable expenses include:

(1) The expenses allowed under paragraphs (b) (2), (4), (5) and (6) of this section;

(2) Transportation of personal property. Transportation costs are limited to a distance up to 50 miles unless the Postal Service makes a finding that relocation beyond 50 miles is justified.

(3) Disconnecting, dismantling, removing, reassembling, and reinstalling relocated machinery, equipment, and other personal property, and substitute personal property as described in paragraph (d)(8) of this section. This includes connection to utilities available at the replacement site or building and minor modifications to personal property to adapt it to the replacement site or building. Excluded are expenses for providing utilities to or installing utilities at the replacement site or building and expenses for repair, alteration, improvement or modification of the replacement site or building. This exclusion includes, but is not limited to, any repairs, alterations, improvements, or modifications required by local code to bring the building up to standard.

(4) Any license, permit, or certification fee required of the displaced person by a governmental authority at the replacement location. However, this payment is limited to the pro rata value for the remaining useful life of any existing license, permit, or certification.

(5) Reasonable professional services necessary for planning the move of the personal property. Such professional services must be approved in advance by the Postal Service and shall not exceed the lowest of three acceptable bids.

(6) Relettering signs and replacing stationary on hand at the time of displacement that are made obsolete as a result of the move.

(7) Actual direct loss of tangible personal property incurred as a result of moving or discontinuing the business or farm operation. The payment will consist of the reasonable costs incurred in attempting to sell the item plus the lesser of:

(i) The fair market value of the item for continued use at the displacement site, less the proceeds from its sale. (To be eligible for this payment the claimant must make a good faith effort to sell the personal property, unless the Postal Service determines that such effort is not necessary. When payment for property loss is claimed for goods held for sale, the fair market value must be based on the cost of the goods to the business, not the potential selling price.); or

(ii) The estimated cost of moving the item no more than 50 miles, but with no allowance for storage.

(8) If an item of personal property which is used as part of a business or farm operation is not moved, is promptly replaced with a substitute item that performs a comparable function at the replacement site, the displaced person is entitled to payment of the lesser of:

(i) The cost of the substitute item, including installation costs at the replacement site, less any proceeds from the sale. (To be eligible for payments under paragraph (d)(8) of this section, the claimant must make a good faith effort to sell the personal property, unless the Postal Service determines that such effort is not necessary.)

(ii) The estimated cost of moving and reinstalling the replaced item, based on the lowest acceptable bid or estimate obtained by the Postal Service for eligible moving and related expenses, but with no allowance for storage.

(9) A displaced business or farm operation is entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses, not to exceed $1,000, which the Postal Service determines to be reasonable and which are incurred in searching for a replacement location. These expenses include transportation, meals and lodging away from home, time spent searching (based on reasonable salary or earnings) and fees paid to a real estate agent or broker to locate a replacement site, exclusive of any fees or commissions related to the purchase of such site.

(10) Other moving-related expenses, not listed as non-allowable under paragraph (l)(3) of this section, which the Postal Service determines to be reasonable and necessary.
