
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Relocation Assistance
###### ยง 777.23 Moving expenses.
####### Fixed Payment in Lieu of Moving Expenses, Business Moves.

(e)Any displaced business, other than an outdoor advertising display business, or a non-profit organization, is eligible for a fixed payment in lieu of actual moving and related expenses. This payment must be in an amount equal to the average annual net earnings of the business at that location, as computed under paragraph (i) of this section, but not less than $1,000 nor more than $20,000. For a displaced person to qualify for this payment, the Postal Service must determine that:

(1) The business owns or rents personal property which must be moved in connection with such displacement and for which an expense would be incurred in such move; and, the business vacates or relocates from its displacement site; and

(2) The business cannot be relocated without a substantial loss of its existing patronage (clientele or net earnings). A business is assumed to meet this test unless the Postal Service determines that it will not suffer a substantial loss of its existing patronage; and

(3) The business is not part of a commercial enterprise having more than three other entities which are not being acquired by the Postal Service, and which are under the same ownership and engaged in the same or similar business activities.

(4) The business contributed materially to the income of the displaced person during the 2 taxable years prior to displacement (see paragraph (h) of this section). However, the Postal Service may waive this test for good cause.

(5) The business is not operated at a displacement dwelling solely for the purpose of renting such dwelling to others.
