
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Relocation Assistance
###### ยง 777.23 Moving expenses.
####### Allowable expenses.

(1)Reestablishment expenses must be reasonable and necessary, as determined by the Postal Service. They may include the following:

(i) Repairs or improvements to the replacement real property as required by federal, state, local law, code or ordinance.

(ii) Modifications to the replacement property to accommodate the business operation or make replacement structures suitable for occupancy.

(iii) Construction and installation costs not to exceed $1,500 for exterior signing to advertise the business.

(iv) Installation of security or fire protection devices.

(v) Provision of utilities from right-of-way to improvements on the replacement site.

(vi) Redecoration or replacement of soiled or worn surfaces at the replacement site, such as paint, panelling or carpeting.

(vii) Licenses, fees and permits when not paid as part of the moving expenses.

(viii) Feasibility surveys, soil testing and marketing studies.

(ix) Advertisement of replacement location, not to exceed $1,500

(x) Professional services in connection with the purchase or lease of a replacement site.

(xi) Increased costs of operation during the first two years at the replacement site, not to exceed $5,000, for such items as lease or rental charges, personal or real property taxes, insurance premiums, utility charges including impact fees or one time assessments for anticipated heavy utility usage.

(xii) Other items that the Postal Service considers essential to the reestablishment of the business.
