
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Relocation Assistance
###### ยง 777.24 Replacement housing payments.
####### Increased Mortgage Interest Costs.

(d)The amount to be paid to a displaced 180 day owner occupant for increased mortgage interest costs is the amount, if any, by which the present value of the interest on the mortgage loan(s) on the replacement dwelling plus any other debt service costs exceeds the present value of the interest on the mortgage loan(s) on the displacement dwelling plus purchaser's points and loan origination fees, subject to the following:

(1) The payment must be based only on bona fide mortgages that were a valid lien on the displacement dwelling for at least 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations. All such mortgages on the displacement dwelling must be used to compute the payment.

(2) The payment must be based on the unpaid mortgage balance on the displacement dwelling or the new mortgage amount, whichever is less.

(3) The payment must be based on the remaining term of the mortgage on the displacement dwelling or the actual term of the new mortgage, whichever is shorter.

(4) The new mortgage must be a bona fide mortgage and its interest rate must not exceed the prevailing interest rate currently charged by mortgage lending institutions in the area in which the replacement dwelling is located.

(5) The discount rate used to compute the present value of the increased interest cost must be the prevailing interest rate paid on demand savings deposits by commercial banks in the area in which the replacement dwelling is located.

(6) Purchaser's points and loan origination fees, but not seller's points, are reimbursable to the extent they are not paid as incidental expenses, they do not exceed rates normal to similar real estate transactions in the area, and the Postal Service determines them to be necessary. The computation of such points and fees shall be based on the unpaid mortgage balance on the displacement dwelling, or the new mortgage amount, whichever is less.
