
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter L - Special Regulations
#### PART 777 - RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Relocation Assistance
###### ยง 777.24 Replacement housing payments.
####### Rental Assistance.

(f)The rental assistance benefits, not to exceed $5,250, for 90 day owner occupants and tenants will be computed as follows:

(1) The amount which must be added to 42 times the average monthly rental paid at the displacement dwelling (or, if the displaced person is an owner occupant, the fair market rental value had the displacement dwelling been rented) for the three-month period prior to displacement to provide a total amount equal to the lesser of:

(i) 42 times the reasonable monthly rental of a comparable replacement dwelling; or

(ii) 42 times the actual monthly rental cost of the decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling actually rented and occupied by the displaced person.

(2) If utilities are included in either the replacement dwelling or the displacement dwelling rent, appropriate utilities must be factored into both rentals. If utilities are not included in either monthly rental then the payment will be computed using the base rental rates.

(3) If, in the opinion of the Postal Service, the monthly rental at the displacement dwelling is significantly below the fair market rent of the displacement dwelling, such fair market rent must be used in computing the rental assistance payment.

(4) The payment under this section must be disbursed in a lump-sum amount unless the Postal Service determines on a case-by-case basis, for good cause, that the payment should be made in installments. Where the rental assistance payment exceeds $5,250 under the provisions of Last Resort Housing, (ยง 777.27), installment payments or payments through escrow accounts may be considered.
