
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter D - Organization and Administration
#### PART 222 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
##### ยง 222.2 Authority to administer oaths or function as notaries public.

(a) Authority to approve personnel actions and administer oaths of office for employment. The postmaster general, corporate officers, and their delegatees are authorized to effect appointments, administer oaths of office for employment, and take other personnel actions.

(b) Authority to administer oaths other than for employment. The following are authorized to administer oaths concerning matters other than employment:

(1) Postal inspectors, with regard to any matter coming before them in the performance of their official duties;

(2) Any member of a board who is assigned to conduct hearings or investigations in which sworn testimony, affidavits, or depositions are required, and each officer or employee assigned to conduct such hearings or investigations;

(3) Postmasters, where required in the performance of their official duties.

(c) Authority to function as notaries public. (1) Postmasters in Alaska have the authority to administer oaths and affirmations, take acknowledgments and make and execute certificates thereof, and perform all other functions of a notary public within Alaska when a certification is necessary to meet any Act of Congress or the Legislature of Alaska. No fees may be charged for notarial services.

(2) An officer or employee who is a notary public shall not charge or receive compensation for notarial services for another officer or employee regarding Government business; nor for notarial services for any person during the hours of the notary's services to the Government, including the lunch period.
