
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter A - The Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service
#### PART 3 - BOARD OF GOVERNORS (ARTICLE III)
##### ยง 3.7 Information furnished to Board - program review.

(a) To enable the Board to review the Postal Service operating program, postal management shall furnish the Board information on all aspects of the Postal Service budget plan, including:

(1) Five-year and ten-year plans, annual operating and investment plans, and significant departures from estimates upon which the plans were based;

(2) Productivity measurements (reflecting workload and resource utilization);

(3) The need for rate adjustments and the outcome of significant matters before the Postal Regulatory Commission and related litigation; and

(4) Debt financing needs, including a review of all borrowings of the Postal Service from the U.S. Treasury and private sources.

(b) To enable the Board to review the effectiveness of the Postal Service's equal employment opportunity program, performance data relating to this program shall be furnished to the Board at least annually. These data shall be categorized in such manner as the Board, from time to time, specifies.

(c) Postal management shall also regularly furnish the Board information regarding major programs for improving postal service or reducing the cost of postal operations.

(d) Postal management shall annually provide the Board with a summary of the Annual Compliance Report filed with the Postal Regulatory Commission, which includes data on product costs.

(e) Management shall furnish to the Board: Information regarding any significant, new program, policy, major modification or initiative; any plan to offer a significant, new or unique product or system implementation; or any significant, new project not related directly to the core business function of the Postal Service. This information shall be provided to the Board in advance of entering into any agreement in furtherance of such project. For the purposes of this paragraph (e), "significant" means a project anticipated to have a notable or conspicuous impact on corporate visibility or the operating budget (including increases in expense amounts) or the capital investment budget. The notification requirement of this paragraph governs applicable projects regardless of the level of expenditure or potential liability involved.

(f) At the reasonable request of the Board, Postal management shall furnish to the Board such other information as the Board deems necessary.
