
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter N - Procedures
#### PART 955 - RULES OF PRACTICE BEFORE THE POSTAL SERVICE BOARD OF CONTRACT APPEALS
##### § 955.13 Optional Small Claims (Expedited) and Accelerated Procedures.
###### The Small Claims (Expedited) Procedure.

(a)(1) The Expedited Procedure is available solely at the election of the appellant. Such election requires decision of the appeal, whenever possible, within 120 days after the Board receives written notice of the appellant's election to utilize this procedure.

(2) The appellant may elect this procedure when:

(i) There is a monetary amount in dispute and that amount is $50,000 or less, or

(ii) There is a monetary amount in dispute and that amount is $150,000 or less and the appellant is a small business concern (as that term is defined in the Small Business Act and regulations promulgated under the Act).

(3) In cases proceeding under the Expedited Procedure, the respondent shall file with the Board a copy of the contract, the contracting officer's final decision, and the appellant's claim letter or letters, if any, within ten days from the respondent's first receipt from either the appellant or the Board of a copy of the appellant's notice of election of the Expedited Procedure. If either party requests an oral hearing in accordance with § 955.9, the Board shall promptly schedule such a hearing for a mutually convenient time consistent with administrative due process and the 120-day limit for a decision, at a place determined under § 955.18. If a hearing is not requested by either party, the appeal shall be deemed to have been submitted under § 955.12 without a hearing.

(4) Promptly after receipt of the appellant's election of the Expedited Procedure, the Board shall establish a schedule of proceedings that will allow for the timely resolution of the appeal. Pleadings, discovery, and other prehearing activities may be restricted or eliminated at the Board's discretion as necessary to enable the Board to decide the appeal within 120 days after the Board has received the appellant's notice of election of the Expedited Procedure. In so doing, the Board may reserve whatever time it considers necessary for preparation of the decision.

(5) Written decisions by the Board in cases processed under the Expedited Procedure will be short and contain only summary findings of fact and conclusions. Decisions will be rendered for the Board by a single Judge. If there has been a hearing, the Judge presiding at the hearing may, in his or her discretion, at the conclusion of the hearing and after entertaining such oral arguments as he or she deems appropriate, render on the record oral summary findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a decision of the appeal. Whenever such an oral decision is rendered, the Board will subsequently furnish the parties a printed copy of such oral decision for the record and payment purposes and for the establishment of the commencement date of the period for filing a motion for reconsideration under § 955.30.

(6) Decisions of the Board under the Expedited Procedure will not be published, will have no value as precedents, and in the absence of fraud, cannot be appealed.
