
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter N - Procedures
#### PART 962 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PROCEEDINGS RELATIVE TO THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
##### ยง 962.22 Form and filing of documents.
###### https://uspsjoe.justware.com/justiceweb.

(a) All pleadings and documents required under this part must be filed using the Judicial Officer electronic filing system unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. The Judicial Officer electronic filing system Web site is accessible 24 hours a day atEvery pleading filed in a proceeding under this part must:

(1) Contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the docket number (after assignment by the Recorder), and a designation of the document (e.g., "Motion to Quash Subpoena");

(2) Contain the name, address, and telephone number of the party or other person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or the name, address and telephone number of the representative who prepared such paper; and

(3) Be signed by the party or other person submitting the document, or by such party's or person's representative.

(b) Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays.

(c) Pleadings or document transmittals to, or communications with, the Postal Service, other than to the Recorder under paragraph (b) of this section, shall be made through the Reviewing Official or designated Postal Service attorney. If a notice of appearance by a representative is filed on behalf of a Respondent, pleadings or document transmittals to, or communications with, the Respondent shall be made through his representative.
