
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter A - The Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service
#### PART 3 - BOARD OF GOVERNORS (ARTICLE III)
##### ยง 3.10 Establishment of rates and classes of competitive products not of general applicability.

This section relates to changes in rates and classes of competitive products not of general applicability.

(a) Prior to establishing rates or classes of competitive products not of general applicability, postal management shall furnish to the Governors the following:

(1) The proposed changes in rates or ranges of rates, along with the proposed changes in classes; and

(2) Management analysis demonstrating compliance with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633(a).

(b) Pursuant to ยง 6.6(f) of these bylaws, the Governors shall issue a written decision on any changes in rates or classes of competitive products not of general applicability, which shall include a statement as to when the decision becomes effective.

(c) The Secretary shall certify that the vote of the Governors met the condition set forth in ยง 6.6(f) of these bylaws.

(d) The Secretary shall cause any decision of the Governors under this section, along with the record of any proceedings of the Governors, and any supporting documentation required by 39 CFR Part 3015, to be filed with the Postal Regulatory Commission. The record of the proceedings of the Governors consists of the certification by the Secretary of the vote of the Governors.

(e) Postal management is authorized to conclude agreements with customers concerning any rates or classes of competitive products not of general applicability, provided that any such rates are within the range, or such classes are within the scope, of a decision of the Governors then in effect.
