
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter A - The Commission
#### PART 3000 - THE COMMISSION AND ITS OFFICES
##### ยง 3000.111 Office of Secretary and Administration.

(a) The incumbent head of the office utilizes the title of "Secretary".

(b) The Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for the Commission's budget and accounting. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration develops, implements, and administers the Commission's financial management system and accounting activities including those relating to the budget and the payroll; is responsible for the Commission's strategic planning; and serves as the point of contact for all Commission contracts and audits.

(c) The Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for the Commission's human resources and personnel. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for Commission employee hiring, training, travel, personnel policy and compliance, and human capital planning. In addition, the Office of Secretary and Administration serves as an Equal Employment Opportunity Officer for the Commission and manages the Commission's continuity of operations planning.

(d) The Office of Secretary and Administration manages the Commission's records, including the Commission's seal, administrative policies, orders, reports, and official correspondence. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration manages the Commission's dockets and docket room, website, reference materials, and inter-agency reporting. All orders and other actions of the Commission shall be authenticated or signed by the Secretary or any such other person as may be authorized by the Commission.

(e) The Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for the Commission's facilities and infrastructure. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration manages facility security; provides information technology and other support services essential to the efficient and effective conduct of operations; acquires and assigns office space; and manages procurement and supply.
