
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter B - Seeking Information from the Commission
#### PART 3006 - PUBLIC RECORDS AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### ยง 3006.10 Public records.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 3006.11 and in ยง 3011.200 of this chapter, the public records of the Commission include all submissions and filings as follows:

(1) Requests of the Postal Service for decisions or advisory opinions, notices, public reports, complaints (both formal and informal), and other papers seeking Commission action;

(2) Financial, statistical and other reports to the Commission, and other filings and submittals to the Commission in compliance with the requirements of any statute, executive order, or Commission rule, regulation or order;

(3) All answers, replies, responses, objections, protests, motions, stipulations, exceptions, other pleadings, notices, depositions, certificates, proofs of service, transcripts and briefs in any matter or proceeding;

(4) Exhibits, attachments and appendices to, amendments and corrections of, supplements to, or transmittals or withdrawals of any of the foregoing; and

(5) Commission correspondence related to the foregoing.

(b) All other parts of the formal record in any matter or proceeding before the Commission and correspondence related thereto, including:

(1) Notices or Commission orders initiating the matter or proceeding;

(2) Designation of the presiding officer;

(3) Transcript of hearings;

(4) Offers of proof, motions and stipulations made during a hearing;

(5) Exhibits received in evidence during a hearing;

(6) Certifications to the Commission; and

(7) Anything else upon which action of a presiding officer or the Commission may be based.

(c) Proposed testimony or exhibits filed with the Commission but not yet offered or received in evidence.

(d) Presiding officer actions and all presiding officer correspondence and memoranda to or from anyone other than staff assigned to provide assistance to the presiding officer.

(e) Commission decisions, reports, opinions, orders, notices, findings, determinations and other actions in any matter or proceeding and all Commission minutes which have been approved.

(f) Commission correspondence relating to any data or information request directed to the Postal Service.

(g) Commission correspondence with respect to the furnishing of data, information, comments, or recommendations to or by another branch, department, or agency of the Government where furnished to satisfy a specific requirement of a statute or where made public by that branch, department, or agency.

(h) Commission correspondence and reports on legislative matters under consideration by the Office of Management and Budget or Congress, but only if and after authorized for release or publication by that office, the Commission, or the Member of Congress involved.

(i) Commission correspondence on the interpretation or applicability of any statute, rule, regulation, decision, advisory opinion, or public report issued by the Commission and letters of opinion on that subject signed by the General Counsel and sent to persons other than the Commission, a Commissioner, or any of the staff.

(j) Copies of all filings by the Commission, and all orders, judgments, decrees, and mandates directed to the Commission in court proceedings involving Commission action and all correspondence with the courts, or clerks of court.

(k) The Commission's administrative and operating manuals as issued.
