
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter B - Seeking Information from the Commission
#### PART 3007 - COMMISSION MEETINGS
##### ยง 3007.100 Public access to Commission meetings.
###### Certification of closed meetings; transcripts, electronic recordings, and minutes.

(g)(1) Before any meeting to be closed pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section, the General Counsel of the Commission, or in the General Counsel's absence, the senior advisory staff attorney available, should publicly certify that, in the individual's opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Commission. The Commission shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (d)(8) or (10) of this section, the Commission shall maintain either such a transcript or recording, or a set of minutes. Such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote (reflecting the vote of each Commissioner on the question). All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in such minutes.

(2) The Commission shall make promptly available to the public, in a place easily accessible to the public, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes (as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section) of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at the meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the Commission determines by a majority vote of all its members contains information which may be withheld under paragraph (d) of this section, and is not required by the public interest to be made available. Copies of such transcript, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription. The Commission shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
