
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter B - Seeking Information from the Commission
#### PART 3007 - COMMISSION MEETINGS
##### ยง 3007.100 Public access to Commission meetings.
###### Requests to open or close Commission meetings.

(h)(1)(i) Any person may request in writing that the Commission open to public observation discussion of a matter which it has earlier decided to close.

(ii) Such requests shall be captioned "Request to open ____ (date) Commission meeting on item ____ (number or description)." The request shall state the reason(s) therefor, the name and address of the person making the request and, if desired, a telephone number.

(iii) Ten copies of such requests must be received by the Office of Secretary and Administration no later than three working days after the issuance of the notice of meeting to which the request pertains. Requests received after that time will be returned to the requester with a statement that the request was untimely received and that copies of any nonexempt portions of the transcript or minutes for the meeting in question will ordinarily be available in the Office of Secretary and Administration ten working days after the meeting.

(2)(i) Any person whose interests may be directly affected may request in writing that the Commission close to public observation discussion of a matter which it has earlier decided to open as provided for in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(ii) Such requests shall be captioned "Request to Close ____ (date) Commission meeting on item ____ (number or description)," shall state the reason(s) therefor, the name and address of the person making the request and, if desired, a telephone number.

(iii) Ten copies of such requests should be filed with the Office of Secretary and Administration as soon as possible after the issuance of the notice of meeting to which the request pertains. However, a single copy of the request will be accepted. Requests to close meetings must be received by the Office of Secretary and Administration no later than the time scheduled for the meeting to which such a request pertains.

(3) The Secretary shall retain one copy of timely requests and forward one copy to each Commissioner, one copy to the interested Office, and two copies to the Docket Section, one for entry in the appropriate docket file, if any, and one to be posted on the Public Notice Board located in that section as an attachment to the Notice of Meeting to which it pertains.

(4) Pleadings replying to requests to open or close shall not be accepted.

(5) Any Commissioner may require that the Commission vote upon the request to open or close. If the request is supported by the votes of a majority of the agency membership, notice of change in meeting shall be issued and the Secretary shall immediately notify the requester and, before the close of business the next working day, have posted such vote and other material required by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section on the Commission's Public Notice Board.

(6) If no Commissioner requests that a vote be taken on a request to open or close a Commission meeting, the Secretary shall by the close of the next working day after the meeting to which such request pertains certify that no vote was taken. The Secretary shall forward one copy of that certification to the requester and two copies of that certification to the Docket Section, one to be placed in the appropriate docket file, if any, and one to be posted on the Public Notice Board, where it will be displayed for one week.
