
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 3010.107 Appeals from interlocutory rulings by presiding officers.
####### Appeals certified by the presiding officer.

(b)(1) Rulings of the presiding officer may be appealed to the Commission when the presiding officer certifies in writing that an interlocutory appeal is warranted. The presiding officer shall not certify an appeal unless the officer finds that:

(i) The ruling involves an important question of law or policy concerning which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; and

(ii) An immediate appeal from the ruling will materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding or subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy.

(2) A request for the presiding officer to certify an appeal shall be made by motion within five days after the presiding officer's ruling has been issued. The request shall set forth with specificity the reasons that a participant believes that an appeal meets the criteria of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Such requests shall also state in detail the legal, policy, and factual arguments supporting the participant's position that the ruling should be modified. If the appeal is from a ruling rejecting or excluding evidence, such request shall include a statement of the substance of the evidence which the participant contends would be adduced by the excluded evidence and the conclusions intended to be derived therefrom.

(3) The presiding officer may request responsive pleadings from other participants prior to ruling upon the request to certify an appeal to the Commission.
