
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Filing Requirements
###### ยง 3010.121 Filing Online system.
####### http://www.prc.gov.

(a) Only registered users of the Filing Online system may file material using the Filing Online system. Both temporary and permanent account registrations are available. Information for establishing a Filing Online account may be obtained on the Commission's website at

(b) A temporary account allows a user to file materials immediately, but expires after 35 days. The purpose of a temporary account is to permit persons to file comments solicited by the Commission on a one-time or infrequent basis, or to file notices of intervention where there is limited time in which to establish a permanent account. A temporary account also may be used on an extraordinary basis for good cause shown.

(c) A permanent account requires the authorization of the Secretary prior to use, but remains active until cancelled. Registration can be in the form of a principal account holder or as an agent of the principal account holder. When a principal account holder is representing the interests of another person, the authority of the principal account holder to represent the person on whose behalf the document is filed must be valid and current, in conformance with ยง 3010.143. The authority of an agent account holder to submit documents for a principal account holder must be valid and current. A principal account holder must promptly inform the Secretary of any change in the principal account holder's authority to represent participants in a proceeding or any change in the authority delegated to an agent account holder to submit documents on the principal account holder's behalf.

(d) Only such material that conforms to the requirements of this part and any other applicable Commission rule or order shall be accepted for filing. In order for material to be accepted using the Filing Online system, it must be submitted to the Commission by a temporary or permanent account holder. Material submitted through the Filing Online system is considered to have been filed on the date indicated on the receipt issued by the Secretary. A filing is accepted when the Secretary, after review, posts the filing on the Daily Listing page of the Commission's website. Material received after the close of regular business hours or on a Saturday, Sunday, Federal holiday or other day on which the Commission is closed shall be deemed to be filed on the next regular business day.
