
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart D - Notices, Motions, and Information Requests
###### ยง 3010.170 Information requests.

(a) An information request is an informal discovery mechanism used at the discretion of the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission, or a presiding officer to obtain information that is likely to materially assist the Commission in the conduct of its proceedings, in the preparation of its reports, or in the performance of its functions under title 39 of the United States Code.

(b) Information requests may be used to:

(1) Require the Postal Service in any proceeding, or any party to a Commission hearing on the record, to provide any information, and associated documents or things in its possession or control, or any information, and any associated documents or things that it can obtain through reasonable effort and expense; or

(2) Request that any person other than the Postal Service or a party to a Commission hearing on the record provide any information, and any associated documents or things that it can obtain through reasonable effort and expense.

(c) Information that can be sought by information request includes, but is not limited to, explanations, confirmations, factual descriptions, data, documents, and other materials. Documents refer to hard copy or electronic conveyance of information and may be stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation into a reasonably usable form. Documents include, but are not limited to, writings, notes, graphs, charts, data files, emails, drawings, photographs, and images. Materials include all matter, other than documents, that convey information.

(d) Information requests shall describe the information, documents, or things sought; shall briefly explain the reason for the request; and shall specify a date by which the response(s) shall be due.

(e) Any person may request the issuance of an information request by motion. The motion shall list the information, documents, or things sought; shall explain the reasons the information request should be issued; and shall demonstrate why the information sought is relevant and material to the Commission's duties under title 39 of the United States Code. Upon consideration of the motion and any responses, the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission, or presiding officer may issue an information request that includes some or all of the proposed questions or modified versions of some or all of the proposed questions. Motions that do not result in the issuance of an information request prior to the Commission's final decision in the docket shall be deemed denied.
