
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### § 3010.310 Discovery - general policy.

(a) Sections 3010.311 through 3010.313 allow discovery reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence during a proceeding noticed for hearing on the record. In general, discovery against a party will be scheduled to end prior to the receipt into evidence of that party's direct case. An exception to this procedure shall operate in all proceedings set for hearing when a party needs to obtain information (such as operating procedures or data) available only from the Postal Service. Such discovery requests are permissible only for the purpose of the development of rebuttal testimony and may be made up to 20 days prior to the filing date for final rebuttal testimony.

(b) The discovery procedures set forth in §§ 3010.311 through 3010.313 are not exclusive. Parties are encouraged to engage in informal discovery whenever possible to clarify exhibits and testimony. The results of these efforts may be introduced into the record by stipulation, by supplementary testimony or exhibit, by presenting selected written interrogatories and answers for adoption by a witness at the hearing, or by other appropriate means. In the interest of reducing motion practice, parties also are expected to use informal means to clarify questions and to identify portions of discovery requests considered overbroad or burdensome.

(c) If a party or an officer or agent of a party fails to obey an order of the Commission or the presiding officer to provide or permit discovery pursuant to §§ 3010.311 through 3010.313, the Commission or the presiding officer may make such orders in regard to the failure as are just, and among others, may direct that the matters regarding which the order was made or any other designated facts shall be taken to be established for the purposes of the proceeding in accordance with the claim of the parties obtaining the order, or prohibit the disobedient party from introducing designated matters in evidence, or strike the evidence, complaint or pleadings or parts thereof.
