
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.311 Interrogatories for purpose of discovery.
####### Service and contents.

(a)In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any party may propound to any other party in a proceeding written, sequentially numbered interrogatories, by witness, requesting non-privileged information relevant to the subject matter and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in such proceeding, to be answered by the party served, who shall furnish such information as is available to the requesting party. A party through interrogatories may require any other party to identify each person whom the other party expects to call as a witness at the hearing and to state the subject matter on which the witness is expected to testify. The party propounding the interrogatories shall file them with the Commission and serve them on the answering party. Follow-up interrogatories to clarify or elaborate on the answer to an earlier discovery request may be filed after the initial discovery period ends. They must be filed within seven days of receipt of the answer to the previous interrogatory unless extraordinary circumstances are shown.
