
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.321 Hearings.
####### Order of presentations.

(e)(1) The proponent of a matter before the Commission shall present the proponent's direct case first. In matters initiated by the Postal Service, the Postal Service shall be considered the proponent. In complaint proceedings under section 3662 of the Act, the complainant shall be considered the proponent. The proponent also shall be provided an opportunity to respond to any rebuttal to the proponent's direct case. In all other instances, the Commission or the presiding officer shall determine the order of presentation.

(2) The order of presentations by parties other than the proponent shall be determined by the Commission or the presiding officer.

(3) The Commission or presiding officer shall announce the order of presentation of parties and individual witnesses prior to hearing sessions and shall issue such other procedural orders as may be necessary to assure the orderly and expeditious conclusion of the hearing. Parties may present their preferences for order of appearance to the Commission or the presiding officer orally at a hearing or by filing a notice prior to the scheduled hearing date. Parties who disagree with a proposed order of appearances may move for a revised order of appearances either orally at a hearing or by filing a written motion pursuant to ยง 3010.160.
