
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.321 Hearings.
####### Swearing in of witnesses.

(f)(1) Witnesses attending a hearing whose testimony is to be taken shall be sworn, or shall affirm, before their testimony shall be deemed evidence in the proceeding or any questions are put to them. The witness shall be sworn by means of the following (or an equivalent): "Please raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear (or affirm), that the testimony that you are about to give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth? Please state your full name."

(2) The oath shall be given upon the first appearance of the witness providing testimony. Upon subsequent appearances, the witness is to be reminded by the presiding officer that the witness remains under oath for the duration of the proceeding.

(3) Witnesses not attending a hearing whose testimony is entered by counsel during a hearing shall attach a signed declaration that the testimony being submitted is that of the witness. A declaration shall be included with each piece of written testimony, and each set of written cross-examination. The declaration shall state the following (or an equivalent): "Declaration of [witness name]. I, [witness name], hereby declare under penalty of perjury that: The [testimony, designated responses to written cross-examination] filed under my name were prepared by me or under my direction; and were I to [provide oral testimony, respond orally to the questions appearing in the interrogatories], my answers would be the same."

(4) Hearings that are conducted by the written submission of testimony only shall also attach written declarations to testimony and cross-examination as described above.
