
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.321 Hearings.
####### Written testimony.

(2)(i) Written testimony shall be offered in evidence by motion. The motion shall be made orally during a hearing, or in writing when the hearing is conducted by the written submission of testimony only. When a party moves to enter testimony into the record, three hard copies of the document shall simultaneously be submitted to the Commission for the record. The copies are to be printed single-sided, and not stapled, hole-punched, or bound, but may be fastened together by paper or binder clip, or equivalent.

(ii) Witnesses shall be provided an opportunity to verify that the written testimony they are sponsoring is their testimony and that it would be the same if given orally. The witness, or counsel, shall state the original filing date of the testimony and identify all subsequent filings that amended the original testimony. If there are any final corrections to the testimony, the corrections may be noted on the hard copies submitted to the Commission. However, the witness shall be required to file errata to the testimony within seven days of the hearing, making corrections only to the extent as identified during the hearing. Any other changes shall be requested separately by motion to amend the record.

(iii) Parties shall be provided an opportunity to object to all or part of a witness's written testimony prior to entering that testimony into the record. Objections that have not previously been made in writing at least 14 days prior to the hearing date shall be granted only under extraordinary circumstances.

(iv) After resolution of all objections, the presiding officer shall order the testimony entered into the record as evidence. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, the written testimony shall not be copied into the hearing transcript.
