
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.321 Hearings.
####### Library references.

(3)(i) Library references sponsored by a witness and associated with the witness's written testimony or written cross-examination may be offered in evidence by motion. The motion shall be made orally during a public hearing, or in writing for a hearing that is conducted by the written submission of testimony only.

(ii) Witnesses shall be provided an opportunity to verify that the library reference is their library reference and to affirm that they are in fact sponsoring the library reference. If a witness inadvertently fails to verify and affirm that the witness is sponsoring a library reference that is cited in written testimony or in response to written cross-examination, it will be presumed that the library reference is to be included in the record to the extent specified in the notice of the filing of the library reference.

(iii) Parties shall be provided an opportunity to object to all or any part of the library reference being entered into the record. Objections that have not been made in writing at least 14 days prior to the hearing date shall be granted only under extraordinary circumstances.

(iv) After resolution of all objections, the presiding officer shall order the library reference be entered into the record as evidence. Unless ordered by the presiding officer, library references shall not be copied into the hearing transcript.
