
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.321 Hearings.
####### Written cross-examination.

(4)(i) Written cross-examination will be utilized as a substitute for oral cross-examination whenever possible, particularly to introduce factual or statistical evidence. Written cross-examination may be offered in evidence by motion. The motion shall be made orally during a public hearing, or in writing for a hearing that is conducted by the written submission of testimony only. Written cross-examination proposed by parties other than the party associated with the witness shall be considered first, followed by that of the party of the witness.

(ii) Designations of written cross-examination should be filed with the Commission and served on the answering party no later than three working days before the scheduled appearance of a witness. Designations shall identify every item to be offered as evidence, listing the party who initially posed the discovery request, the witness and/or party to whom the question was addressed (if different from the witness answering), the number of the request and, if more than one answer is provided, the dates of all answers to be included in the record. (For example, "PR-T1-17 to USPS witness Jones, answered by USPS witness Smith (March 1, 1997) as updated (March 21, 1997))." When a party designates written cross-examination, three hard copies of the documents to be included shall simultaneously be submitted to the Secretary. The documents are to be printed single-sided, and not stapled, hole-punched, or bound, but may be fastened together by paper or binder clip, or equivalent. The Secretary shall prepare for the record a packet containing all materials designated for written cross-examination in a format that facilitates review by the witness and counsel.

(iii) A witness shall be provided an opportunity to verify that the written cross-examination is that of the witness and to assert that if the written cross-examination were being provided orally at the hearing it would be that of the witness. If there are any final corrections to the written cross-examination, the corrections may be noted on the hard copies before submission to the Commission.

(iv) Parties shall be provided an opportunity to object to all or any part of the written cross-examination prior to entering the testimony into the record.

(v) After resolution of all objections, the presiding officer shall order the written cross-examination entered into the record as evidence. The presiding office shall direct that the written cross-examination be copied into the hearing transcript.
