
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.321 Hearings.
####### Oral cross-examination.

(5)(i) Oral cross-examination will be permitted for clarifying written cross-examination and for testing assumptions, conclusions, or other opinion evidence.

(ii) Notices of intent to conduct oral cross-examination should be filed three or more working days before the announced appearance of the witness and should include specific references to the subject matter to be examined and page references to the relevant direct testimony and exhibits. If no notices are filed, and the Commission or presiding officer has no other reason for the witness to appear, the Commission or the presiding officer, in their discretion, may excuse the witness from appearing at the hearing and direct that the witness's testimony be entered by counsel.

(iii) A party intending to use complex numerical hypotheticals, or to question using intricate or extensive cross-references, shall provide adequately documented cross-examination exhibits for the record. Copies of these exhibits should be filed at least two full business days before the scheduled appearance of the witness. They may be filed online or delivered in hardcopy form to counsel for the witness, at the discretion of the party. When presented, examination exhibits are not to be considered record evidence. They are to be transcribed into the record for reference only. If adopted by the witness, the examination exhibit may be offered in evidence by motion.

(iv) At the conclusion of oral cross-examination, the witness shall be given an opportunity to consult with counsel. Counsel shall then be provided an opportunity to examine the witness for the purpose of clarifying statements previously made during oral cross-examination.
