
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.322 Evidence - general.
####### Designation of evidence from other Commission dockets.

(e)(1) Parties may request that evidence received in other Commission proceedings be entered into the record of the current proceeding. These requests shall be made by motion, shall explain the purpose of the designation, and shall identify material by page and line or paragraph number.

(2) In proceedings to consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office conducted pursuant to part 3021 of this chapter, these requests must be made at least six days before the date for filing the party's direct case. Oppositions to motions for designations and/or requests for counter-designations shall be filed within three days. Oppositions to requests for counter-designations are due within two days.

(3) In all other proceedings subject to this section, these requests must, in the absence of extraordinary circumstances, be made at least 28 days before the date for filing the party's direct case. Oppositions to motions for designations and/or requests for counter-designations shall be filed within 14 days. Oppositions to requests for counter-designations are due within seven days.

(4) In all proceedings subject to this section, the moving party must submit two copies of the identified material to the Secretary at the time requests for designations and counter-designations are made.
