
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.323 Evidence - introduction and reliance upon studies and analyses.
####### sua sponte,

(2) Upon timely and otherwise proper request of a party, orthe Commission or the presiding officer may rule that matters other than those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section are necessary to establish the foundation for reception of the evidence concerned and must be furnished.

(3) When the requestor is other than the Commission or the presiding officer, the cost of producing the material required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section, shall be borne by the requesting party unless otherwise ordered, for good cause shown by the requestor. When the Commission or the presiding officer is the requestor, it may assume or equitably allocate such costs for good cause shown by the requester.

(4) If the recipient of a request for materials pursuant to this paragraph (b) asserts that compliance with the request would conflict with patent, copyright, trade secret or contract rights applicable to the requested material, the recipient shall immediately notify the requestor and the presiding officer. If valid, the presiding officer shall devise means of accommodating such rights. Such means may include protective orders, including access under protective conditions to the computer facilities of the recipient of a request, making material available for inspection, compensation, or other procedures, according to the nature of the right affected by compliance with this paragraph (b). If the presiding officer determines that compensation is necessary to accommodate the affected right, the cost of compensation shall be borne in the same manner that paragraph (b)(3) of this section prescribes for bearing the costs referenced there. If such right cannot be accommodated by reasonable compensation, or by protective orders or other procedures, and, as a result, materials required by this paragraph (b) cannot be provided, the presiding officer shall determine, in the presiding officer's discretion, whether evidence that relies upon the materials not provided shall be admissible or afforded limited weight.
