
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3010 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart F - Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
###### ยง 3010.334 Commission decisions.

(a) At the conclusion of a proceeding on the record with the opportunity for a hearing, the Commission shall issue a final decision which either:

(1) Adopts an intermediate decision prepared by a presiding officer; or

(2) Rules upon the matters that are before the Commission, or provides explanation for why such rulings are not being provided.

(b) Commission decisions shall be based on the evidence entered into the record, and consider the arguments filed on brief. Argument provided in comments may further inform the Commission's decision, but have no evidentiary standing and are not required to be addressed in the final decision.

(c) An intermediate decision may be adopted by the Commission in whole or in part. When an intermediate decision is adopted in part, the Commission shall explain its decisions regarding both what is and is not adopted.

(d) When exceptions, or objections to exceptions, to an intermediate decision are filed pursuant to ยง 3010.336 by any party to the proceeding, the Commission shall consider and rule upon such exceptions, or objections to exceptions in its final decision.

(e) Commission decisions shall be filed in the docket and served on all parties. Commission decisions shall be part of the record of the proceeding.
