
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3011 - NON-PUBLIC MATERIALS PROVIDED TO THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart B - Submitting Non-Public Materials and Seeking Non-Public Treatment
###### ยง 3011.203 Unredacted version of the non-public materials.
####### http://www.prc.gov

(b) The Filing Online method that results in posting a document that is available to the public, which is accessible through the Commission's website () described under part 3010, subpart B of this chapter may not be used to submit the unredacted version of non-public materials.

(c) The filing of the unredacted version of the non-public materials shall be made in accordance with the following requirements.

(1) Except if using an alternative system approved by the Commission under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the unredacted version of the non-public materials shall be filed in a sealed envelope clearly marked "Confidential. Do Not Post on Web" to the Office of Secretary and Administration, Postal Regulatory Commission, 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001. The unredacted version of the non-public materials may not be password protected. Two copies of the unredacted version of a non-public document shall be filed using an electronic format such as compact discs (CDs), or digital video discs or digital versatile discs (DVDs) that shall be clearly marked "Confidential. Do Not Post on Web." If making an electronic unredacted version of a non-public document is impracticable, two hard copies (paper) versions of the non-public document may be filed.

(2) The Secretary of the Commission has authority to approve the use of a secure alternative system to file non-public materials. The Secretary may set forth any minimum requirements associated with using an alternative system. If a filer using the alternative system fails to comply with any of the Secretary's requirements, the Secretary has discretion to revoke the filer's eligibility to use the alternative system or impose requirements specific to the filer as necessary to ensure secure transmission of non-public materials.

(d) The unredacted version of a spreadsheet shall display the formulas used and their links to related spreadsheets. The unredacted version of workpapers or data shall be submitted in a form, and be accompanied by sufficient explanation and documentation, to allow them to be replicated using a publicly available PC application.
