
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3013 - PROCEDURES FOR COMPELLING PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION BY THE POSTAL SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Subpoenas
###### § 3013.12 Subpoenas issued without receipt of a third-party request.

(a) A subpoena duly authorized by a majority of the Commissioners then holding office may be issued by the Chairman, a designated Commissioner, or an administrative law judge under § 3013.11 without a request having been made by a third party under § 3013.13.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a subpoena shall not be issued until after the covered person has been provided an opportunity to produce the requested information voluntarily.

(c) A subpoena may be issued summarily without first providing an opportunity to produce the requested information voluntarily if a delay in the issuance of the subpoena could unreasonably limit or prevent production of the information being sought.

(d) Subpoenas issued under this section shall be issued subject to the right of the Postal Service and other interested persons to file a motion pursuant to § 3010.160(a) of this chapter to quash the subpoena, to limit the scope of the subpoena, or to condition the subpoena as provided in § 3013.11(d). Such motion shall include any objections to the subpoena that are personal to the covered person responsible for providing the information being sought. Motions alleging undue burden or cost must state with particularity the basis for such claims. Answers to the motion may be filed by any interested person pursuant to § 3010.160(b) of this chapter. Pending the resolution of any such motion, the covered person shall secure and maintain the requested information.
