
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter C - General Rules of Practice for Proceedings Before the Commission
#### PART 3013 - PROCEDURES FOR COMPELLING PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION BY THE POSTAL SERVICE
##### Subpart B - Subpoenas
###### § 3013.13 Subpoenas issued in response to a third-party request.
####### Procedure for requesting and issuing subpoenas when no hearings have been ordered.

(b)Any person may request the issuance of a subpoena to a covered person pursuant to § 3013.11 to enforce an information request issued by the Commission or a Commissioner even though no hearings have been ordered by the Commission.

(1) A request for the issuance of a subpoena shall be made by motion as provided by § 3010.160 of this chapter. A copy of the request shall be served upon the Postal Service as provided by § 3010.127 of this chapter and by forwarding a copy to the General Counsel of the Postal Service, or such other person authorized to receive process by personal service, by Express Mail or Priority Mail, or by First-Class Mail, Return Receipt requested. The Postal Service shall transmit a copy of the request to any covered person that it deems likely to be affected by the request and shall provide the person requesting the subpoena with the name, business address and business phone number of the persons to whom the request has been transmitted. Proof of service of the request shall be filed with the Secretary by the person requesting the subpoena. The Secretary shall issue a notice of the filing of proof of service and the deadline for filing answers to the request.

(2) Answers to the motion may be filed by the Postal Service, by any person to whom the Postal Service has transmitted the request, and by any other person. Answers raising objections, including allegations of undue burden or cost, must state with particularity the basis for such claims. Answers shall be filed as required by § 3010.160(b) of this chapter.

(3) Following receipt of the request and any answers to the request, the Commissioners shall determine whether the requested subpoena should be issued and, if so, whether any conditions should be placed on the scope or content of the subpoena or on the responses to the subpoena. The Commissioners may, but are not required, to entertain further oral or written submissions before acting. A majority of the Commissioners then holding office must concur in writing before a subpoena may be issued.
