
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter D - Special Rules of Practice for Specific Proceeding Types
#### PART 3020 - RULES APPLICABLE TO POSTAL SERVICE REQUESTS FOR CHANGES IN THE NATURE OF POSTAL SERVICES
##### ยง 3020.105 Motions.
###### Motions to be excused from answering discovery requests.

(b)(1) A motion to be excused from answering discovery requests shall be filed with the Commission within three days of the filing of the interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission to which the motion is directed. If a motion to be excused from answering is made part of an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission, the part to which objection is made shall be clearly identified. Claims of privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. Claims of undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer or respond to the request, providing estimates of costs and workhours required, to the extent possible.

(2) An answer to a motion to be excused from answering a discovery request shall be filed within two days of the filing of the motion. The text of the discovery request and any answer previously provided by the Postal Service shall be included as an attachment to the answer.

(3) Unless the Commission or presiding officer grants the motion to be excused from answering, the Postal Service shall answer the interrogatory, production request, or request for admission. Answers shall be filed in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter within three days of the date on which a motion to be excused from answering is denied.

(4) The Commission or presiding officer may impose such terms and conditions as are just and may, for good cause, issue a protective order, including an order limiting or conditioning interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admission as justice requires to protect the Postal Service from undue annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or expense.
