
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter D - Special Rules of Practice for Specific Proceeding Types
#### PART 3020 - RULES APPLICABLE TO POSTAL SERVICE REQUESTS FOR CHANGES IN THE NATURE OF POSTAL SERVICES
##### ยง 3020.117 Interrogatories.
###### Service and contents.

(a)In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any participant in a proceeding may propound to any other participant no more than a total of 25 written, sequentially numbered interrogatories, by witness, requesting non-privileged information relevant to the subject matter of the proceeding. An interrogatory with subparts that are logically or factually subsumed within and necessarily related to the primary question will be counted as one interrogatory. The respondent shall answer each interrogatory and furnish such information as is available. The participant propounding the interrogatories shall file them with the Commission in conformance with part 3010, subpart B, of this chapter. Follow-up interrogatories that clarify or elaborate on the answer to an earlier discovery request may be filed after the period for intervenor discovery on the Postal Service case ends, if the interrogatories are filed within seven days of receipt of the answer to the previous interrogatory. In extraordinary circumstances, follow-up interrogatories may be filed not less than six days prior to the filing date for the participant's rebuttal or surrebuttal testimony.
