
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter D - Special Rules of Practice for Specific Proceeding Types
#### PART 3020 - RULES APPLICABLE TO POSTAL SERVICE REQUESTS FOR CHANGES IN THE NATURE OF POSTAL SERVICES
##### ยง 3020.119 Admissions.
###### Answers.

(b)(1) A matter for which admission is requested shall be separately set forth in the request and is deemed admitted unless, within seven days after the request is filed, or within such other period as may be established by the Commission or presiding officer, the respondent files a written answer or motion to be excused from answering pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. Answers to requests for admission shall be filed with the Commission in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter.

(2) If the answer filed by the respondent does not admit a matter asserted in the participant's request, it must either specifically deny the matter or explain in detail why it cannot truthfully admit or deny the asserted matter. When good faith requires, the respondent must admit a portion of the asserted matter and either deny or qualify the remaining portion of such asserted matter. Lack of knowledge for failing to admit or deny can be invoked only after reasonable inquiry if the information already possessed or reasonably obtainable is insufficient to enable an admission or denial.

(3) Grounds for objection to requests for admission must be stated. Objections cannot be based solely upon the ground that the request presents a genuine issue for trial.
