
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter E - Regulations Governing Market Dominant Products, Competitive Products, Product Lists, and Market Tests
#### PART 3045 - RULES FOR MARKET TESTS OF EXPERIMENTAL PRODUCTS
##### ยง 3045.20 Data collection and reporting requirements.

(a) A notice of a market test shall include a data collection plan for the market test as required by ยง 3045.3(a)(2)(vi). Data collection plans shall include, at a minimum:

(1) The revenue by fiscal quarter received to date by the Postal Service from the market test;

(2) Attributable costs incurred in conducting the market test, including product specific costs related to the administration of the market test; and

(3) Volumes of the experimental product by fiscal quarter.

(b) The Commission may request additional information or data as it deems appropriate.

(c) To assess the potential impact of a market test in a particular geographic market, the Commission may require the Postal Service to report the revenues from the market test for specified geographic markets.

(d) The Postal Service shall file the information required by the data collection plan in data collection reports. Data collection reports must be filed within 40 days after the close of each fiscal quarter during which the market test is offered, or such other period as the Commission may prescribe.

(e) The Postal Service shall file in its Annual Compliance Report information on each market test conducted during the fiscal year pursuant to ยง 3050.21(h) of this chapter.
