
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter F - Periodic Reporting, Accounting Practices, and Tax Rules
#### PART 3055 - SERVICE PERFORMANCE AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION REPORTING
##### Subpart B - Periodic Reporting of Service Performance Achievements
###### § 3055.31 Contents of the Quarterly Report of service performance achievements.

(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section shall be included in the quarterly report of service performance achievements.

(b) The class or group-specific reporting items specified in §§ 3055.45 through 3055.70.

(c) The identification of each product, or component of a product, granted an exception from reporting pursuant to § 3055.3, and a certification that the rationale for originally granting the exception remains valid.

(d) Documentation showing how data reported at a given level of aggregation were derived from data reported at greater levels of disaggregation. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors. Any graphical representation of data provided shall also be accompanied by the underlying data presented in spreadsheet form.

(e) A year-to-date aggregation of each data item provided in each Quarterly Report due for the reported fiscal year, where applicable, including volumes and other weighting factors provided in electronic format, with formulas shown and data links preserved to allow traceability to individual Quarterly Reports.

(f) For each Market Dominant product, the average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, during the previous fiscal quarter, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels. "Actual delivery days" shall include all days in which Market Dominant products are eligible for delivery, excluding Sundays and holidays. The report shall include the following information on dispersion around the average:

(1) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +1 day of the applicable service standard;

(2) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +2 days of the applicable service standard; and

(3) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +3 days of the applicable service standard.

(g) A description of each Site-Specific Operating Plan, including operation completion time performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Site-Specific Operating Plan measurement category during the previous fiscal quarter. Such information shall be at the National level and disaggregated by Division and Region.

(h) A description of the total mail volumes measured and excluded from measurement. Such description shall include:

(1) For each class of Market Dominant products (except Special Services), a report of the reasons that mailpieces were excluded during the previous fiscal quarter. The report shall include:

(i) The exclusion reason;

(ii) The exclusion reason description;

(iii) The number of mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement for the individual exclusion reason; and
