
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter III - Postal Regulatory Commission
### Subchapter F - Periodic Reporting, Accounting Practices, and Tax Rules
#### PART 3055 - SERVICE PERFORMANCE AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION REPORTING
##### Subpart B - Periodic Reporting of Service Performance Achievements
###### ยง 3055.31 Contents of the Quarterly Report of service performance achievements.
####### i.e.,,(i.e.,

(iv) The exclusion reason as a percent of total mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the number of mailpieces excluded from measurement (provided in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section) divided by the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement across all exclusion reason categoriesthe sum of all values provided in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section).

(v) The report shall include information for each quarter in the applicable fiscal year.

(2) The report described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:

(3) For each class of Market Dominant products and for each Market Dominant product (except Special Services), a description of the mail volumes measured and unmeasured during the previous fiscal quarter. The description shall explain in detail any notations regarding the Postal Service's inability to collect any data. Corresponding data shall also be provided for the same period last year (SPLY). Each report is due within 60 days of the close of each fiscal quarter.

(4) The report described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:

(i) A report of quarterly third-party audit results of its internal service performance measurement system for Market Dominant products. This report shall include a description of the audit measures used and the audit results specific to inbound and outbound single-piece First-Class Mail International and the Green Card option of the Return Receipt service. For any measure deemed by the auditor to be not achieved or only partially achieved, the Postal Service shall include in its report an explanation of its plan to achieve said measure in the future. Each report is due within 60 days of the close of each fiscal quarter.
