
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter D - Organization and Administration
#### PART 265 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
###### ยง 265.9 Fees.
####### Search.

(1)(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. Search fees shall be charged for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. The Postal Service may charge for time spent searching even if no responsive records are located or if it determines that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(ii) For each half hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fee shall be $21.00.

(iii) Requesters shall be charged the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. Requesters shall be notified of the costs associated with creating such a program and must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.

(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored at a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), or other storage facility, additional costs may be charged for their retrieval.
