
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter C - Post Office Services [Domestic Mail]
#### PART 111 - GENERAL INFORMATION ON POSTAL SERVICE
##### ยง 111.3 Amendments to the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual.
###### see

(a) A complete issue of the DMM is incorporated by reference annually (ยง 111.1). Except for interim or final regulations published as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, only notifications rather than complete text of changes made to the DMM are published in theThese documents are published in the form of one summary transmittal letter for each issue of the DMM. A complete issue of the DMM incorporated by reference, which includes the text of all changes published to date, is filed with the Director, Office of the Federal Register. Subscribers to the DMM receive the latest issue of the DMM from the Government Publishing Office (see ยง 111.1 for subscription information).

(b) When the Postal Service invites comments from the public on a proposed change to the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual, the proposed change and, if adopted, the full text of the interim or the final regulation is published in the

(c) The Postal Bulletin contains the full text of all interim and final regulations published as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, and the full text of all other changes to the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual that are summarized in the notices published under paragraph (a) of this section, except for nonsubstantive changes and corrections of typographical errors. The Postal Bulletin is a biweekly document issued by the Postal Service to amend and revise policies and procedures. A 1-year subscription to the Postal Bulletin and certain back copies can be purchased by the public from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402-9371.

(d) Interim regulations published in full text or referenced as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, are published, as appropriate, in the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual in full text or referenced at the place where they would appear if they become final regulations.

(e) Announcements of changes to the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual not published in theas provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and not published in the Postal Bulletin as provided in paragraph (c) are not deemed final under the provisions of this part 111.

(f) For references to amendments to the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual adopted under paragraph (b) of this section after issuance of the most recent transmittal letter (termed Summary of Changes in the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual) listed below, see ยง 111.3 in the List of CFR Sections affected at the end of this volume.
