
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter D - Organization and Administration
#### PART 265 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Availability of Records
###### ยง 265.14 Rules concerning specific categories of records.
####### Information not subject to mandatory public disclosure.

(b)Certain types of information are exempt from mandatory disclosure under exemptions contained in the Freedom of Information Act and in 39 U.S.C. 410(c). The Postal Service will exercise its discretion, in accordance with the policy stated in ยง 265.1(c), as implemented by instructions issued by the Records Office with the approval of the General Counsel in determining whether the public interest is served by the inspection or copying of records that are:

(1) Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Postal Service.

(2) Trade secrets, or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information, obtained from any person.

(3) Information of a commercial nature, including trade secrets, whether or not obtained from a person outside the Postal Service, which under good business practice would not be publicly disclosed. Information is of a commercial nature if it relates to commerce, trade, profit, or the Postal Service's ability to conduct itself in a businesslike manner.

(i) When assessing whether information is commercial in nature, the Postal Service will consider whether the information:

(A) Relates to products or services subject to economic competition, including, but not limited to, "competitive" products or services as defined in 39 U.S.C. 3631, an inbound international service, or an outbound international service for which rates or service features are treated as nonpublic;

(B) Relates to the Postal Service's activities that are analogous to a private business in the marketplace;

(C) Would be of potential benefit to individuals or entities in economic competition with the Postal Service, its customers, suppliers, affiliates, or business partners or could be used to cause harm to a commercial interest of the Postal Service, its customers, suppliers, affiliates, or business partners;

(D) Is proprietary or includes conditions or protections on distribution and disclosure, is subject to a nondisclosure agreement, or a third party has otherwise expressed an interest in protecting such information from disclosure;

(E) Is the result of negotiations, agreements, contracts or business deals between the Postal Service and a business entity; or

(F) Relates primarily to the Postal Service's governmental functions or its activities as a provider of basic public services.

(ii) No one factor is determinative. Rather, each factor should be considered in conjunction with the other factors and the overall character of the particular information. Some examples of commercial information include, but are not limited to:

(A) Information related to methods of handling valuable registered mail.

(B) Records of money orders except as provided in section 509.3 of the Domestic Mail Manual.

(C) Technical information concerning postage meters and prototypes submitted for Postal Service approval prior to leasing to mailers.

(D) Quantitative data, whether historical or current, reflecting the number of postage meters or PC postage accounts.

(E) Reports of market surveys conducted by or under contract on behalf of the Postal Service.

(F) Records indicating carrier or delivery lines of travel.

(G) Information which, if publicly disclosed, could materially increase procurement costs.

(H) Information which, if publicly disclosed, could compromise testing or examination materials.

(I) Service performance data on competitive services.

(J) Facility specific volume, revenue, and cost information.

(K) Country-specific international mail volume and revenue data.

(L) Non-public international volume, revenue and cost data.

(M) Pricing and negotiated terms in bilateral arrangements with foreign postal operators.

(N) Information identifying USPS business customers.

(O) Financial information in or the identities of parties to Negotiated Service Agreements or Package Incentive Agreements.

(P) Negotiated terms in contracts.

(Q) Negotiated terms in leases.

(R) Geolocation data.

(S) Proprietary algorithms or software created by the Postal Service.

(T) Sales performance goals, standards, or requirements.

(U) Technical information or specifications concerning mail processing equipment.
