
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter D - Organization and Administration
#### PART 266 - PRIVACY OF INFORMATION
##### ยง 266.6 Appeal procedure.
###### Appeal procedure.

(a)(1) If a request for notification of or to inspect, copy, or amend a record is denied, in whole or in part, or if no determination is made within the period prescribed by this part, the requester may appeal to the General Counsel, U.S. Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., Washington, DC 20260-1101.

(2) The requester must submit an appeal in writing within 90 days of the date of denial, or within 90 days of such request if the appeal is from a failure of the custodian to make a determination. The letter of appeal should include, as applicable:

(i) Reasonable identification of the record to which the requester sought notification, access, or amendment;

(ii) A statement of the Postal Service action or failure to act, and of the relief sought; and

(iii) A copy of the request, of the notification of denial, and of any other related correspondence, if any.

(3) Any record found on appeal to be incomplete, inaccurate, not relevant, or not timely, must be appropriately amended within 30 working days of the date of such findings.

(4) The decision of the General Counsel constitutes the final decision of the Postal Service on the right of the requester to be notified of; inspect, copy, or otherwise have access to; or change or update a record. The decision on the appeal must be in writing and, in the event of a denial, must set forth the reasons for such denial and state the individual's right to obtain judicial review in a district court. An indexed file of decisions on appeals must be maintained by the General Counsel.
