
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter D - Organization and Administration
#### PART 267 - PROTECTION OF INFORMATION
##### ยง 267.5 National Security Information.
###### Disposal.

(2)Classified documents no longer needed by the Postal Service shall be either properly destroyed or returned to the originating agency.

(3) Freedom of Information Act or mandatory review requests.

(i) Requests for classified documents made under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and mandatory review requests (requests under Section 3-501 of the Executive Order for the declassification and release of information), including requests by the news media, should be submitted to: Manager, Records Office, U.S. Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW., Washington, DC 20260.

(ii) In response to an FOIA request or a mandatory review request, the Postal Service shall not refuse to confirm the existence or non-existence of a document, unless the fact of its existence or non-existence would itself be classifiable.

(iii) The Postal Service shall forward all FOIA and mandatory review requests for national security information in its custody (including that within records derivatively classified by the USPS) to the originating agency for review unless the agency objects on the grounds that its association with the information requires protection. The requester shall be notified that:

(A) The request was referred; and

(B) The originating agency will provide a direct response.
