
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter F - Personnel
#### PART 491 - GARNISHMENT OF SALARIES OF EMPLOYEES OF THE POSTAL SERVICE AND THE POSTAL RATE COMMISSION
##### ยง 491.1 Authorized Agent to receive service.

Notwithstanding the designation, in ยง 2.2 of this chapter, of the General Counsel as agent for the receipt of legal process against the Postal Service, the sole agent for service of garnishment process directed to the pay of Postal Service employees and employees of the Postal Rate Commission ("employees") is the Manager, Payroll Processing Branch, 2825 Lone Oak Parkway, Eagan, MN 55121-9650 ("Authorized Agent"). The Authorized Agent shall have sole authority to receive service of legal process in the nature of garnishment (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "process") arising under the law of any state, territory, or possession, or the order of a court of competent jurisdiction of any state, territory, or possession (including any order for child support and alimony or bankruptcy). The Authorized Agent may not receive or transmit service of process in a private legal matter on behalf of an employee. No process shall be effectively served until it is received by the Authorized Agent or his designee. No other employee shall have the authority to accept service of such process. Service of process in conformity with Rule 4(i) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Appendix) is not waived for any suit or action wherein the Postal Service, its officers, or employees are parties. Any Order, issued in bankruptcy, for the withholding of sums from pay due an employee and which is directed to the Postal Service for handling outside the voluntary allotment procedure, is legal process subject to the provisions of these regulations.
