
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter G - Postage Programs
#### PART 501 - AUTHORIZATION TO MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTE POSTAGE EVIDENCING SYSTEMS
##### ยง 501.2 Postage Evidencing System provider authorization.

(a) The Postal Service considers Postage Evidencing Systems and their respective infrastructure to be essential to the exercise of its specific powers to prescribe postage and provide evidence of payment of postage under 39 U.S.C. 404(a)(2) and (4).

(b) Due to the potential for adverse impact upon Postal Service revenue, the following activities may not be engaged in by any person or entity without prior, written approval of the Postal Service. Persons or entities that perform these activities are referred to collectively as Postage Evidencing System (PES) Providers in this section.

(1) Manufacturing and/or distributing any Postage Evidencing System that generates or produces U.S. postage.

(2) Repairing, refurbishing, remanufacturing, modifying, or destroying any component of a Postage Evidencing System that accounts for or authorizes the printing of U.S. postage.

(3) Owning or operating an infrastructure that maintains operating data for the production of U.S. postage, or accounts for U.S. postage purchased for distribution through a Postage Evidencing System.

(4) Owning or operating an infrastructure that maintains operating data that is used to facilitate registration with the Postal Service of customers of a Postage Evidencing System.

(c) Approval to become a Postage Evidencing System Provider:

(1) Any person or entity seeking authorization to become a PES Provider must submit a request to the Postal Service in writing to the Office of Commercial Payment. Once the request is received, the Office of Commercial Payment will provide the applicant the PES Provider Applicant Guide and the Intelligent Mail Indicia Performance Criteria (IMIPC), the IMIPC setting forth PES and indicia specification and requirements. The contact information for Commercial Payment can be found in ยง 501.2(f).

(2) The PES Provider Applicant Guide sets forth the process for applicants seeking to become a PES Provider. An applicant is subject to the rules in both that Guide and the IMIPC, while they are attempting to gain approval to become a PES Provider. Although the Guide sets forth the methodology for a PES provider applicant to be approved as a PES provider, it is not a replacement for postal regulations; such regulations govern the process. As such, the Guide will be updated to reflect changes in postal regulations.

(3) An applicant applying for approval to become a PES Provider must undergo three (3) primary phases which are laid out in the PES Provider Applicant Guide: Applicant Introduction and Letter of Intent; Applicant Qualification and Registration; and PES Evaluation. Each phase includes prerequisites to enter the phase, deliverables expected during that phase, and a requirement of written approval by the Office of Commercial Payment to allow the process to continue to the next phase. Please note that, to the extent that a PES provider applicant seeks to obtain access to the IMIPC, such access should only be granted after the applicant enters into a Non-disclosure agreement with the Postal Service permitting such access and the usage thereof.

(4) To the extent that an applicant reaches the PES Evaluation phase, then the applicant is governed by Postal Requirements, the IMIPC, and the PES Provider Applicant Guide even though not yet an authorized PES Provider.

(5) The Postal Service, in its sole discretion, may approve an applicant. In reaching its approval determination, the Postal Service may review factors and make determinations including, but not limited to, satisfactory evidence of the applicant's integrity and financial responsibility, commitment to comply with the Postal Requirements, and a determination that disclosure to the applicant of Postal Service customer, financial, or other data of a commercial nature necessary to perform the function for which approval is sought would be appropriate and consistent with good business practices within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 410(c)(2).

(6) No applicant is considered a PES Provider until the Postal Service issues a final written decision. This is accomplished by the provision of a final approval of the applicant's status as an authorized PES Provider in writing from the Vice President of Mail Entry & Payment Technology (or successor). The applicant is approved in writing to engage in the function(s) for which authorization was sought and approved.

(d) To the extent that any person or entity is approved to be a PES Provider, such PES Provider must adhere to the Postal Requirements.

(e) As a condition of obtaining authorization under this section, the PES Provider's facilities used for the manufacture, distribution, storage, resetting, repair, refurbishment, remanufacturing, modifying, or destruction of a Postage Evidencing System and all facilities housing infrastructure supporting Postage Evidencing Systems will be subject to unannounced inspection by representatives of the Postal Service. If such facilities are outside the continental United States, the PES Provider will be responsible for all reasonable and necessary travel-related costs incurred by the Postal Service to conduct the inspections. Travel-related costs are determined in accordance with Postal Service Handbook F-15, Travel and Relocation. At its discretion, the Postal Service may continue to fund routine inspections outside the continental United States as it has in the past, provided the costs are not associated with particular security issues related to a PES Provider's Postage Evidencing System or supporting infrastructure, or with the start-up or implementation of a new plant or of a new or substantially changed manufacturing process.

(1) When conducting an inspection outside the continental United States, the Postal Service will make every effort to combine the inspection with other inspections in the same general geographic area in order to enable affected PES Providers to share the costs. The Postal Service team conducting such inspections will be limited to the minimum number necessary to conduct the inspection. All air travel will be contracted for at the rates for official government business, when available, under such rules respecting class of travel as apply to those Postal Service representatives inspecting the facility at the time the travel occurs.

(2) If political or other impediments prevent the Postal Service from conducting security evaluations of Postage Evidencing System facilities in foreign countries, Postal Service approval of the activities conducted in such facilities may be suspended until such time as satisfactory inspections may be conducted.

(f) The Postal Service office responsible for administration of this part is the Office of Commercial Payment or successor organization. All submissions to the Postal Service required or invited by this part are to be made to this office in person or via mail to 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW, Room 3500, Washington, DC 20260-0004.
