
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter G - Postage Programs
#### PART 501 - AUTHORIZATION TO MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTE POSTAGE EVIDENCING SYSTEMS
##### ยง 501.7 Postage Evidencing System requirements.

(a) A Postage Evidencing System submitted to the Postal Service for approval must meet the requirements of the Intelligent Mail Indicia Performance Criteria (IMIPC) published by Commercial Payment. Copies of the current IMIPC may be requested via mail to the address in ยง 501.2(f).

(b) The provider must affix to all meters a cautionary message providing the meter user with basic reminders on leasing and meter movement.

(1) The cautionary message must be placed on all meters in a conspicuous and highly visible location. PROPERTY OF [NAME OF PROVIDER] as well as the provider's toll-free number must be emphasized by capitalized bold type and preferably printed in red. The minimum width of the message should be 3.25 inches, and the minimum height should be 1.75 inches. The message should read as follows:

(2) Exceptions to the formatting of the required message are determined on a case-by-case basis. Any deviation from standardized meter message requirements must be approved in writing by the Postal Service.

(c) The provider must ensure that any matter printed by a Postage Evidencing System, whether within the boundaries of the indicia or outside the clear zone as defined in DMM 604.4.0 and the Intelligent Mail Indicia Performance Criteria (IMI-PC), is:

(1) Consistent with the Postal Service's intent to maintain neutrality on religious, social, political, legal, moral, or other public issues;

(2) Is not obscene, deceptive, or defamatory of any person, entity, or group, and does not advocate unlawful action;

(3) Does not emulate any form of valid postage, government, or other official indicia, or payment of postage; and

(4) Does not harm the public image, reputation, or good will of the Postal Service and is not otherwise derogatory or detrimental to the interests of the Postal Service.

(d) Providers must also ensure that customers acknowledge, agree, and warrant in writing that:

(1) The customer bears full responsibility and liability for obtaining authorization to reproduce and otherwise use the matter as proposed (including, without limitation, any trademarks, slogans, likenesses or copyrighted material contained in the image);

(2) The customer in fact has the legal authority to reproduce and otherwise use the matter as proposed; and

(3) The customer understands that images or other matter is not provided, approved, or endorsed in any way by the Postal Service.
