
# Title 39 - Postal Service
## Chapter I - United States Postal Service
### Subchapter G - Postage Programs
#### PART 501 - AUTHORIZATION TO MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTE POSTAGE EVIDENCING SYSTEMS
##### ยง 501.15 Computerized Meter Resetting System.
###### Security and revenue protection.,Service

(i)To receive Postalapproval to continue to operate systems in the postage meters environment, the RC must submit to a periodic examination and provide a System and Organization Control (SOC) 1 Type II Report of its meter system and any other applications and technology infrastructure that may have a material impact on Postal Service revenues, as determined by the Postal Service. Additionally, RC must submit to a periodic examination and provide a SOC 2 Type II Report of its meter system data security, accuracy, processing integrity and data integrity for any applications, reports, and technology infrastructure that may have a material impact on the RC's reports, which the Postal Service relies upon. For the initial SOC 2 Type I report, the Postal Service will provide the control objectives by March 18, 2020. The due date for the initial SOC 2 Type I is July 1, 2020, with the SOC 2 Type II due on August 15, 2021. Both the SOC 1 and SOC 2 examinations shall be performed by a qualified, independent audit firm and shall be conducted in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAEs) No. 18, Service Organizations, developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), as amended or superseded. Expenses associated with such examination shall be incurred by the RC. The examination shall include testing of the operating effectiveness of relevant RC internal controls (SOC 1 Type II SSAE 18 & SOC 2 Type II SSAE 18 Reports). If the service organization uses another service organization (sub-service provider), the RC should consider the nature and materiality of the transactions and data processed by the sub-service organization and the contribution of the sub-service organization's processes and controls in the achievement of the Postal Service's control objectives. Resetting companies are expected to submit any request for changes to control objectives by December 31 of each year, which will be taken under consideration by the Postal Service for review and approval. The Postal Service will provide common control objectives to be covered by the SOC 1 Type II SSAE 18 by January 31 each year. As a result of the examination, the service auditor shall provide the RC and the Postal Service with an opinion on the design and operating effectiveness of the RC's internal controls related to the meter system and any other applications and technology infrastructure considered material to the services provided to the Postal Service by the RC. SOC 1 and SOC 2 examinations are to be conducted on no less than an annual basis, and are to be as of and for the 12 months ended June 30 of each year (except for new contracts for which the examination period will be no less than the period from the contract date to the following June 30, unless otherwise agreed to by the Postal Service). The SOC 1 and SOC 2 examination reports are to be provided to the Postal Service by August 15 of each year. To the extent that internal control weaknesses are identified in a SOC report, the Postal Service requires prompt communication and remediation of such weaknesses and shall have the right to review working papers and engage in discussions about the work performed with the service auditor. The Postal Service requires that all remediation efforts (if applicable) are completed and reported by the RC prior to the Postal Service's fiscal year end (September 30). In addition, the RC will be responsible for evaluating its internal control environment related to the meter system and any other applications and technology infrastructure considered material to the services provided to the Postal Service by the RC, in particular, disclosing changes to internal controls for the period of July 1 to September 30. This evaluation should be documented and submitted to the Postal Service by October 15 of each year. The RC will be responsible for all costs related to the examinations conducted by the service auditor and the RC.
