
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Appendix A to Part 225 - Alternate Foods for Meals

1. An alternate protein product used in meals planned under the provisions in ยง 225.16 must meet all of the criteria in this section.

2. An alternate protein product whether used alone or in combination with meat or other meat alternates must meet the following criteria:

a. The alternate protein product must be processed so that some portion of the non-protein constituents of the food is removed. These alternate protein products must be safe and suitable edible products produced from plant or animal sources.

b. The biological quality of the protein in the alternate protein product must be at least 80 percent that of casein, determined by performing a Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS).

c. The alternate protein product must contain at least 18 percent protein by weight when fully hydrated or formulated. ("When hydrated or formulated" refers to a dry alternate protein product and the amount of water, fat, oil, colors, flavors or any other substances which have been added).

d. Manufacturers supplying an alternate protein product to participating schools or institutions must provide documentation that the product meets the criteria in paragraphs A. 2. a through c of this appendix.

e. Manufacturers should provide information on the percent protein contained in the dry alternate protein product and on an as prepared basis.

f. For an alternate protein product mix, manufacturers should provide information on:

(1) The amount by weight of dry alternate protein product in the package;

(2) Hydration instructions; and

(3) Instructions on how to combine the mix with meat or other meat alternates.

1. Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use alternate protein products to fulfill all or part of the meat/meat alternate component discussed in ยง 225.20.

2. The following terms and conditions apply:

a. The alternate protein product may be used alone or in combination with other food ingredients. Examples of combination items are beef patties, beef crumbles, pizza topping, meat loaf, meat sauce, taco filling, burritos, and tuna salad.

b. Alternate protein products may be used in the dry form (nonhydrated), partially hydrated or fully hydrated form. The moisture content of the fully hydrated alternate protein product (if prepared from a dry concentrated form) must be such that the mixture will have a minimum of 18 percent protein by weight or equivalent amount for the dry or partially hydrated form (based on the level that would be provided if the product were fully hydrated).

Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use a commercially prepared meat or meat alternate products combined with alternate protein products or use a commercially prepared product that contains only alternate protein products.
