
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### Related to economic research and statistical reporting.

(8)(i) Conduct economic research on matters of importance to cooperatives as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627).

(ii) Conduct economic and social science research and analyses relating to:

(A) Food and agriculture situation and outlook;

(B) The production, marketing, and distribution of food and fiber products (excluding forest and forest products), including studies of the performance of the food and agricultural sector of the economy in meeting needs and wants of consumers;

(C) Basic and long-range, worldwide, economic analyses and research on supply, demand, and trade in food and fiber products and the effects on the U.S. food and agriculture system, including general economic analyses of the international financial and monetary aspects of agricultural affairs;

(D) Natural resources, including studies of the use and management of land and water resources, the quality of these resources, resource institutions, and watershed and river basin development problems; and

(E) Rural people and communities, as authorized by title II of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627), and the Act of June 29, 1935, as amended (7 U.S.C. 427).

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) Prepare crop and livestock estimates and administer reporting programs, including estimates of production, supply, price, and other aspects of the U.S. agricultural economy, collection of statistics, conduct of enumerative and objective measurement surveys, construction and maintenance of sampling frames, and related activities. Prepare reports of the Agricultural Statistics Board covering official state and national estimates (7 U.S.C. 476, 951, and 2204).

(v) Take such security precautions as are necessary to prevent disclosure of crop or livestock report information prior to the scheduled issuance time approved in advance by the Secretary of Agriculture and take such actions as are necessary to avoid disclosure of confidential data or information supplied by any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association (18 U.S.C. 1902, 1903, and 2072).

(vi) Improve statistics in the Department; maintain liaison with OMB and other Federal agencies for coordination of statistical methods and techniques.

(vii) Investigate and make findings as to the effect upon the production of food and upon the agricultural economy of any proposed action pending before the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for presentation in the public interest, before said Administrator, other agencies, or before the courts.

(viii) Review economic data and analyses used in speeches by Department personnel and in materials prepared for release through the press, radio, and television.

(ix) Coordinate all economic analysis and review all decisions involving substantial economic policy implications.

(x) Cooperate and work with national and international institutions and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research and extension activities to promote and support the development of a viable and sustainable global and agricultural system. Such work may be carried out by:

(A) Exchanging research materials and results with the institutions or persons;

(B) Engaging in joint or coordinated research;

(C) Entering into cooperative arrangements with Departments and Ministries of Agriculture in other nations to conduct research, extension; and education activities (limited to arrangements either involving no exchange of funds or involving disbursements by the agency to the institutions of other nations), and then reporting these arrangements to the Secretary of Agriculture;

(D) Stationing representatives at such institutions or organizations in foreign countries; or

(E) Entering into agreements with land-grant colleges and universities, other organizations, institutions, or individuals with comparable goals, and with the concurrence of the Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, international organizations (limited to agreements either involving no exchange of funds or involving disbursements by the agency to the cooperator), and then reporting these agreements to the Secretary of Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 3291(a)).

(xi) Collect and, not less frequently than once every 3 years report, data and analysis on farmland ownership, tenure, transition, and entry of beginning farmers and ranchers and socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2204i).

(xii) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research and statistical reporting programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318).

(xiii) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research and statistical reporting (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(xiv) Conduct surveys and analysis and publish reports relating to organic production, handling, distribution, retail, and trend studies (including consumer purchasing patterns); develop surveys and report statistical analysis on organically produced agricultural products (7 U.S.C. 5925c).

(xv) Assist the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs with respect to Dairy Product Mandatory Reporting (7 U.S.C. 1637-1637b).

(xvi) Include in each issuance of projections of net farm income an estimate of the net farm income earned by commercial producers in the United States that will in addition show the estimate of net farm income attributable to commercial producers of livestock, loan commodities, and agricultural commodities other than loan commodities (7 U.S.C. 7998).

(xvii) Ensure that studies carried out by the Economic Research Service document the number, location, and economic contributions of socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in agricultural production (7 U.S.C. 2279(h)).

(xviii) Coordinate implementation of section 10016 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding locally or regionally produced agricultural food products (7 U.S.C. 2204h).
