
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Assistance to States
####### ยง 226.4 Payments to States and use of funds.
######## Rate adjustments.

(i)FNS shall publish a notice in theto announce each rate adjustment. FNS shall adjust the following rates on the specified dates:

(1) The rates for meals, including snacks, served in tier I and tier II day care homes shall be adjusted annually, on July 1 (beginning July 1, 1997), on the basis of changes in the series for food at home of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor. Such adjustments shall be rounded to the nearest lower cent based on changes measured over the most recent twelve-month period for which data are available. The adjustments shall be computed using the unrounded rate in effect for the preceding school year.

(2) The rates for meals, including snacks, served in child care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, adult day care centers and outside-school-hours care centers will be adjusted annually, on July 1, on the basis of changes in the series for food away from home of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor. Such adjustment must be rounded to the nearest lower cent, based on changes measured over the most recent twelve-month period for which data are available. The adjustment to the rates must be computed using the unrounded rate in effect for the preceding year.

(3) The rate for administrative payments to day care home sponsoring organizations shall be adjusted annually, on July 1, on the basis of changes in the series for all items of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor. Such adjustments shall be made to the nearest dollar based on changes measured over the most recent twelve-month period for which data are available.
