
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.22 Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.
###### Related to animal and plant health inspection.

(2)Exercise the functions of the Secretary of Agriculture under the following authorities:

(i) Administer the Foreign Service personnel system for employees of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 3922, except that this delegation does not include the authority to represent the Department of Agriculture in interagency consultations and negotiations with other foreign affairs agencies regarding joint regulations, nor the authority to approve joint regulations issued by the Department of State relating to administration of the Foreign Service;

(ii) The Terminal Inspection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 7760);

(iii) The Honeybee Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 281-286);

(iv) Section 18 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, as it pertains to the issuance of certificates of condition of live animals intended and offered for export (21 U.S.C. 618);

(v) The responsibilities of the United States under the International Plant Protection Convention;

(vi) (Laboratory) Animal Welfare Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131-2159);

(vii) Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1821-1831);

(viii) 28 Hour Law, as amended (49 U.S.C. 80502);

(ix) Export Animal Accommodation Act, as amended (46 U.S.C. 3901-3902);

(x) Purebred Animal Duty Free Entry Provisions of Tariff Act of June 17, 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202, part 1, Item 100.01);

(xi) Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159).

(xii) Conduct diagnostic and related activities necessary to prevent, detect, control or eradicate foot-and-mouth disease and other foreign animal diseases (21 U.S.C. 113a);

(xiii) The Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, sections 203, 205, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1622, 1624), with respect to voluntary inspection and certification of animal products; inspection, testing, treatment, and certification of animals; and a program to investigate and develop solutions to the problems resulting from the use of sulfonamides in swine;

(xiv) Talmadge Aiken Act (7 U.S.C. 1633) with respect to cooperation with States in control and eradication of plant and animal diseases and pests;

(xv) The Federal Noxious Weed Act of 1974, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2801 note; 2814).

(xvi) The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1544);

(xvii) Executive Order 11987, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 116;

(xviii) Section 101(d), Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 398);

(xix) The Swine Health Protection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3801-3813);

(xx) Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3371-3378);

(xxi) Title III (and title IV to the extent that it relates to activities under title III,) of the Federal Seed Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1581-1610);

(xxii) Authority to prescribe the amounts of commuted traveltime allowances and the circumstances under which such allowances may be paid to employees covered by the Act of August 28, 1950 (7 U.S.C. 2260);

(xxiii) The Act of March 2, 1931 (7 U.S.C. 8351-8352);

(xxiv) The Act of December 22, 1987 (7 U.S.C. 8353);

(xxv) Authority to work with developed and transitional countries on agricultural and related research and extension, with respect to animal and plant health, including providing technical assistance, training, and advice to persons from such countries engaged in such activities and the stationing of scientists of national and international institutions in such countries (7 U.S.C. 3291(a)(3));

(xxvi) Authority to prescribe and collect fees under the Act of August 31, 1951, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9701), and sections 2508 and 2509 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (21 U.S.C. 136, 136a), as amended;

(xxvii) The provisions of 35 U.S.C. 156;

(xxviii) Enter into cooperative research and development agreements with industry, universities, and others; institute a cash award program to reward scientific, engineering, and technical personnel; award royalties to inventors; and retain and use royalty income (15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c); and

(xxix) The Alien Species Prevention and Enforcement Act of 1992 (39 U.S.C. 3015 note).

(xxx) Sections 901-905 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note).

(xxxi) Plant Protection Act (Title IV, Pub. L. 106-224, 114 Stat. 438, 7 U.S.C. 7701-7772).

(xxxii) Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8301-8317).

(xxxiii) Section 10504 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8318).

(xxxiv) Title V of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 2279e and 2279f).

(xxxv) The responsibilities of the United States related to activities of the Office of International des Epizooties.

(xxxvi) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(xxxvii) Section 7524 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (21 U.S.C. 113a note), except for the suspension, revocation, or other impairment of a permit issued under that section.

(xxxviii) Section 10202 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 7761).

(xxxix) Section 10204 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 7701 note).

(xl) Section 14216 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246).

(xli) Section 1672(g)(3) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)(3)) regarding honey bee pest, pathogen, health, and population status surveillance.

(xlii) Section 12309 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding produce represented as grown in the United States (19 U.S.C. 1304a).

(xliii) Section 11013 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8322).

(xliv) In coordination with the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation, Section 2408 relating to the Feral Swine Eradication and Control Pilot Program (7 U.S.C. 8351 note),

(xlv) Section 12203(b) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 relating to diseases and pests of concern (7 U.S.C. 8914(b)).

(xlvi) Section 12601 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 relating to baiting of migratory game birds (16 U.S.C. 704 note).
