
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 226.6 State agency administrative responsibilities.
######## Application procedures for renewing institutions.

(2)Each State agency must establish application procedures to determine the eligibility of renewing institutions under this part. Renewing institutions must not be required to submit a free and reduced-price policy statement or a nondiscrimination statement unless they make substantive changes to either statement. The State agency must require each renewing institution participating in the Program to reapply for participation at a time determined by the State agency, except that no institution may be allowed to participate for less than 12 or more than 36 calendar months under an existing application, except when the State agency determines that unusual circumstances warrant reapplication in less than 12 months. The State agency must establish factors, consistent with ยง 226.16(b)(1), that it will consider in determining whether a renewing sponsoring organization has sufficient staff to perform required monitoring responsibilities at all of its sponsored facilities. As part of the review of the renewing sponsoring organization's management plan, the State agency must determine the appropriate level of staffing for the sponsoring organization, consistent with the staffing range of monitors set forth at ยง 226.16(b)(1) and the factors it has established. The State agency must ensure that each currently participating sponsoring organization meets this requirement no later than July 29, 2003. At a minimum, the application review procedures established by the State agency must require that renewing institutions submit information to the State agency in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. In addition, the State agency's application review procedures must ensure that the following information is included in a renewing institution's application:
