
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### Related to human resources management.

(4)(i) Formulate and issue Department policy, standards, rules, and regulations relating to human resources management.

(ii) Provide human resources management procedural guidance and operational instructions.

(iii) Set standards for human resources data systems.

(iv) Inspect and evaluate human resources management operations and issue instructions or take direct action to insure conformity with appropriate laws, Executive Orders, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) rules and regulations, and other appropriate rules and regulations.

(v) Exercise final authority in all human resources matters, including individual cases, that involve the jurisdiction of more than one General Officer or agency head, or otherwise as deemed appropriate.

(vi) Receive, review, and recommend action on all requests for the Secretary's approval in human resources matters.

(vii) Authorize and make final decisions on adverse actions, except in those cases where the Assistant Secretary for Administration has participated.

(viii) Represent the Department in human resources matters in all contacts outside the Department.

(ix) Exercise specific authorities in the following operational matters:

(A) Waive repayment of training expenses where an employee fails to fulfill service agreement.

(B) Establish or change standards and plans for awards to private citizens.

(C) Execute, change, extend, or renew:
