
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### 2

() Certifications of supervisory/managerial and non-labor union employee and professional organizations or associations.

(D) Represent the Department in contacts with the national offices of labor organizations in fulfilling the Department's national consultation obligations under 5 U.S.C. 7113.

(E) Change a position (with no material change in duties) from one pay system to another.

(F) Grant restoration rights, and release employees with administrative reemployment rights.

(G) Authorize any mass dismissals of employees in the Washington, DC, metropolitan area.

(H) Approve "normal line of promotion" cases in the excepted service where not in accordance with time-in-grade criteria.

(I) Make the final decision on all classification appeals filed with the Department of Agriculture.

(J) Authorize all employment actions (except nondisciplinary separations and LWOP) and classification actions for senior level and equivalent positions including Senior Executive Service positions and special authority professional and scientific positions responsible for carrying out research and development functions.

(K) Authorize all employment actions (except LWOP) for the following positions:
