
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 226.6 State agency administrative responsibilities.
######## Alternate approval procedures.

(4)Each State agency shall establish procedures to review information submitted by institutions for centers or homes for which licensing or approval is not available in order to establish eligibility for the Program. Licensing or approval is not available when (i) no Federal, State, or local licensing/approval standards have been established for child care centers, or day care homes; or (ii) no mechanism exists to determine compliance with licensing/approval standards. In these situations, independent centers, and sponsoring organizations on behalf of their facilities, may choose to demonstrate compliance with either CACFP child care standards, applicable State child care standards, or applicable local child care standards. State agencies shall provide information about applicable State child care standards and CACFP child care standards to institutions, but may require institutions electing to demonstrate compliance with applicable local child care standards to identify and submit these standards. The State agency may permit independent centers, and sponsoring organizations on behalf of their facilities, to submit self-certification forms, and may grant approval without first conducting a compliance review at the center or facility. But the State agency shall require submission of health/sanitation and fire/safety permits or certificates for all independent centers and facilities seeking alternate child care standards approval. Compliance with applicable child care standards are subject to review in accordance with ยง 226.6(o).
