
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 226.6 State agency administrative responsibilities.
######## Commodity distribution.

(h)The State agency must require new institutions to state their preference to receive commodities or cash-in-lieu of commodities when they apply, and may periodically inquire as to participating institutions' preference to receive commodities or cash-in-lieu of commodities. State agencies must annually provide institutions with information on foods available in plentiful supply, based on information provided by the Department. Each institution electing cash-in-lieu of commodities shall receive such payments. Each institution which elects to receive commodities shall have commodities provided to it unless the State agency, after consultation with the State commodity distribution agency, demonstrates to FNS that distribution of commodities to the number of such institutions would be impracticable. The State agency may then, with the concurrence of FNS, provide cash-in-lieu of commodities for all institutions. A State agency request for cash-in-lieu of all commodities shall be submitted to FNS not later than May 1 of the school year preceding the school year for which the request is made. The State agency shall, by June 1 of each year, submit a list of institutions which have elected to receive commodities to the State commodity distribution agency, unless FNS has approved a request for cash-in-lieu of commodities for all institutions. The list shall be accompanied by information on the average daily number of lunches and suppers to be served to participants by each such institution.
