
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### 3

() Administrative Law Judge.

(L) Authorize and make final decisions on adverse actions for positions in GS-1-15 or equivalent.

(M) Authorize and make final decisions on adverse actions for positions in the career Senior Executive Service or equivalent.

(N) Approve the details of Department employees to the White House.

(O) Authorize adverse actions based in whole or in part on an allegation of violation of 5 U.S.C. chapter 73, subchapter III, for employees in the excepted service.

(P) Authorize long-term training in programs which require Departmentwide competition.

(Q) Initiate and take adverse action in cases involving a violation of the merit system.

(R) Any other human resources operational matter.

(x) As used in this section, the term human resources includes:

(A) Position management.

(B) Position classification.

(C) Employment.

(D) Pay administration.

(E) Automation of human resources data and systems.

(F) Hours of duty.

(G) Performance management.

(H) Promotions.

(I) Employee development.

(J) Incentive Programs.

(K) Leave.

(L) Retirement.

(M) Human resources program management accountability and evaluation.

(N) Social security.

(O) Life insurance.

(P) Health benefits.

(Q) Unemployment compensation.

(R) Labor management relations.

(S) Intramanagement consultation.

(T) [Reserved]

(U) Discipline.

(V) Appeals.

(W) Drug Testing Program.

(X) Worklife Program.

(Y) Transit Subsidy Program.

(xi) Maintain, review, and update Departmental delegations of authority.

(xii) Authorize organizational changes.

(xiii) Formulate and promulgate departmental organizational objectives and policies.

(xiv) Approve coverage and waiver of individual law enforcement and firefighter positions under the special retirement provisions of the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees Retirement System.

(xv) Provide for diversity and inclusion, as follows:

(A) Establish, direct, and provide policy and oversight for a Departmentwide Special Emphasis Program (SEP) including: Women, African Americans, Hispanics, Asian/Pacific Islanders, Native Americans, Disabled, and Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual/Transgender.

(B) Provide oversight and support for Departmental SEP recognition programs.

(C) Direct and oversee the Department-wide SEPM Council.

(D) Administer Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program.

(xvi) Oversee and manage the Department's administrative grievance program.

(xvii) Make final decisions in those cases where an agency head has appealed the recommended decision of a grievance examiner.

(xviii) Administer the administrative appeals process related to the inclusion of positions in the testing designated position listing in the Department's Drug-Free Workplace Program and designate the final appeal officer for that Program.

(xix) Formulate and issue Department policy, standards, rules, and regulations relating to the Senior Scientific Research Service (7 U.S.C. 7657).

(xx) Provide human resources operational services for the following:

(A) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(B) The general officers of the Department.

(C) The offices and agencies reporting to the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(D) The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights.

(E) Any other offices or agencies of the Department as may be agreed.

(xxi) Redelegate, as appropriate, any authority delegated under paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(xx) to general officers of the Department and heads of Departmental agencies.

(xxii) Exercise the authority to noncompetitively convert to an appointment in the competitive service a recent graduate or student who is a United States citizen and has been awarded and successfully completed a scholarship program granted to the individual by the Department through the 1890 National Scholars Program or the 1994 Tribal Scholars Program, provided the individual meets the requirements for such conversion and meets Office of Personnel Management qualification standards, as determined by the Assistant Secretary for Administration (7 U.S.C. 2279j).
