
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### et seq.

(H) Implementation of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601,).

(I) Development and implementation of sustainable operations actions including establishing and achieving greenhouse gas emission reduction goals, reducing energy intensity, increasing renewable energy use, increasing water efficiency, reducing petroleum use and increasing alternative fuel use, increasing recycling and waste diversion, preventing pollution, reducing use of toxic chemicals, procuring sustainable products and services, achieving sustainable principles for new and existing buildings, promoting electronic stewardship, and continuing environmental management system use. Maintain liaison with the Office of the Federal Environmental Executive, the Council on Environmental Quality, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Department of Energy, and other Government agencies in these matters.

(J)-(K) [Reserved]

(L) Implementation of the policies and procedures set forth in OMB Circular No. A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities.

(iii) Exercise the following special authorities:

(A) Designate the Departmental Debarring Officer to perform the functions of 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4 related to procurement activities, except for commodity acquisitions on behalf of the Commodity Credit Corporation (7 CFR part 1407); with authority to redelegate suspension and debarment authority for contracts awarded under the School Lunch and Surplus Removal Programs (42 U.S.C. 1755 and 7 U.S.C. 612c).

(B) Conduct liaison with the Office of the Federal Register (1 CFR part 16) including the making of required certifications pursuant to 1 CFR part 18.

(C) Maintain custody and permit appropriate use of the official seal of the Department.

(D) Establish policy for the use of the official flags of the Secretary and the Department.

(E) Coordinate collection and disposition of personal property of historical significance.

(F) Make information returns to the Internal Revenue Service as prescribed by 26 U.S.C. 6050M and by 26 CFR 1.6050M-1 and such other Treasury regulations, guidelines or procedures as may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6050M. This includes making such verifications or certifications as may be required by 26 CFR 1.6050M-1 and making the election allowed by 26 CFR 1.6050M-1(d)(5)(1).

(G) Promulgate regulations for the management of contracting and procurement for information technology and telecommunication equipment, software, services, maintenance and related supplies.

(H) Represent the Department in working with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the General Services Administration, OMB, and other organizations or agencies on matters related to assigned responsibilities.

(I) Serve as the designated Chief Acquisition Officer for the Department pursuant to section 1702 of title 41, United States Code.

(iv) Serve as the Acquisition Executive in the Department to integrate and unify the management process for the Department's major system acquisitions and to monitor implementation of the policies and practices set forth in OMB Circular No. A-109, Major Systems Acquisitions. This includes the authority to:

(A) Ensure that OMB Circular No. A-109 is effectively implemented in the Department and that the management objectives of the Circular are realized.

(B) Review the program management of each major system acquisition.

(C) Designate the program manager for each major systems acquisition.

(D) Designate any Departmental acquisition as a major system acquisition under OMB Circular No. A-109.

(v) Pursuant to Executive Order 12931, "Federal Procurement Reform," 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 925, and sections 16, 22, and 37 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended, 41 U.S.C. 414, 418b, and 433, designate the Senior Procurement Executive for the Department and delegate responsibility for the following:

(A) Prescribing and publishing Departmental acquisition policies, advisories, regulations, and procedures.

(B) Taking any necessary actions consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures with respect to purchases, contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.

(C) Designating contracting officers.

(D) Establishing clear lines and limitations of contracting authority through written delegations of authority.

(E) Approving any Departmental and component agency procurement systems and processes.

(F) Managing and enhancing career development of the Department's acquisition workforce.

(G) Participating in the development of Governmentwide procurement policies, regulations, and standards, and determining specific areas where Governmentwide performance standards should be established and applied.

(H) Developing unique Departmental standards as required.

(I) Overseeing the development of procurement goals, guidelines, and innovation.

(J) Measuring and evaluating procurement office performance against stated goals.

(K) Advising the Secretary whether goals are being achieved.

(L) Prescribing standards for agency Procurement Executives.

(M) Redelegating, suspending, or revoking, as appropriate, the authority in paragraph (a)(6)(v)(A) of this section to agency Procurement Executives or other qualified agency officials with no power of further redelegation.

(N) Redelegating, suspending, or revoking, as appropriate, the authorities in paragraphs (a)(6)(v)(B), (C), (D), (F), and (G) of this section to agency Procurement Executives or other qualified agency officials with the power of further redelegation.

(vi) Represent the Department in establishing standards for acquisition transactions within the electronic data interchange environment.

(vii) Designate the Departmental Task Order Ombudsman pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 253j.

(viii) Designate the Departmental Remedy Coordination Official pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 255 to determine whether payment to any contractor should be reduced or suspended based on substantial evidence that the request of the contractor for advance, partial, or progress payment is based on fraud.
