
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### et seq.

(B) Any Institutions eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321,) including Tuskegee University.

(C) Any Hispanic-serving Institutions (as defined in sections 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)).

(xii) Make available to organizations excess or surplus computers or other technical equipment of the Department for the purpose of distribution to cities, towns, or local government entities in rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2206b).

(xiii) Issue regulations and directives to implement or supplement the Federal Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR Chapters 1 and 4).

(xiv) Issue regulations and directives to implement or supplement the Federal Property Management Regulations (41 CFR chapter 101) and the Federal Management Regulation (41 CFR chapter 102).

(xv) Serve as USDA Senior Sustainability Officer under Executive Order 13514, "Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance" (74 FR 52117, Oct. 8, 2009) responsible for developing and achieving greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, developing and implementing a Strategic Sustainability Performance Plan, achieving sustainable practice goals in Executive Order 13423, "Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management," 3 CFR, 2007 Comp., p. 191, and reporting USDA's progress to OMB and the Council on Environmental Quality.
