
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - State Agency Provisions
####### § 226.6 State agency administrative responsibilities.
######## Sponsoring organization agreement.

(p)Each State agency shall develop and provide for the use of a standard form of written permanent agreement between each day care home sponsoring organization and all day care homes participating in the Program under such organization. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the ability of the sponsoring organization to suspend or terminate the permanent agreement in accordance with § 226.16(l). The State agency must also include in this agreement its policy to restrict transfers of day care homes between sponsoring organizations. The policy must restrict the transfers to no more frequently than once per year, except under extenuating circumstances, such as termination of the sponsoring organization's agreement or other circumstances defined by the State agency. However, the State agency may, at the request of the sponsor, approve an agreement developed by the sponsor. State agencies may develop a similar form for use between sponsoring organizations and other types of facilities.

(q) Following its reviews of institutions and facilities under §§ 226.6(m) and 226.23(h) conducted prior to July 1, 1988, the State agency shall report data on key elements of program operations on a form designated by FNS. These key elements include but are not limited to the program areas of meal requirements, determination of eligibility for free and reduced price meals, and the accuracy of reimbursement claims. These forms shall be submitted within 90 days of the completion of the data collection for the institutions except that, if the State has elected to conduct reviews of verification separate from its administrative reviews, the State shall retain data until all key elements have been reviewed and shall report all data for each institution on one form within 90 days of the completion of the data collection for all key elements for that institution. States shall ensure that all key element data for an institution is collected during a 12-month period.
