
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Payment Provisions
####### ยง 226.13 Food service payments to sponsoring organizations for day care homes.

(a) Payments shall be made only to sponsoring organizations operating under an agreement with the State agency for the meal types specified in the agreement served to enrolled nonresident children and eligible enrolled children of day care home providers, at approved day care homes.

(b) Each sponsoring organization shall report each month to the State agency the total number of meals, by type (breakfasts, lunches, suppers, and snacks) and by category (tier I and tier II), served to children enrolled in approved day care homes. Prior to submitting its consolidated monthly claim to the State agency, each sponsoring organization must conduct reasonable edit checks on the day care homes' meal claims which, at a minimum, include those edit checks specified at ยง 226.10(c).

(c) Each sponsoring organization shall receive payment for meals served to children enrolled in approved day care homes at the tier I and tier II reimbursement rates, as applicable based on daily meal counts taken in the home, and as established by law and adjusted in accordance with ยง 226.4. However, the rates for lunches and suppers shall be reduced by the value of commodities established under ยง 226.5(b) for all sponsoring organizations for day care homes which have elected to receive commodities. For tier I day care homes, the full amount of food service payments shall be disbursed to each day care home on the basis of the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children. For tier II day care homes, the full amount of food service payments shall be disbursed to each day care home on the basis of the number of meals served to enrolled children by type, and by category (tier I and tier II) as determined in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section. However, the sponsoring organization may withhold from Program payments to each home an amount equal to costs incurred for the provision of Program foodstuffs or meals by the sponsoring organization on behalf of the home and with the home provider's written consent.

(d) As applicable, each sponsoring organization for day care homes shall:

(1) Require that tier I day care homes submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children.

(2) Require that tier II day care homes in which the provider elects not to have the sponsoring organization identify enrolled children who are eligible for free or reduced price meals submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children.

(3) Not more frequently than annually, select one of the methods described in paragraphs (d)(3) (i)-(iii) of this section for all tier II day care homes in which the provider elects to have the sponsoring organization identify enrolled children who are eligible for free or reduced price meals. In such homes, the sponsoring organization shall either:

(i) Require that such day care homes submit the number and types of meals served each day to each enrolled child by name. The sponsoring organization shall use the information submitted by the homes to produce an actual count, by type and by category (tier I and tier II), of meals served in the homes; or

(ii) Establish claiming percentages, not less frequently than semiannually, for each such day care home on the basis of one month's data concerning the number of enrolled children determined eligible for free or reduced-price meals. Sponsoring organizations shall obtain one month's data by collecting either enrollment lists (which show the name of each enrolled child in the day care home), or attendance lists (which show, by days or meals, the rate of participation of each enrolled child in the day care home). The State agency may require a sponsoring organization to recalculate the claiming percentage for any of its day care homes before the required semiannual calculation if the State agency has reason to believe that a home's percentage of income-eligible children has changed significantly or was incorrectly established in the previous calculation. Under this system, day care homes shall be required to submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children; or

(iii) Determine a blended per-meal rate of reimbursement, not less frequently than semiannually, for each such day care home by adding the products obtained by multiplying the applicable rates of reimbursement for each category (tier I and tier II) by the claiming percentage for that category, as established in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section. The State agency may require a sponsoring organization to recalculate the blended rate for any of its day care homes before the required semiannual calculation if the State agency has reason to believe that a home's percentage of income-eligible children has changed significantly or was incorrectly established in the previous calculation. Under this system, day care homes shall be required to submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children.
