
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### Related to occupational safety and health.

(xviii)(A) Establish Departmentwide safety and health policy and provide leadership in the development, coordination, and implementation of related standards, techniques, and procedures, and represent the Department in complying with laws, Executive Orders and other policy and procedural issuances related to occupational safety and health and workers' compensation programs within the Department.

(B) Represent the Department in all rulemaking, advisory, or legislative capacities on any groups, committees, or Governmentwide activities that affect the Department's Occupational Safety and Health Management Program; and serve as the USDA Designated Safety and Health Official.

(C) Determine and provide Departmentwide technical services and regional staff support for the safety and health programs.

(D) Administer the computerized management information systems for the collection, processing and dissemination of data related to the Department's occupational safety and health programs.

(E) Administer the Department's Occupational Health and Preventive Medicine Program, as well as design and operate employee assistance and workers' compensation activities.

(F) Provide education and training on a Departmentwide basis for safety and health-related issues and develop resource and operational manuals.

(xix) In coordination with the Chief Financial Officer, implement the debarment authorities in section 14211 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2009j), in connection with procurement activities.

(xx) Provide services, including procurement of supplies, services, and equipment, with authority to take actions required by law or regulation to perform such services for:

(A) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(B) The general officers of the Department, except the Inspector General.

(C) Any other offices or agencies of the Department as may be agreed, including as a Working Capital Fund activity.

(7) [Reserved]
