
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Payment Provisions
####### ยง 226.12 Administrative payments to sponsoring organizations for day care homes.
######## Start-up and expansion payments.

(b)(1) Prospective sponsoring organizations of day care homes, participating sponsoring organizations of child care centers or outside-school-hours care centers, independent centers, and participating sponsoring organizations of less than 50 homes which meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be entitled to receive start-up payments to develop or expand successful Program operations in day care homes. Participating sponsoring organizations of day care homes which meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be entitled to receive expansion payments to initiate or expand Program operations in day care homes in low-income or rural areas. The State agency shall approve start-up payments only once for any eligible sponsoring organization, but may approve expansion payments for any eligible sponsoring organization more than once, provided that: the request must be for expansion into an area(s) other than that specified in their initial or prior request; and 12 months has elapsed since the sponsoring organization has satisfied all obligations under its initial or prior expansion agreement. Eligible sponsoring organizations which have received start-up payments shall be eligible to apply for expansion payments at a date no earlier than 12 months after it has satisfied all its obligations under its start-up agreement with the State agency.

(2) Sponsoring organizations which apply for start-up or expansion payments shall evidence:

(i) Public status or tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;

(ii) An organizational history of managing funds and ongoing activities (i.e., administering public or private programs);

(iii) An acceptable and realistic plan for recruiting day care homes to participate in the Program (such as the method of contacting providers), which may be based on estimates of the number of day care homes to be recruited and information supporting their existence, and in the case of sponsoring organizations applying for expansion payments, documentation that the day care homes to be recruited are located in low-income or rural areas; and

(iv) An acceptable preliminary sponsoring organization management plan including, but not limited to, plans for preoperational visits and training.

(3) The State agency shall deny start-up and expansion payments to applicant sponsoring organizations which fail to meet the criteria of paragraph (b)(2) of this section or which have not been financially responsible in the operation of other programs funded by Federal, State, or local governments. The State agency shall notify the sponsoring organization of the reasons for denial and allow the sponsoring organization full opportunity to submit evidence on appeal as provided for in ยง 226.6(k). Any sponsoring organization applying for start-up or expansion funds shall be notified of approval or disapproval by the State agency in writing within 30 calendar days of filing a complete and correct application. If a sponsoring organization submits an incomplete application, the State agency shall notify the sponsoring organization within 15 calendar days of receipt of the application and shall provide technical assistance, if necessary, to the sponsoring organization for the purpose of completing its application.

(4) Sponsoring organizations which apply for and meet the criteria for start-up or expansion payments shall enter into an agreement with the State agency. The agreement shall specify:

(i) Activities which the sponsoring organization will undertake to initiate or expand Program operations in day care homes;

(ii) The amount of start-up or expansion payments to be issued to the sponsoring organization, together with an administrative budget detailing the costs which the sponsoring organization shall incur, document, and claim;

(iii) The time allotted to the sponsoring organization for the initiation or expansion of Program operations in family day care homes;

(iv) The responsibility of the applicant sponsoring organization to repay, upon demand by the State agency, start-up or expansion payments not expended in accordance with the agreement.

(5) Upon execution of the agreement, the State agency shall issue a start-up or expansion payment to the sponsoring organization in an amount equal to not less than one, but not more than two month's anticipated administrative reimbursement to the sponsoring organization as determined by the State agency. However, no sponsoring organization may receive start-up or expansion payments for more than 50 day care homes. Eligible sponsoring organizations with fewer than 50 homes under their jurisdiction at the time of application for start-up payments may receive such payments for up to 50 homes, less the number of homes under their jurisdiction. Eligible sponsoring organizations applying for expansion funds may receive at a maximum such payments for up to 50 homes at the currently assigned administrative payment for the first 50 homes. In determining the amount of start-up or expansion payments to be made to a sponsoring organization, the State agency shall consider the anticipated level of start-up or expansion costs to be incurred by the sponsoring organization and alternate sources of funds available to the sponsoring organization.

(6) Upon expiration of the time allotted to the sponsoring organization for initiating or expanding Program operations in day care homes, the State agency shall obtain and review documentation of activities performed and costs incurred by the sponsoring organization under the terms of the start-up or expansion agreement. If the sponsoring organization has not made every reasonable effort to carry out the activities specified in the agreement, the State agency shall demand repayment of all or part of the payment. The sponsoring organization may retain start-up or expansion payments for all day care homes which initiate Program operations. However, no sponsoring organization may retain any start-up or expansion payments in excess of its actual costs for the expenditures specified in the agreement.
