
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### Related to homeland security.

(8)(i) Serve as the principal advisor to the Secretary on national security, including emergency management, agriculture and food defense, and foreign investments in U.S. agriculture.

(ii) Coordinate activities of the Department, including policies, processes, budget needs, and oversight relating to national security, including emergency management, biodefense, agriculture and food defense, and foreign investments in U.S. agriculture.

(iii) Act as the primary liaison on behalf of the Department with other Federal departments and agencies in activities relating to national security, including emergency management, integrated laboratory networks, agriculture and food defense, foreign investments in U.S. agriculture, national intelligence collection priorities, and interagency coordination and data sharing.

(iv) Coordinate in the Department the gathering of information relevant to early warning and awareness of threats and risks to the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector; and share that information with, and provide assistance with interpretation and risk characterization of that information to, the intelligence community (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3003), law enforcement agencies, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and State fusion centers (as defined in section 210A(j) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124h(j)).

(v) Establish and maintain an effective defensive Counterintelligence Program to counter Foreign Intelligence Entity (FIE) threats to Departmental sensitive information and assets that includes identification and risk assessment to sensitive assets, development and implementation of mitigation strategies, integration of counter-FIE efforts across the Department, sharing of threat information and warnings, and promotion of counterintelligence training awareness.

(vi) Liaise with the Intelligence Community to assist in the development of periodic assessments and intelligence estimates, or other intelligence products, that support the defense of the food and agriculture critical infrastructure sector and risks associated with foreign investments in U.S. agriculture.

(vii) Coordinate the conduct, evaluation, and improvement of exercises to identify and eliminate gaps in preparedness and response.

(viii) Produce a Department-wide centralized strategic coordination plan to provide a high-level perspective of the operations of the Department relating to homeland and national security, including emergency management and agriculture and food defense.

(ix) Establish and carry out an interagency Agriculture and Food Threat Awareness Partnership Program, including by entering into cooperative agreements or contracts with Federal, State, or local authorities (7 U.S.C. 6922).

(x) Administer the Department's Emergency Preparedness Program. This includes:
