
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Operational Provisions
####### ยง 226.15 Institution provisions.
######## Day care home classifications.

(f)Each sponsoring organization of day care homes shall determine which of the day care homes under its sponsorship are eligible as tier I day care homes. A sponsoring organization may use current school or census data provided by the State agency or free and reduced price applications collected from day care home providers in making a determination for each day care home. When using school or census data for making tier I day care home determinations, a sponsoring organization shall first consult school data, except in cases in which busing or other bases of attendance, such as magnet or charter schools, result in school data not being representative of an attendance area's household income levels. In these cases, census data should generally be consulted instead of school data. A sponsoring organization may also use census data if, after reasonable efforts are made, as defined by the State agency, the sponsoring organization is unable to obtain local school attendance area information. A sponsoring organization may also consult census data after having consulted school data which fails to support a tier I day care home determination for rural areas with geographically large school attendance areas, for other areas in which a school's free and reduced price enrollment is above 40 percent, or in other cases with State agency approval. However, if a sponsoring organization believes that a segment of an otherwise eligible school attendance area is above the criteria for free or reduced price meals, then the sponsoring organization shall consult census data to determine whether the homes in that area qualify as tier I day care homes based on census data. If census data does not support a tier I classification, then the sponsoring organization shall reclassify homes in segments of such areas as tier II day care homes unless the individual providers can document tier I eligibility on the basis of their household income. When making tier I day care home determinations based on school data, a sponsoring organization shall use attendance area information that it has obtained, or verified with appropriate school officials to be current, within the last school year. Determinations of a day care home's eligibility as a tier I day care home shall be valid for one year if based on a provider's household income, five years if based on school data, or until more current data are available if based on census data. However, a sponsoring organization, State agency, or FNS may change the determination if information becomes available indicating that a home is no longer in a qualified area. The State agency shall not routinely require annual redeterminations of the tiering status of tier I day care homes based on updated school data.
