
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### et seq.,,et seq.

(xiii) Coordinate interaction between Department agencies and private sector businesses and industries in emergency planning and public education under Department authorities delegated or assigned under the National Response Framework, National Infrastructure Protection Plan, Defense Production Act of 1950, 50 U.S.C. App. 2061,and Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121,

(xiv) Oversee the Department's ability to collect and disseminate information and prepare for an agricultural disease emergency, agroterrorism act, or other threat to agricultural biosecurity, and coordinate such activities among agencies and offices within the Department (7 U.S.C. 8912).

(xv) Promulgate Departmental policies, standards, techniques, and procedures and represent the Department in providing security guidance to the Food and Agricultural Sector nationwide. This includes the following duties:

(A) Provide guidance to USDA agencies and the Food and Agricultural Sector in matters of security through use of assessments and development of mitigation strategies.

(B) Represent and act as liaison for the Department in contacts with other Federal security entities and organizations, including the Interagency Security Committee and the Department of Homeland Security.

(C) Provide guidance and direction to ensure agriculture/food security are fully integrated in USDA's security preparations, which are reported to and coordinated with the White House.

(D) Provide assistance to the USDA agencies in preparation for and during a disaster to identify critical assets and possible alternate storage locations.

(xvi) Provide oversight and coordination of the development and administration of the Department Continuity Program. This includes:

(A) Provide guidance and direction regarding continuity of operations to the Office of the Secretary, Departmental staff offices, mission areas, and agencies.

(B) Represent and act as liaison for the Department in contacts with other Federal entities and organizations concerning matters of assigned continuity program responsibilities.

(C) Oversee Department continuity of operations and emergency relocation facility planning, development, equipping, and preparedness to ensure that resources are in a constant state of readiness.

(xvii) Establish procedures to prevent unnecessary access to classified national security information (CNSI) including procedures that require that need for access to CNSI is established before initiating security clearance procedures; and ensure that the number of persons granted access CNSI is limited to the minimum consistent with operational and security requirements:

(A) Direct and administer USDA's CNSI program pursuant to E.O. 13526, "Classified National Security Information" (75 FR 707, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 298), or subsequent orders.

(B) Establish and maintain Information Security policies and procedures for classifying, declassifying, safeguarding, and disposing of CNSI and materials.

(C) Investigate or delegate authority to investigate any potential compromises of CNSI and take corrective action for violations or infractions under section 5.5(b), of E.O. 13526 or any subsequent order.

(D) Develop and maintain oversight of all facilities throughout USDA where CNSI is or will be safeguarded, discussed, or processed including sole authority to liaison with the Central Intelligence Agency concerning guidance, approval, requirements, and oversight of USDA secure facilities.

(xviii) Control within USDA the acquisition, use, and disposal of material and equipment that can be a source of ionizing radiation.

(A) Promulgate policies and procedures for ensuring the safety of USDA employees, the public, and the environment resulting from USDA's use of ionizing radiation sources.

(B) Maintain and ensure compliance with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations (Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations) and license(s) issued to USDA for the acquisition, use, and disposal of radioactive materials.

(xix) Provide administrative supervision to the unit that grants, denies, or revokes security clearances for USDA employees and contractors.
