
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Operational Provisions
####### § 226.16 Sponsoring organization provisions.
######## Imminent threat to health or safety.

(viii)Sponsoring organizations that discover in a facility conduct or conditions that pose an imminent threat to the health or safety of participating children or the public, must immediately notify the appropriate State or local licensing or health authorities and take action that is consistent with the recommendations and requirements of those authorities.

(5) For sponsoring organizations, as part of their monitoring of facilities, compliance with the household contact requirements established pursuant to § 226.6(m)(5) of this part.

(e) Each sponsoring organization shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in §§ 226.10(d) and 226.15(e) and any recordkeeping requirements established by the State agency in order to justify the administrative payments made in accordance with § 226.12(a). Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.

(f) The State agency may require a sponsoring organization to enter into separate agreements for the administration of separate types of facilities (child care centers, day care homes, adult day care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and outside-school-hours care centers).

(g) Each sponsoring organization electing to receive advance payments of program funds for day care homes shall disburse the full amount of such payments within five working days of receipt from the State agency. If the sponsor requests the full operating advance to which it is entitled, the advances to day care homes shall be the full amount which the sponsor expects the home to earn based on the number of meals projected to be served to enrolled children during the period covered by the advance multiplied by the applicable payment rate as specified in § 226.13(c). If a sponsor elects to receive only a part of the operating advance to which it is entitled, or if the full operating advance is insufficient to provide a full advance to each home, the advance shall be disbursed to its homes in a manner and an amount the sponsor deems appropriate. Each sponsor shall disburse any reimbursement payments for food service due to each day care home within five working days of receipt from the State agency. Such payment shall be based on the number of meals served to enrolled children at each day care home, less any payments advanced to such home. However, the sponsoring organization may withhold from Program payments to each home an amount equal to food service operating costs incurred by the sponsoring organization in behalf of the home and with the home provider's written consent. If payments from the State agency are not sufficient to provide all day care homes under the sponsoring organization's jurisdiction with advance payments and reimbursement payments, available monies shall be used to provide all due reimbursement payments before advances are disbursed.

(h) Sponsoring organizations shall make payments of program funds to child care centers, adult day care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, or outside-school-hours care centers within five working days of receipt from the State agency, on the basis of the management plan approved by the State agency, and may not exceed the Program costs documented at each facility during any fiscal year; except in those States where the State agency has chosen the option to implement a meals times rates payment system. In those States which implement this optional method of reimbursement, such disbursements may not exceed the rates times the number of meals documented at each facility during any fiscal year.

(i) Disbursements of advance payments may be withheld from child and adult day care facilities which fail to submit reports required by § 226.15(e).

(j) A for-profit organization shall be eligible to serve as a sponsoring organization for for-profit centers which have the same legal identity as the organization, but shall not be eligible to sponsor for-profit centers which are legally distinct from the organization, day care homes, or public or private nonprofit centers.

(k) Before sponsoring organizations expend administrative funds to assist family day care homes in becoming licensed, they shall obtain the following information from each such home: a completed free and reduced price application which documents that the provider meets the Program's income standards; evidence of its application for licensing and official documentation of the defects that are impeding its licensing approval; and a completed CACFP application. These funding requests are limited to $300 per home and are only available to each home once.
