
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.24 Assistant Secretary for Administration.
###### Related to Office of Administrative Law Judges.

(12)(i) Assign, after appropriate consultation with other general officers, to the Office of Administrative Law Judges proceedings not subject to 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557, involving the holdings of hearings and performance of related duties pursuant to the applicable rules of practice, when the Assistant Secretary for Administration determines that because of the nature of the proceeding it would be desirable for the proceeding to be presided over by an Administrative Law Judge and that such duties and responsibilities would not be inconsistent with those of an Administrative Law Judge.

(ii) Provide administrative supervision of the Office of Administrative Law Judges.

(iii) Maintain overall responsibility and control over the Hearing Clerk's activities which include the custody of and responsibility for the control, maintenance, and servicing of the original and permanent records of all USDA administrative proceedings conducted under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557:

(A) Receiving, filing and acknowledging the receipt of complaints, petitions, answers, briefs, arguments, and all other documents that may be submitted to the Secretary or the Department of Agriculture in such proceedings.

(B) Receiving and filing complaints, notices of inquiry, orders to show cause, notices of hearing, designations of Administrative Law Judges or presiding officers, answers, briefs, arguments, orders, and all other documents that may be promulgated or issued by the Secretary or other duly authorized officials of the Department of Agriculture in such proceedings.

(C) Supervising the service upon the parties concerned of any documents that are required to be served, and where required, preserving proof of service.

(D) Keeping a docket record of all such documents and proceedings.

(E) Filing a stenographic record of each administrative hearing where a transcript is required.

(F) Preparing for certification and certifying under the Secretary's facsimile signature, material on file in the Hearing Clerk's office.

(G) Performing any other clerical duties with respect to the documents relative to such proceedings as may be required to be performed.

(H) Cooperating with the Office of Operations in the letting of contracts for stenographic and reporting services; and forwarding vouchers to appropriate agencies for payment.

(I) Receiving and compiling data, views or comments filed in response to notices of proposed standards or rules or regulations.

(J) Performing upon request the following services with respect to any hearings in such proceedings:
