
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Operational Provisions
####### § 226.19a Adult day care center provisions.

(a) Adult day care centers may participate in the Program either as independent centers or under the auspices of a sponsoring organization; provided, however, that public and private nonprofit centers shall not be eligible to participate in the Program under the auspices of a for-profit sponsoring organization. Adult day care centers participating as independent centers shall comply with the provisions of § 226.15.

(b) All adult day care centers, independent or sponsored, shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Adult day care centers shall provide a community-based group program designed to meet the needs of functionally impaired adults through an individual plan of care. Such a program shall be a structured, comprehensive program that provides a variety of health, social and related support services to enrolled adult participants.

(2) Adult day care centers shall provide care and services directly or under arrangements made by the agency or organization whereby the agency or organization maintains professional management responsibility for all such services.

(3) Adult day care centers shall have Federal, State or local licensing or approval to provide day care services to functionally impaired adults (as defined in § 226.2) or individuals 60 years of age or older in a group setting outside their home or a group living arrangement on a less than 24-hour basis. Adult day care centers which are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval may participate in the Program during the renewal process, unless the State agency has information which indicates that renewal will be denied.

(4) Except for for-profit centers, adult day care centers shall be public, or have tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(5) Each adult day care center participating in the Program must serve one or more of the following meal types-breakfast, lunch, supper, and snack. Reimbursement may not be claimed for more than two meals and one snack, or one snack and two meals, provided daily to each adult participant.

(6) Each adult day care center participating in the Program shall claim only the meal types specified in its approved application in accordance with the meal pattern requirements specified in § 226.20. Participating centers may not claim CACFP reimbursement for meals claimed under part C of title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965. Reimbursement may not be claimed for meals served to persons who are not enrolled, or for meals served to participants at any one time in excess of the center's authorized capacity, or for any meal served at a for-profit center during a calendar month when less than 25 percent of enrolled participants were title XIX or title XX beneficiaries. Menus and any other nutritional records required by the State agency shall be maintained to document compliance with such requirements.

(7) An adult day care center may obtain meals from a school food service facility, and the pertinent requirements of this part shall be embodied in a written agreement between the center and school. The center shall maintain responsibility for all Program requirements set forth in this part.

(8) Adult day care centers shall collect and maintain documentation of the enrollment of each adult participant including information used to determine eligibility for free and reduced price meals in accordance with § 226.23(e)(1).

(9) Each adult day care center must maintain daily records of time of service meal counts by type (breakfast, lunch, supper, and snacks) served to enrolled participants, and to adults performing labor necessary to the food service.

(10) Each adult day care center shall maintain records on the age of each enrolled person. In addition, each adult day care center shall maintain records which demonstrate that each enrolled person under the age of 60 meets the functional impairment eligibility requirements established under the definition of "functionally impaired adult" contained in this part. Finally, each adult day care center shall maintain records which document that qualified adult day care participants reside in their own homes (whether alone or with spouses, children or guardians) or in group living arrangements as defined in § 226.2.

(11) Each adult day care center must require key operational staff, as defined by the State agency, to attend Program training prior to the facility's participation in the Program, and at least annually thereafter, on content areas established by the State agency. Each meal service must be supervised by an adequate number of operational personnel who have been trained in Program requirements as outlined in this section.

(c) Each adult day care center shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in § 226.10(d), in paragraph (b) of this section and, if applicable, in § 226.15(e). Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.
