
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.25 Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights.
###### et seq.,

(iii) Actions to enforce Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681,prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex in USDA education programs and activities funded by the Department.

(iv) Actions to enforce the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6102, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of age in USDA programs and activities funded by the Department.

(v) Actions to enforce section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794, prohibiting discrimination against individuals with disabilities in USDA programs and activities funded or conducted by the Department.

(vi) Actions to enforce related Executive Orders, Congressional mandates, and other laws, rules, and regulations, as appropriate.

(2) Evaluate Departmental agency programs, activities, and impact statements for civil rights concerns.

(3) Analyze and evaluate program participation data and equal employment opportunity data, and make its analyses available to other appropriate Departmental entities, including the Office of Advocacy and Outreach and affected agencies and mission areas.

(4) Provide leadership and coordinate the Department-wide programs of public notification regarding the availability of USDA programs and employment opportunities on a nondiscriminatory basis.
