
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 226 - CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Operational Provisions
####### ยง 226.23 Free and reduced-price meals.
######## Verification procedures for pricing programs.

(2)(i) For pricing programs, in addition to the verification procedures described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, State agencies shall also conduct verification of the income information provided on the approved application for free and reduced price meals and, at State agency discretion, verification may also include confirmation of other information required on the application. However,

(A) If a SNAP, FDPIR or TANF case number is provided for a child, verification for such child shall include only confirmation that the child is included in a currently certified SNAP or FDPIR household or is a TANF recipient; or

(B) If a SNAP or FDPIR case number or SSI or Medicaid assistance identification number is provided for an adult, verification for such adult shall include only confirmation that the adult is included in a currently certified SNAP or FDPIR household or is currently certified to receive SSI or Medicaid benefits.

(ii) State agencies shall perform verification on a random sample of no less than 3 percent of the approved free and reduced price applications in an institution which is a pricing program.

(iii) Households shall be informed in writing that they have been selected for verification and they are required to submit the requested verification information to confirm their eligibility for free or reduced-price benefits by such date as determined by the State agency. Those households shall be informed of the type or types of information and/or documents acceptable to the State agency and the name and phone number of an official who can answer questions and assist the household in the verification effort.

(iv) Households of enrolled children selected for verification shall also be informed that if they are currently certified to participate in SNAP, FDPIR or TANF they may submit proof of that certification in lieu of income information. In those cases, such proof shall consist of a current "Notice of Eligibility" for SNAP, FDPIR or TANF benefits or equivalent official documentation issued by a SNAP, Indian Tribal Organization, or welfare office which shows that the children are members of households or assistance units currently certified to participate in SNAP, FDPIR or TANF. An identification card for any of these programs is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date. Households of enrolled adults selected for verification shall also be informed that if they are currently certified to participate in SNAP or FDPIR or SSI or Medicaid Programs, they may submit proof of that certification in lieu of income information. In those cases, such proof shall consist of:

(A) A current "Notice of Eligibility" for SNAP or FDPIR benefits or equivalent official documentation issued by a SNAP, Indian Tribal Organization, or welfare office which shows that the adult participant is a member of a household currently certified to participate in the SNAP Program or FDPIR. An identification card is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date; or

(B) Official documentation issued by an appropriate SSI or Medicaid office which shows that the adult participant currently receives SSI or Medicaid assistance. An identification card is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date. All households selected for verification shall be advised that failure to cooperate with verification efforts will result in a termination of benefits.

(v) Sources of information for verification may include written evidence, collateral contacts, and/or systems of records.
