
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.25 Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights.
###### Related to Alternative Dispute Resolution.

(21)

(i) Designate the senior official to serve as the Department Dispute Resolution Specialist pursuant to section 3 of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act, Public Law 101-552, as amended (5 U.S.C. 571 note), and provide leadership, direction, and coordination for the Department's conflict prevention and resolution activities.

(ii) Issue Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures relating to the use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) to resolve employment complaints and grievances, workplace disputes, program complaints alleging civil rights violations, and contract and procurement disputes.

(iii) Provide ADR services for:

(A) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(B) The general officers of the Department.

(C) The offices and agencies reporting to the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(D) Any other office or agency of the Department as may be agreed.

(iv) Develop and issue standards for mediators and other ADR neutrals utilized by the Department.

(v) Coordinate ADR activities throughout the Department.

(vi) Monitor agency ADR programs and report at least annually to the Secretary on the Department's ADR activities.

(22) Prepare, submit, and make publicly available the civil rights report required by section 14010 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2279-2).

(23) Redelegate, as appropriate, any authority delegated under paragraphs (a)(1) through (22) of this section to general officers of the Department and heads of Departmental agencies.

(24) Award grants and enter into cooperative agreements, as appropriate, under the following authorities only for the purpose of conducting outreach efforts in connection with the duties and powers delegated to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights under this section:

(i) Grants and cooperative agreements under section 2501(a)(3) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279(a)(3));

(ii) Cooperative agreements under section 1472(b) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318(b));

(iii) Grants and cooperative agreements under section 1472(c) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318(c));

(iv) Cooperative agreements under section 607(b)(4) of the Rural Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4)); and

(v) Cooperative agreements under section 714 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (7 U.S.C. 6962a).

(25) Carry out prize competition authorities in section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) related to functions otherwise delegated to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, except for authorities delegated to the Chief Financial Officer in ยง 2.28(a)(29) and authorities reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(26) As directed by section 12403(a) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, conduct civil rights impact analyses in accordance with Departmental Regulation 4300-004 issued on October 17, 2016, with respect to the Department's employment, federally conducted programs and activities, and federally assisted programs and activities.

(b) The following authorities are reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture:

(1) Approval of prize competitions that may result in the award of more than $1,000,000 in cash prizes under section 24(m)(4)(B) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719(m)(4)(B)).

(2) [Reserved]
