
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 227 - NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 227.5 Program funding.
######## Advances for the assessment and planning grant.

(2)FNS shall make advances to any State desiring to participate in the Program, to enable the State to carry out the responsibilities set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Advances shall be made in two phases, in accordance with the following procedures:

(i) Initially, State agencies may receive an advance up to $35,000 for the purpose of hiring a State coordinator, as provided for in ยง 227.30. Application for such an advance shall be made on Form AD-623 when the State agency applies for participation in the Program. The information required for this advance shall be set out in Part III, Budget Information, Section B, Budget Categories. The State agency shall there indicate the funds required for the salary, travel, and fringe benefits of the State Coordinator, and related personnel costs necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the State Coordinator.

(ii) After appointment of the State Coordinator, the State agency may receive an additional advance of up to 50 percent of the total grant to which the State agency is entitled for the first year of participation, after deduction of the advance made for the State Coordinator under ยง 227.5(b)(2), but not to exceed $100,000, for the purpose of undertaking a needs assessment in the State, developing a State Plan for nutrition education and training, and applying for the assessment and planning grant. Application for such advance shall be made by amending Part III, Budget Information, of Form AD-623.
