
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 227 - NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 227.30 Responsibilities of State agencies.
######## State Coordinator.

(c)After execution of the agreement the State agency shall appoint a nutrition education specialist to serve as a State Coordinator for the Program who may be employed on a full-time or part-time basis. The State Coordinator may be a State employee who reports directly or indirectly to the Chief State School Officer or an individual under contract with the State agency to serve as the State Coordinator. A State agency shall not contract with an organization to provide for the services of a State Coordinator. The State Coordinator, at a minimum, shall meet both of the following requirements:

(1) The State Coordinator shall have a Masters degree or equivalent experience. Equivalent experience is experience related to the position being filled or as defined by State civil service or personnel policies. If the Masters degree is not in foods and nutrition or dietetics, the Bachelors degree shall include academic preparations in foods and nutrition or dietetics.

(2) In addition, the State Coordinator shall have recognized and demonstrated skills in management and education through at least three years experience in one or more of these areas: Elementary or secondary education, but not limited to classroom teaching; foodservice management and training for adults; community nutrition or public health programs; foodservice operations for children; or community action or assistance programs.
