
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 227 - NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 227.30 Responsibilities of State agencies.
######## Records and reports.

(f)(1) Each State agency shall maintain full and complete records concerning Program operations and shall retain such records in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.

(2) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report, FNS-777, as required 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.

(3) Each State agency shall submit an annual performance report (Form FNS-42) to FNS within 30 days after the close of the Fiscal Year.

(4) Each State agency shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.

(5) Each State agency shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, for property management and the procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with these Program funds.

(6) Any income accruing to a State or local agency because of the Program shall be used in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
