
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 227 - NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Miscellaneous
####### ยง 227.40 Program information.

Persons desiring information concerning the program may write to the appropriate State agency or Regional Office of FNS as indicated below:

(a) In the States of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont: New England Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 33 North Avenue, Burlington, Mass. 01803.

(b) In the States of Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, Virgin Islands, and West Virginia: Mid-Atlantic Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, One Vahlsing Center, Robbinsville, N.J. 08691.

(c) In the States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee: Southeast Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1100 Spring Street NW., Atlanta, Ga. 30309.

(d) In the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin: Midwest Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 536 South Clark Street, Chicago, Ill. 60605.

(e) In the States of Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming: Mountain Plains Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 2420 West 26th Avenue, Room 430D, Denver, Colo. 80211.

(f) In the States of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas: Southwest Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1100 Commerce Street, Room 5-C-30, Dallas, Tex. 75242.

(g) In the States of Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Washington: Western Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 550 Kearny Street, Room 400, San Francisco, Calif. 94108.
