
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 235 - STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE FUNDS
###### ยง 235.4 Allocation of funds to States.
####### Nondiscretionary SAE Funds.

(a)For each fiscal year, FNS shall allocate the following:

(1) To each State which administers the National School Lunch, School Breakfast or Special Milk Programs an amount equal to one (1) percent of the funds expended by such State during the second preceding fiscal year under sections 4 and 11 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended, and sections 3, 4 and 17A of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended. However, the total amount allocated to any State under this paragraph shall not be less than $200,000 or the amount allocated to the State in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981, whichever is greater. On October 1, 2008 and each October 1 thereafter, the minimum dollar amount for a fiscal year for administrative costs shall be adjusted to reflect the percentage change between the value of the index for State and local government purchases, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the second preceding fiscal year, and the value of that index for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the preceding fiscal year.

(2) To each State which administers the Child and Adult Care Food Program an amount equal to the sum of: Twenty percent of the first $50,000; ten percent of the next $100,000; five percent of the next $250,000; and two and one-half percent of any remaining funds expended within the State under section 17 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended, during the second preceding fiscal year. FNS may adjust the amount of any such allocation in accordance with changes in the size of the Child and Adult Care Food Program in a State.

(3) For each of fiscal years 2005 through 2007 no State shall receive less than its fiscal year 2004 allocation for administrative costs for all child nutrition programs.
