
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 235 - STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE FUNDS
###### ยง 235.5 Payments to States.
####### Administrative plan.

(b)(1) Each State agency shall submit, subject to FNS approval, an initial State Administrative Expense plan based upon guidance provided by FNS. This base year plan shall include:

(i) The staffing pattern for State level personnel;

(ii) A budget for the forthcoming fiscal year showing projected amounts (combined SAE and State funds) by cost category;

(iii) The total amount of budgeted funds to be provided from State sources;

(iv) The total amount of budgeted funds to be provided under this part;

(v) The State agency's estimate of the total amount of budgeted funds (combined SAE and State funds) attributable to administration of the School Nutrition Programs (National School Lunch, School Breakfast and Special Milk Programs), Child and Adult Care Food Program, and/or Food Distribution Program in schools and child and adult care institutions and to each of the major activity areas of the State agency; and

(vi) The State agency's estimate of the total Child and Adult Care Food Program audit funds to be used for the forthcoming fiscal year.

(2) These activity areas shall be defined and described by the State agency in accordance with guidance issued by FNS and may include such activities as program monitoring, technical assistance, Federal reporting/claims processing, policy implementation, and allocation of foods to recipient agencies.

(3) Except in specific instances where determined necessary by FNS, State agencies shall not be required to maintain expenditure records by activity area or program. State agencies shall refer to 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.

(4) FNS shall approve a State agency's plan, or any amendment to such plan under paragraph (c) of this section, if it determines that the plan or amendment is consistent with program administrative needs and SAE requirements under this part.

(5) To the extent practicable, State agencies shall implement their approved plans (as amended). FNS shall monitor State agency implementation of the plans through management evaluations, State agency reports submitted under this part, audits, and through other available means.

(6) FNS may expand plan requirements for individual State agencies in order to address specific administrative deficiencies which affect compliance with program requirements and which have been identified by FNS through its monitoring activities.
