
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 235 - STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE FUNDS
###### ยง 235.5 Payments to States.
####### Return of funds.

(e)(1) In Fiscal Year 1991, up to 25 per cent of the SAE funds allocated to each State agency under ยง 235.4 may remain available for obligation and expenditure in the second fiscal year of the grant. In subsequent fiscal years, up to 20 percent may remain available for obligation and expenditure in the second fiscal year. The maximum amount to remain available will be calculated at the time of the formula allocation by multiplying the appropriate percentage by each State agency's formula allocation as provided under ยง 235.4(a) through (c). At the end of the first fiscal year, the amount subject to the retention limit is determined by subtracting the amount reported by the State agency as Total Federal share of outlays and unliquidated obligations on the fourth quarter Standard Form FNS 777, Financial Status Report, from the total amount of SAE funds made available for that fiscal year (i.e., the formula allocation adjusted for any transfers or reallocations). However, funds provided under ยง 235.4(d) are not subject to the retention limit. Any funds in excess of the amount that remains available to each State agency shall be returned to FNS.

(2) At the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which funds were allocated, each State agency shall return any funds made available which are unexpended.

(3) Return of funds by the State agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event, not later than 30 days following demand by FNS.
