
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 235 - STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE FUNDS
###### § 235.11 Other provisions.
####### Sanctions imposed.

(b)(1) FNS may recover, withhold or cancel payment of up to one hundred (100) percent of the funds payable to a State agency under this part, whenever it is determined by FNS that the State agency has failed to comply with the requirements contained in this part and in parts 210, 215, 220 and 226 of this title and in part 250 of this title as it applies to the operation of the Food Distribution Program in schools and child and adult care institutions.

(2) In addition to the general provisions found in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, FNS may, for any fiscal year, recover, withhold or cancel payment of up to thirty-three and one-third (33) percent of the funds payable to, and to be used by, a State agency under § 235.4(a)(1) and § 235.4(b)(3) for administration of school nutrition programs in FNS determines that a State agency is deficient in one or more of the following:

(i) Implementing the requirements in § 210.18;

(ii) Conducting the number of reviews required in § 210.18 within the timeframes specified;

(iii) Covering the areas of review set forth in the § 210.18, carrying out corrective action, and assessing and recovering claims as prescribed in §§ 210.18 and 210.19 of this title;

(iv) Conducting reviews with sufficient thoroughness to identify violations of the areas of review identified in § 210.18;

(v) Meeting the reporting deadlines prescribed for the forms (FNS-10 and FNS-777) required under § 210.5(d) of this title; and

(vi) Meeting the professional standards required in paragraph (g) of this section.

(3) Furthermore, FNS may for any fiscal year, recover, withhold or cancel payment of up to thirty-three and one-third (33) percent of the funds payable to, and to be used by, a State agency under § 235.4(a)(2), § 235.4(b)(1) and § 235.4(b)(4) for administration of the Child and Adult Care Food Program if FNS determines that a State agency is deficient in meeting the reporting deadlines prescribed for the forms (FNS-44 and FNS-777) required under § 226.7(d) of this title.

(4) In establishing the amounts of funds to be recovered, withheld or cancelled under paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, FNS shall determine the current or projected rate of funds usage by the State agency for all funds subject to sanction, and after considering the severity and longevity of the cumulative deficiencies, shall apply an appropriate sanction percentage to the amount so determined. During the fiscal year under sanction, a State agency may not use funds not included in the determination of funds usage to replace sanctioned funds. The maximum sanction percentage that may be imposed against a State agency for failure within one or more of the five deficiency areas specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for any fiscal year shall be thirty-three and one-third (33) percent of the funds payable under § 235.4(a)(1) and § 235.4(b)(3) for administration of school nutrition programs for such fiscal year.

(5) Before carrying out any sanction against a State agency under this section, the following procedures shall be implemented:

(i) FNS shall notify the Chief State School Officer or equivalent of the deficiencies found and of its intention to impose sanctions unless an acceptable corrective action plan is submitted and approved by FNS within 60 calendar days.

(ii) The State agency shall develop a corrective action plan with specific timeframes to correct the deficiencies and/or prevent their future recurrence. The plan will include dates by which the State agency will accomplish such corrective action.

(iii) FNS shall review the corrective action plan. If it is acceptable, FNS shall issue a letter to the Chief State School Officer or equivalent approving the corrective action plan, and detailing the technical assistance that is available to the State agency to correct the deficiencies. The letter shall advise the Chief State School Officer or equivalent of the specific sanctions to be imposed if the corrective action plan is not implemented within timeframes set forth in the approved plan.

(iv) Upon advice from the State agency that corrective action has been taken, FNS shall assess such action and, if necessary, shall perform a follow-up review to determine if the noted deficiencies have been corrected. FNS shall then advise the State agency if the actions taken are in compliance with the corrective action plan or if additional corrective action is needed.

(v) If an acceptable corrective action plan is not submitted and approved within 60 calendar days, or if corrective action is not completed within the time limits established in the corrective action plan, FNS may impose a sanction by assessing a claim against the State agency or taking action in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 FNS shall notify the Chief State School Officer or equivalent of any such action.

(vi) If, subsequent to the imposition of any sanction, FNS determines that the noted deficiencies have been resolved and that the programs for which SAE funds were made available are being operated in an acceptable manner, FNS may return to the State agency or restore to the State agency's Letter of Credit (LOC) part or all of any sanctioned SAE funds.

(6) In carrying out sanctions under this part for any fiscal year, FNS may reduce the amount of allocated SAE funds payable to a State agency in whole or in part during such fiscal year and during following fiscal years if necessary.

(7) Any State agency which has a sanction imposed against it in accordance with this paragraph shall not be eligible to participate in any reallocation of SAE funds under § 235.5(d) of this part during any fiscal year in which such sanction is being applied.
