
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 235 - STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE FUNDS
###### ยง 235.11 Other provisions.
####### Administrative review process.

(f)When FNS asserts a sanction against a State agency under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the State agency may appeal the case and be afforded a review by an FNS Administrative Review Officer of the record including any additional written submissions prepared by the State agency.

(1) FNS shall provide a written notice and shall ensure the receipt of such notice when asserting a sanction against a State agency.

(2) A State agency aggrieved by a sanction asserted against it may file a written request with the Director, Administrative Review Staff, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22302 for a review of the record. Such request must be postmarked within 30 calendar days of the date of delivery of the sanction notice and the envelope containing the request shall be prominently marked "REQUEST FOR REVIEW." If the State agency does not request a review within 30 calendar days of the date of delivery of the sanction notice, the administrative decision on the sanction shall be final.

(3) Upon receipt of a request for review, FNS shall promptly provide the State agency with a written acknowledgment of the request. The acknowledgment shall include the name and address of the FNS Administrative Review Officer reviewing the sanction. The acknowledgment shall also notify the State agency that any additional information in support of its position must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the acknowledgment.

(4) When a review is requested, the FNS Administrative Review Officer shall review all available information and shall make a final determination within 45 calendar days after receipt of the State agency's additional information. The final determination shall take effect upon delivery of the written notice of this final decision to the State agency.

(5) The final determination of the FNS Administrative Review Officer will be the Department's final decision in the case and will not be subject to reconsideration.
