
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart D - Delegations of Authority to Other General Officers and Agency Heads
##### ยง 2.29 Chief Economist.
###### Related to energy.

(11)(i) Advise the Secretary and other policy-level officials of the Department on energy policies and programs, including legislative and budget proposals.

(ii) Serve as or designate the Department representative at hearings, conferences, meetings and other contacts with respect to energy and energy-related matters, including liaison with the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency and other governmental agencies and departments.

(iii)-(iv) [Reserved]

(v) Provide Department leadership in:

(A) Analyzing and evaluating existing and proposed energy policies and strategies, including those regarding the allocation of scarce resources;

(B) Developing energy policies and strategies, including those regarding the allocation of scarce resources;

(C) Reviewing and evaluating Departmental energy and energy-related programs and programs progress;

(D) Developing agricultural and rural components of national energy policy plans; and

(E) Preparing reports on energy and energy-related polices and programs required under Acts of Congress and Executive orders, including those involving testimony and reports on legislative proposals.

(vi) Provide Departmental oversight and coordination with respect to resources available for energy and energy-related activities, including funds transferred to USDA from other departments or agencies of the Federal Government pursuant to interagency agreements.

(vii) Administer a competitive biodiesel fuel education grants program (7 U.S.C. 8106).

(viii) Implement a memorandum of understanding with the Secretary of Energy regarding cooperation in the application of hydrogen and fuel cell technology programs for rural communities and agricultural producers.
