
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart D - Delegations of Authority to Other General Officers and Agency Heads
##### ยง 2.30 Director, Office of Budget and Program Analysis.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Director, Office of Budget and Program Analysis:

(1) Serve as the Department's Budget Officer and exercise general responsibility and authority for all matters related to the Department's budgeting affairs including:

(i) Resource administration, including all phases of the acquisition, and distribution of funds and staff years.

(ii) Legislative and regulatory reporting and related activities.

(2) Provide staff assistance for the Secretary, general officers, and other Department and agency officials.

(3) Formulate and promulgate Departmental budgetary, legislative and regulatory policies and procedures.

(4) Represent the Department in contacts with the Office of Management and Budget, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of the Treasury, Congressional Committees on Appropriations, and other organizations and agencies on matters related to his or her responsibility.

(5) Coordinate and/or conduct policy and program analyses on agency operations and proposals to assist the Secretary, general officers and other Department and agency officials in formulating and implementing USDA policies and programs.

(6) Review and analyze legislation, regulations, and policy options to determine their impact on USDA programs and policy objectives and on the Department's budget.

(7) Monitor ongoing studies with significant program or policy implications.

(8) Exercise responsibility for coordinating and overseeing the implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, Public Law 103-62, and the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010, Public Law 111-352, at the Department.

(9) Administer the Departmental forms, reports, and directives management programs.

(b) The following authority is reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture: Final approval of the Department's program and financial plans.
