
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 245 - DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR FREE AND REDUCED PRICE MEALS AND FREE MILK IN SCHOOLS
###### ยง 245.6 Application, eligibility and certification of children for free and reduced price meals and free milk.
####### Other disclosures.

(i)State agencies and local educational agencies that plan to use or disclose information about children eligible for free or reduced price meals or free milk in ways not specified in this section must obtain written consent from the child's parent or guardian prior to the use or disclosure. Only a parent or guardian who is a member of the child's household for purposes of the free and reduced price meal or free milk application may give consent to the disclosure of free and reduced price meal eligibility information.

(1) The consent must identify the information that will be shared and how the information will be used.

(2) The consent statement must be signed and dated by the child's parent or guardian who is a member of the household for purposes of the free and reduced price meal or free milk application.

(3) There must be a statement informing parents and guardians that failing to sign the consent will not affect the child's eligibility for free or reduced price meals or free milk and that the individuals or programs receiving the information will not share the information with any other entity or program.

(4) Parents/guardians must be permitted to limit the consent only to those programs with which they wish to share information.
