
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart D - Delegations of Authority to Other General Officers and Agency Heads
##### ยง 2.32 Chief Information Officer.
###### Delegations.

(a)The Chief Information Officer is responsible for executing the duties enumerated in Public Law 104-106 for agency Chief Information Officers, and additional specified duties, as follows:

(1) Report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture regarding information technology matters.

(2) Oversee all information technology and information resource management activities relating to the programs and operations of the Department and component agencies. This oversight includes approving information technology investments, monitoring and evaluating the performance of those investments and information resource management activities, approval of all architectures and components thereto and determining whether to continue, modify, or terminate an information technology program or project.

(3) Provide advice and other assistance to the Secretary and other senior management personnel to ensure that information technology acquired and managed for the Department consistent with chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (Coordination of Federal Information Policy).

(4) Develop, implement, and maintain a sound and integrated Departmentwide information technology architecture.

(5) Promote the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information resources management processes for the Department, including improvements to work processes of the Department.

(6) Approve the acquisition or procurement of information technology resources by, or on behalf of, any Department agency or office.

(7) Collaborate with Department procurement personnel with respect to information technology acquisition strategy and policy.

(8) Function as the Major Information Technology Systems Executive in USDA to integrate and unify the management process for the Department's major information technology system acquisitions and to monitor implementation of the policies and practices set forth in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-109, Major Systems Acquisitions, for information technology. This includes the authority to:

(i) Ensure that OMB Circular No. A-109 is effectively implemented for information technology systems in the Department and that the management objectives of the Circular are realized.

(ii) Review the program management of each major information technology system acquisition.

(iii) Approve the appointment of the program manager for each major information technology systems acquisition.

(iv) Designate any Departmental information technology acquisition as a major system acquisition under OMB Circular No. A-109.

(9) On an annual basis:

(i) Assess Departmentwide personnel requirements regarding knowledge and skill in information resources management, and the adequacy of such requirements, to achieve the performance goals established for information resources management.

(ii) Develop strategies and specific plans for hiring, training, and professional development at the executive and management level to meet personnel information technology personnel requirements.

(iii) Report to the Assistant Secretary for Administration on progress made in improving information resources management capability.

(10) Function as the senior official to carry out the responsibilities of the Department under chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (Coordination of Federal Information Policy), including:

(i) Ensure that the information policies, principles, standards, guidelines, rules and regulations prescribed by OMB are appropriately implemented within the Department.

(ii) Review proposed Department reporting and record keeping requirements, including those contained in rules and regulations, to ensure that they impose the minimum burden upon the public and have practical utility for the Department.

(iii) Develop and implement procedures for assessing the burden to the public and costs to the Department of information requirements contained in proposed legislation affecting Department programs.

(iv) Assist OMB in the performance of its functions assigned under the E-Government Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-347), including review of Department and Agency activities for compliance.

(v) Assist OMB in the performance of its functions assigned under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520), including review of Department and Agency activities for compliance.

(11) The Chief Information Officer is also responsible for the following:

(i) Provide Departmentwide guidance and direction in planning, developing, documenting, and managing applications software projects in accordance with Federal and Department information processing standards, procedures, and guidelines.

(ii) Provide Departmentwide guidance and direction in all aspects of information technology, including: Feasibility studies; economic analyses; systems design; acquisition of equipment, software, services, and timesharing arrangements; systems installation; systems performance and capacity evaluation; information technology investment governance; cybersecurity; and privacy. Monitor these activities for agencies' major systems development efforts to assure effective and economic use of resources and compatibility among systems of various agencies when required.

(iii) Manage the Enterprise Data Centers, with the exception of the National Finance Center; and oversee the delivery of Enterprise Data Center goods and services, with authority to take actions required by law or regulation to perform such services as a Working Capital Fund activity.

(iv) Manage a comprehensive set of end user office automation services and oversee the delivery of goods and services associated with end user office automation services, including desktop computers, enterprise networking support, handheld devices, and voice telecommunications, with authority to take actions required by law or regulation to perform such services as a Working Capital Fund activity.

(v) Manage the Agricultural Security Operations Center to enable the Department to effectively monitor, detect, analyze, protect, report, and respond against known cyber vulnerabilities, attacks, and exploitations.

(vi) Manage the Department's Certification and Accreditation process to ensure the Department and agencies have successfully conducted periodic risk assessments of its systems; grant the authority to operate for systems that have successfully completed the Certification and Accreditation process; and rescind or suspend the authority to operate for systems subject to repeated and/or significant security issues.

(vii) Ensure that OMB Circular No. A-16, Coordination of Geographic Information and Related Spatial Data Activities, is effectively implemented in the Department and that the management objectives of the Circular are realized; and providing Departmentwide guidance and direction in governing, developing, implementing, and maintaining a sound and integrated geospatial architecture.

(viii) Provide technical assistance, coordination, and guidance to Department agencies in planning, developing, and carrying out satellite remote sensing activities to ensure full consideration and evaluation of advanced technology; designate the Executive Secretary for the Remote Sensing Coordination Committee; and coordinate administrative, management, and budget information relating to the Department's remote sensing activities including:

(A) Inter- and intra-agency meetings, correspondence, and records;

(B) Budget and management tracking systems; and

(C) Inter-agency contacts and technology transfer.

(ix) Review and evaluate information technology activities related to delegated functions to assure that they conform to all applicable Federal and Department information technology management policies, plans, standards, procedures, and guidelines.

(x) Design, develop, implement, and revise systems, processes, work methods, and techniques to improve the management and operational effectiveness of information resources.

(xi) Manage all aspects of the USDA Telecommunications Program including planning, development, acquisition, and use of equipment and systems for voice, data, and communications, excluding the actual procurement of data transmission equipment, software, maintenance, and related supplies.

(xii) Manage Departmental telecommunications contracts.

(xiii) Provide technical advice throughout the Department.

(xiv) Implement a program for applying information resources management technology to improve productivity in the Department.

(xv) Plan, develop, install, and operate computer-based systems for message exchange, scheduling, computer conferencing, televideo technologies, and other applications of office automation technology which can be commonly used by multiple Department agencies and offices.

(xvi) Represent the Department in contacts with the Government Accountability Office, the General Services Administration, OMB, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and other organizations or agencies on matters related to delegated responsibilities.

(12) Implement policies established pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(11) of this section by:

(i) Disposing of information technology that is acquired by a Department agency in violation of procedures or standards for the Department Information Systems Technology Architecture.

(ii) Establishing information technology and information resources management performance standards for mission area Chief Information Officers, information resources managers, and project managers to be used in the performance appraisal process.

(iii) Approving the selection of mission area Chief Information Officers and mission area major information technology system project managers in accordance with OMB policies.

(iv) Providing recommendations to mission area heads for the removal or replacement of information technology project managers, when, in the opinion of the Chief Information Officer, applicable laws and policies are being violated, or, when the cost, schedule, or performance of an information technology project would indicate management deficiencies.

(v) Withdrawing agencies' authority to obligate funds on Information Technology programs or projects if the agency violates the Chief Information Officer policies, standards, or Department Information Systems Technology Architecture.

(vi) Requiring mission areas to validate and verify major information technology systems through the use of an existing contract for such purpose designated by the Chief Information Officer.

(vii) Requiring approval by the Chief Information Officer of any proposed acquisition of information technology (whether through the award or modification of a procurement contract, a cooperative or other agreement with a non-Federal party, or an interagency agreement) to ensure technical conformance to the Department technical architecture.

(viii) Providing guidance to USDA regarding implementation of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as well as on-going consultative assistance regarding information technology accessibility, and reviewing progress made toward achieving information technology accessibility for USDA employees and individuals with disabilities.
