
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 245 - DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR FREE AND REDUCED PRICE MEALS AND FREE MILK IN SCHOOLS
###### ยง 245.6a Verification requirements.
####### Verification procedures and assistance for households,Notification of selection.

(f)-(1)Other than households verified through the direct verification process in paragraph (g) of this section, households selected for verification must be notified in writing that their applications were selected for verification. The written statement must include a telephone number for assistance as required in paragraph (f)(5) of this section. Any communications with households concerning verification must be in an understandable and uniform format and, to the maximum extent practicable, in a language that parents and guardians can understand. These households must be advised of the type of information or documents the school accepts. Households selected for verification must be informed that:

(i) They are required to submit the requested information to verify eligibility for free or reduced-price meals, by the date determined by the local educational agency.

(ii) They may, instead, submit proof that the children receive SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF assistance, as explained in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(iii) They may, instead, request that the local educational agency contact the appropriate officials to confirm that their children are foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway, as defined in ยง 245.2.

(iv) Failure to cooperate with verification efforts will result in the termination of benefits.
