
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart D - Delegations of Authority to Other General Officers and Agency Heads
##### ยง 2.37 Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.

(a) In compliance with the Small Business Act, the Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization is designated as the Department's Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, who shall report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture. The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization has specific responsibilities under the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 644(k). These duties include being responsible for the following:

(1) Administer the Department's small and disadvantaged business activities related to procurement contracts, minority bank deposits, and grants and loan activities affecting small and minority businesses including women-owned business, and the small business, small minority business, and small women-owned business subcontracting programs.

(2) Provide Departmentwide liaison and coordination of activities related to small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned businesses with the Small Business Administration and others in the public and private sector.

(3) Develop policies and procedures required by the applicable provision of the Small Business Act, as amended, to include the establishment of goals.

(4) Implement and administer programs described under sections 8 and 15 of the Small Business Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 637 and 644).

(5) In compliance with the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003 (Pub. L. 108-183) amending the Small Business Act, implement and administer procurement programs for small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans.

(b) The following additional authorities are delegated by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization:
