
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 245 - DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR FREE AND REDUCED PRICE MEALS AND FREE MILK IN SCHOOLS
###### ยง 245.10 Action by local educational agencies.

(a) Each local educational agencyof a school desiring to participate in the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, or to provide free milk under the Special Milk Program, or to become a commodity-only school shall submit for approval to the State agency a free and reduced price policy statement. Once approved, the policy statement shall be a permanent document which may be amended as necessary, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Such policy statement, as a minimum, shall contain the following:

(1) The official or officials designated by the local educational agency to make eligibility determinations on its behalf for free and reduced price meals or for free milk;

(2) An assurance that for children who are not categorically eligible for free and reduced price benefits the local educational agency will determine eligibility for free and reduced price meals or free milk in accordance with the current Income Eligibility Guidelines.

(3) The specific procedures the local educational agency will use in accepting applications from families for free and reduced price meals or for free milk. Additionally, the local educational agency must include the specific procedures it will use for obtaining documentation for determining children's eligibility through direct certification, in lieu of an application. Local educational agencies shall also provide households that are directly certified with a notice of eligibility, as specified in ยง 245.6(c)(2) and shall include in their policy statement a copy of such notice.

(4) A description of the method or methods to be used to collect payments from those children paying the full price of the meal or milk, or a reduced price of a meal, which will prevent the overt identification of the children receiving a free meal or free milk or a reduced price meal, and

(5) An assurance that the school will abide by the hearing procedure set forth in ยง 245.7 and the nondiscrimination practices set forth in ยง 245.8.

(b) The policy statement submitted by each local educational agency shall be accompanied by a copy of the application form to be used by the school and of the proposed letter or notice to parents.

(c) Each local educational agency shall amend its permanent free and reduced price policy statement to reflect substantive changes. Any amendment to a policy shall be approved by the State agency prior to implementation, or as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Each year, if a local educational agency does not have its policy statement approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, by October 15, reimbursement shall be suspended for any meals or milk served until such time as the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Furthermore, no commodities donated by the Department shall be used in any school after October 15, until such time as the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Once the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved, reimbursement may be allowed, at the discretion of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for eligible meals and milk served during the period of suspension.

(d) If any free and reduced price policy statement submitted for approval by any local educational agency to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, is determined to be not in compliance with the provisions of this part, the local educational agency shall submit a policy statement that does meet the provisions within 30 days after notification by the State agency, or FNSO where applicable.

(e) When revision of a local educational agency's approved free and reduced price policy statement is necessitated because of a change in the family-size income standards of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, or because of other program changes, the local educational agency shall have 60 days from the date the State agency announces the change in which to have its revised policy statement approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. In the event that a local educational agency's proposed revised free and reduced price policy statement has not been submitted to, and approved by, the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, within 60 days following the public announcement by the State agency, reimbursement shall be suspended for any meals or milk served after the end of the 60-day period. No commodities donated by the Department shall be used in any school after the end of the 60-day period, until such time as the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Reimbursement may be allowed at the discretion of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for eligible meals and milk served during the period of suspension once the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Pending approval of a revision of a policy statement, the existing statement shall remain in effect.
