
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart D - Delegations of Authority to Other General Officers and Agency Heads
##### ยง 2.38 Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement.
###### Delegations.

(a)The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement:

(1) Related to Advocacy and Outreach:

(i) Ensure that small farms and ranches, beginning farmers or ranchers, and socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers have access to, and equitable participation in, programs and services of the Department pursuant to section 226B(c) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6934(c)).

(ii) Oversee the Advisory Committee for Beginning Farmers and Ranchers.

(iii) Oversee the operations of the Office of Small Farms Coordination.

(iv) Administer section 2501 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), as amended, except for the beginning farmer and rancher development program in subsection (d) and authorities related to the Census of Agriculture and economic studies in subsection (j) of that section.

(v) Oversee the Minority Farmer Advisory Committee pursuant to section 14008 of FCEA (7 U.S.C. 2279 note).

(vi) Administer the low-income migrant and seasonal farmworker grants program under section 2281 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 5177a).

(vii) Consult with appropriate entities regarding integration of farmworker interests into Department programs, including assisting farmworkers in becoming agricultural producers or landowners, and research, program improvements, and agricultural education opportunities for low-income and migrant seasonal farmworkers.

(viii) Administer the grants program under section 14204 of FCEA (7 U.S.C. 2008q-1) to improve the supply, stability, safety, and training of the agricultural labor force.

(ix) Administer and coordinate a USDA outreach program in collaboration with USDA agencies.

(x) Administer section 2501A of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1), including the authority to coordinate Department policy for the issuance of receipts under subsection (e) of that section.

(xi) Provide strategic planning and performance measurement, coordinate outreach activities, monitor goals and objectives, and evaluate programs, of Department programs and activities involving small farms or ranches and beginning or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.

(xii) Administer the USDA/1994 Land Grant Institutions (Tribal Colleges) Programs.

(xiii) Administer the USDA/1890 Liaison Officer Program.

(xiv) Administer the Hispanic Serving Institutions National Program, including through the use of cooperative agreements under 7 U.S.C. 3318(b).

(xv) Serve as a lead agency in carrying out student internship programs (7 U.S.C. 2279c).

(xvi) Coordinate outreach to Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Oversee the Military Veterans Agricultural Liaison (7 U.S.C. 6919).

(4) Oversee the Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships.

(5) Oversee the Women in Agriculture Initiative.

(6) With the exception of competitive grant programs administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, or any youth employment opportunity programs such as Pathways or Job Corp, serve as the Department lead for strategic planning and coordinating youth outreach activities of USDA agencies' programs (including, but not limited to, 4-H; Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) programs; information and cyber technology student programs, Future Farmers of America (FFA) activities; summer high school internships; and youth gardening programs); development of program evaluation metrics and consistent messaging for youth outreach activities; and monitoring goals and objectives.

(7) Oversee the Agricultural Youth Organization Coordinator (7 U.S.C. 6934b).

(8) Exercise the authority of the Secretary related to Tribal Promise Zones under section 12510 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (25 U.S.C. 4301 note).

(b) [Reserved]
