
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 245 - DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR FREE AND REDUCED PRICE MEALS AND FREE MILK IN SCHOOLS
###### § 245.12 Action by State agencies and FNSROs.

(a) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall, for schools under its jurisdiction:

(1) As necessary, each State agency or FNSRO, as applicable, shall issue a prototype free and reduced price policy statement and any other instructions to ensure that each local educational agency as defined in § 245.2 is fully informed of the provisions of this part. If the State elects to establish for all schools a maximum price for reduced price lunches that is less than 40 cents, the State shall establish such price in its prototype policy. Such State shall then receive the adjusted national average factor provided for in § 210.4(b);

(2) Prescribe and publicly announce by July 1 of each fiscal year, in accordance with § 245.3(a), family-size income standards. Any standards prescribed by FNSRO with respect to nonprofit private schools shall be developed by FNSRO after consultation with the State agency.

(a-1) When a revision of the family-size income standards of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, is necessitated because of a change in the Secretary's income poverty guidelines or because of other program changes, the State agency shall publicly announce its revised family-size income standards no later than 30 days after the Secretary has announced such change.

(b) State agencies, and FNSRO where applicable, shall review the policy statements submitted by school-food authorities for compliance with the provisions of this part and inform the school-food authorities of any necessary changes or amendments required in any policy statement to bring such statement into compliance. They shall notify school-food authorities in writing of approval of their policy statements and shall direct them to distribute promptly the public announcements required under the provisions of § 245.5.

(c) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall instruct local educational agencies under their jurisdiction that they may not alter or amend the eligibility criteria set forth in an approved policy statement without advance approval of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable.

(d) Not later than 10 days after the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, announces its family-size income standards, it shall notify local educational agencies in writing of any amendment to their free and reduced price policy statements necessary to bring the family-sized income criteria into conformance with the State agency's or FNSRO's family-size income standards.

(e) Except as provided in § 245.10, the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall neither disburse any funds, nor authorize the distribution of commodities donated by the Department to any school unless the local educational agency has an approved free and reduced price policy statement on file with the State Agency, or FNSRO where applicable.

(f) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall, in the course of its supervisory assistance, review and evaluate the performance of local educational agencies and of schools in fulfilling the requirements of this part, and shall advise local educational agencies of any deficiencies found and any corrective action required to be taken.

(g) The State agency must notify FNS whether the TANF Program in their State is comparable to or more restrictive than the State's Aid to Families with Dependent Children Program that was in effect on June 1, 1995. Automatic eligibility and direct certification for TANF households is allowed only in States in which FNS has been assured that the TANF standards are comparable to or more restrictive than the program it replaced. State agencies must inform FNS when there is a change in the State's TANF Program that would no longer make households participating in TANF automatically eligible for free school meals.

(h) The State agency shall take action to ensure the proper implementation of Provisions 1, 2, and 3. Such action shall include:
