
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart B - State and Local Agency Eligibility
####### § 246.4 State plan.
######## Requirements.

(a)By August 15 of each year, each State agency shall submit to FNS for approval a State Plan for the following fiscal year as a prerequisite to receiving funds under this section. The State agency may submit the State Plan in the format provided by FNS guidance. Alternatively, the State agency may submit the Plan in combination with other federally required planning documents or develop its own format, provided that the information required below is included. FNS requests advance notification that a State agency intends to use an alternative format. The State Plan shall be signed by the State designated official responsible for ensuring that the Program is operated in accordance with the State Plan. FNS will provide written approval or denial of a completed State Plan or amendment within 30 days of receipt. Within 15 days after FNS receives an incomplete Plan, FNS will notify the State agency that additional information is needed to complete the Plan. Any disapproval will be accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the disapproval. After receiving approval of the State Plan, each State agency shall only submit to FNS for approval substantive changes in the State Plan. A complete and approved Plan shall include:

(1) An outline of the State agency's goals and objectives for improving Program operations, to include EBT and/or EBT implementation.

(2) A budget for nutrition services and administration funds, and an estimate of food expenditures.

(3) An estimate of Statewide participation for the coming fiscal year by category of women, infants and children.

(4) The State agency staffing pattern.

(5) An Affirmative Action Plan which includes-

(i) A list of all areas and special populations, in priority order based on relative need, within the jurisdiction of the State agency, the State agency's plans to initiate or expand operations under the Program in areas most in need of supplemental foods, including plans to inform nonparticipating local agencies of the availability and benefits of the Program and the availability of technical assistance in implementing the Program, and a description of how the State agency will take all reasonable actions to identify potential local agencies and encourage agencies to implement or expand operations under the Program within the following year in the neediest one-third of all areas unserved or partially served;

(ii) An estimate of the number of potentially eligible persons in each area and a list of the areas in the Affirmative Action Plan which are currently operating the Program and their current participation, which participant priority levels as specified in § 246.7 are being reached in each of these areas, and which areas in the Affirmative Action Plan are currently operating CSFP and their current participation; and

(iii) A list of the names and addresses of all local agencies.

(6) Plans to provide program benefits to eligible migrant farmworkers and their families, to Indians, and to homeless individuals.

(7) The State agency's plans, to be conducted in cooperation with local agencies, for informing eligible persons of the availability of Program benefits, including the eligibility criteria for participation, the location of local agencies operating the Program, and the institutional conditions of § 246.7(n)(1)(i) of this part, with emphasis on reaching and enrolling eligible women in the early months of pregnancy and migrants. Such information shall be publicly announced by the State agency and by local agencies at least annually. Such information shall also be distributed to offices and organizations that deal with significant numbers of potentially eligible persons, including health and medical organizations, hospitals and clinics, welfare and unemployment offices, social service agencies, farmworker organizations, Indian tribal organizations, organizations and agencies serving homeless individuals, and religious and community organizations in low-income areas.

(8) A description of how the State agency plans to coordinate program operations with other services or programs that may benefit participants in, or applicants for, the program.

(9) The State agency's nutrition education goals and action plans to include:

(i) A description of the methods that will be used to provide drug and other harmful substance abuse information, to promote and support breastfeeding, and to meet the special nutrition education needs of migrant farmworkers and their families, Indians, and homeless persons.

(ii) State agencies have the option to provide nutrition education materials to institutions participating in the CACFP at no cost, as long as a written agreement for sharing such materials is in place between the relevant WIC and CACFP entities. State agencies may initiate a sharing agreement with their State-level CACFP counterparts that would apply statewide, or may authorize their local agencies or clinics to initiate a sharing agreement at the local level with their local level CACFP counterparts.

(10) For Indian State or local agencies that wish to apply for the alternate income determination procedure in accordance with § 246.7(d)(2)(vii), documentation that the majority of Indian household members have incomes below eligibility criteria.

(11) A copy of the procedure manual developed by the State agency for guidance to local agencies in operating the Program. The manual shall include-

(i) Certification procedures, including:

(A) A list of the specific nutritional risk criteria by priority level which explains how a person's nutritional risk is determined;

(B) Hematological data requirements including timeframes for the collection of such data;

(C) The procedures for requiring proof of pregnancy, consistent with § 246.7(c)(2)(ii), if the State agency chooses to require such proof;

(D) The State agency's income guidelines for Program eligibility;

(E) Adjustments to the participant priority system (see § 246.7(e)(4)) to accommodate high-risk postpartum women or the addition of Priority VII; and,

(F) Alternate language for the statement of rights and responsibilities which is provided to applicants, parents, or caretakers when applying for benefits as outlined in § 246.7(i)(10) and (j)(2)(i) through (j)(2)(iii). This alternate language must be approved by FNS before it can be used in the required statement.

(ii) Methods for providing nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, to participants. Nutrition education will include information on drug abuse and other harmful substances. Participants will include homeless individuals.

(iii) Instructions concerning all food delivery operations performed at the local level, including the list of acceptable foods and their maximum monthly quantities as required by § 246.10(b)(2)(i).

(iv) Instructions for providing all records and reports which the State agency requires local agencies to maintain and submit; and

(v) Instructions on coordinating operations under the program with drug and other harmful substance abuse counseling and treatment services.

(12) A description of the State agency's financial management system.

(13) A description of how the State agency will distribute nutrition services and administration funds, including start-up funds, to local agencies operating under the Program.

(14) A description of the food delivery system as it operates at the State agency level, including-
