
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart B - State and Local Agency Eligibility
####### § 246.4 State plan.
######## List of infant formula wholesalers, distributors, and retailers.

(xviii)The policies and procedures for compiling and distributing to authorized WIC retail vendors, on an annual or more frequent basis, as required by § 246.12(g)(11), a list of infant formula wholesalers, distributors, and retailers licensed in the State in accordance with State law (including regulations), and infant formula manufacturers registered with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that provide infant formula. The vendor may provide only the authorized infant formula which the vendor has obtained from a source included on the list described in § 246.12(g)(11) to participants in exchange for food instruments specifying infant formula.

(xix) A description of how the State agency will replace lost, stolen, or damaged EBT cards and transfer the associated benefits within seven business days.

(xx) A description of the procedures established by the State agency to provide customer service during non-business hours that enable participants or proxies to report a lost, stolen, or damaged card, report other card or benefit issues, receive information on the EBT food balance and receive the current benefit end date. The procedures shall address how the State agency will respond to reports of a lost, stolen, or damaged card within one business day of the date of report.

(15) The State agency's procedures for accepting and processing vendor applications outside of its established timeframes if the State agency determines there will otherwise be inadequate participant access to the WIC Program.

(16) The State agency's plans to prevent and identify dual participation in accordance with § 246.7(l)(1)(i) and (l)(1)(ii). In States where the Program and the CSFP operate in the same area, or where an Indian State agency operates a Program in the same area as a geographic State agency, a copy of the written agreement between the State agencies for the detection and prevention of dual participation shall be submitted.

(17) A description of the procedures the State will use to comply with the civil rights requirements described in § 246.8, including the processing of discrimination complaints.

(18) A copy of the State agency's fair hearing procedures for participants and the administrative appeal procedures for local agencies, food vendors, farmers and farmers' markets.

(19) The State agency's plan to ensure that participants receive required health and nutrition assessments when certified for a period of greater than six months.

(20) The State agency's plan to reach and enroll migrants, and eligible women in the early months of pregnancy.

(21) The State agency's plan to establish, to the extent practicable, that homeless facilities, and institutions if it chooses to make the Program available to them, meet the conditions established in § 246.7(n)(1)(i) of this part, if residents of such accommodations are to be eligible to receive WIC Program benefits.

(22) A plan to provide program benefits to unserved infants and children under the care of foster parents, protective services, or child welfare authorities, including infants exposed to drugs perinatally.

(23) A plan to improve access to the Program for participants and prospective applicants who are employed or who reside in rural areas, by addressing their special needs through the adoption or revision of procedures and practices to minimize the time participants and applicants must spend away from work and the distances participants and applicants must travel. The State agency shall also describe any plans for issuance of food instruments and cash-value vouchers to employed or rural participants, or to any other segment of the participant population, through means other than direct participant pick-up, pursuant to § 246.12(r)(4). Such description shall also include measures to ensure the integrity of Program services and fiscal accountability. The State agency will also describe its policy for approving transportation of participants to and from WIC clinics.

(24) Assurance that each local agency and any subgrantees of the State agency and/or local agencies are in compliance with the requirements of 2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417 regarding nonprocurement debarment/suspension.

(25) A description of the State agency's plans to provide and maintain a drug-free workplace in compliance with requirements in 2 CFR part 180, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance) and USDA implementing regulation 2 CFR part 421.

(26) A list of all organizations with which the State agency or its local agencies has executed or intends to execute a written agreement pursuant to § 246.26(h) authorizing the use and disclosure of confidential applicant and participant information for non-WIC purposes.

(27) The State agency's policies and procedures for preventing conflicts of interest at the local agency or clinic level in a reasonable manner. At a minimum, this plan must prohibit the following WIC certification practices by local agency or clinic employees, or provide effective alternative policies and procedures when such prohibition is not possible:

(i) Certifying oneself;

(ii) Certifying relatives or close friends; or,

(iii) One employee determining eligibility for all certification criteria and issuing food instruments, cash-value vouchers or supplemental food for the same participant.

(28) The State agency's plan for collecting and maintaining information on cases of participant and employee fraud and abuse. Such information should include the nature of the fraud detected and the associated dollar losses.

(29) The State agency's Universal Identifier number.
