
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart B - State and Local Agency Eligibility
####### ยง 246.5 Selection of local agencies.
######## Program initiation and expansion.

(c)The State agency shall meet the following requirements concerning Program initiation and expansion:

(1) The State agency will consider the Affirmative Action Plan (see ยง 246.4(a)(5)) when funding local agencies and expanding existing operations, and may consider how much of the current need is being met at each priority level. The selection criteria cited in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be applied to each area or special population before eliminating that area from consideration and serving the next area of special population. The State agency shall consider the number of participants in each priority level being served by existing local agencies in determining when it is appropriate to move into additional areas in the Affirmative Action Plan or to expand existing operations in an area. Additionally, the State agency shall consider the total number of people potentially eligible in each area compared to the number being served.

(2) The State agency shall provide a written justification to FNS for not funding an agency to serve the highest priority area or special population. Such justification may include its inability to administer the Program, lack of interest expressed for operating the Program, or for those areas or special populations which are under consideration for expansion of an existing operation, a determination by the State agency that there is a greater need for funding an agency serving an area or special population not operating the Program. The State agency shall use the participant priority system in ยง 246.7 as a measurement of greater need in such determination.

(3) The State agency may fund more than one local agency to serve the same area or special population as long as more than one local agency is necessary to serve the full extent of need in that area or special population.
