
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart B - State and Local Agency Eligibility
####### ยง 246.5 Selection of local agencies.
######## Local agency priority system.

(d)The State agency shall establish standards for the selection of new local agencies. Such standards shall include the following considerations:

(1) The State agency shall consider the following priority system, which is based on the relative availability of health and administrative services, in the selection of local agencies:

(i) First consideration shall be given to a public or a private nonprofit health agency that will provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care and administrative services.

(ii) Second consideration shall be given to a public or a private nonprofit health or human service agency that will enter into a written agreement with another agency for either ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care or administrative services.

(iii) Third consideration shall be given to a public or private nonprofit health agency that will enter into a written agreement with private physicians, licensed by the State, in order to provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care to a specific category of participants (women, infants or children).

(iv) Fourth consideration shall be given to a public or private nonprofit human service agency that will enter into a written agreement with private physicians, licensed by the State, to provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care.

(v) Fifth consideration shall be given to a public or private nonprofit health or human service agency that will provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care through referral to a health provider.

(2) The State agency must, when seeking new local agencies, publish a notice in the local media (unless it has received an application from a local public or nonprofit private health agency that can provide adequate services). The notice will include a brief explanation of the Program, a description of the local agency priority system (outlined in this paragraph (d)), and a request that potential local agencies notify the State agency of their interest. In addition, the State agency will contact all potential local agencies to make sure they are aware of the opportunity to apply. If an application is not submitted within 30 days, the State agency may then select a local agency in another area. If sufficient funds are available, a State agency will give notice and consider applications outside the local area at the same time.
