
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart C - Participant Eligibility
####### ยง 246.7 Certification of participants.
######## Waiting lists.

(1)When the local agency is serving its maximum caseload, the local agency shall maintain a waiting list of individuals who visit the local agency to express interest in receiving Program benefits and who are likely to be served. However, in no case shall an applicant who requests placement on the waiting list be denied inclusion. State agencies may establish a policy which permits or requires local agencies to accept telephone requests for placement on the waiting list. The waiting list shall include the person's name, address or phone number, status (e.g., pregnant, breastfeeding, age of applicant), and the date he or she was placed on the waiting list. Individuals shall be notified of their placement on a waiting list within 20 days after they visit the local agency during clinic office hours to request Program benefits. For those State agencies establishing procedures to accept telephone requests for placement on a waiting list, individuals shall be notified of their placement on a waiting list within 20 days after contacting the local agency by phone. The competent professional authority shall apply the participant priority system as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section to the waiting list to ensure that the highest priority persons become Program participants first when caseload slots become available.
