
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart C - Participant Eligibility
####### ยง 246.7 Certification of participants.
######## Timeframes for processing applicants.

(2)(i) When the local agency is not serving its maximum caseload, the local agency shall accept applications, make eligibility determinations, notify the applicants of the decisions made and, if the applicants are to be enrolled, issue food, cash-value vouchers or food instruments. All of these actions shall be accomplished within the timeframes set forth below.

(ii) The processing timeframes shall begin when the individual visits the local agency during clinic office hours to make an oral or written request for Program benefits. To ensure that accurate records are kept of the date of such requests, the local agency shall, at the time of each request, record the applicant's name, address and the date. The remainder of the information necessary to determine eligibility shall be obtained by the time of certification. Medical data taken prior to certification may be used as provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section.

(iii) The local agency shall act on applications within the following timeframes:

(A) Special nutritional risk applicants shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility within 10 days of the date of the first request for Program benefits; except that State agencies may provide an extension of the notification period to a maximum of 15 days for those local agencies which make written request, including a justification of the need for an extension. The State agency shall establish criteria for identifying categories of persons at special nutritional risk who require expedited services. At a minimum, however, these categories shall include pregnant women eligible as Priority I participants, and migrant farmworkers and their family members who soon plan to leave the jurisdiction of the local agency.

(B) All other applicants shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility within 20 days of the date of the first request for Program benefits.

(iv) Each local agency using a retail purchase system shall issue a food instrument(s) and if applicable cash-value voucher(s) to the participant at the same time as notification of certification. Such food instrument(s) and cash-value vouchers shall provide benefits for the current month or the remaining portion thereof and shall be redeemable immediately upon receipt by the participant. Local agencies may mail the initial food instrument(s) and if applicable cash-value vouchers with the notification of certification to those participants who meet the criteria for the receipt of food instruments through the mail, as provided in ยง 246.12(r)(4).

(v) Each local agency with a direct distribution or home delivery system shall issue the supplemental foods to the participant within 10 days of issuing the notification of certification.
