
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart F - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation
##### ยง 2.42 Administrator, Farm Service Agency.
###### et seq.

(38) Administer the State Agricultural Loan Mediation Program under title 5 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101).

(39) Administer financial assistance programs relating to Economic Opportunity Loans to Cooperatives under part A of title III and part D of title I and the necessarily related functions in title VI of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2763-2768, 2841-2855, 2942, 2943(b), 2961), delegated by the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity to the Secretary of Agriculture by documents dated October 23, 1964 (29 FR 14764), and June 17, 1968 (33 FR 9850), respectively.

(40) Exercise all authority and discretion vested in the Secretary by section 331(c) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended by section 2 of the Farmers Home Administration Improvement Act of 1994, Pub. L. No. 103-248 (7 U.S.C. 1981(c)), including the following:

(i) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the Department of Justice for the conduct of litigation, and refer such actions to the Department of Justice through the General Counsel;

(ii) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the General Counsel, for the conduct of litigation and refer such actions; and

(iii) Enter into contracts with private sector attorneys for the conduct of litigation, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, after determining that the attorneys will provide competent and cost effective representation for the Farm Service Agency.

(41)-(42) [Reserved]

(43) Determine the type and quantity of commodities that are available for programming under section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)), and the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), and arrange for the processing, packaging, transportation, handling and delivery to port of such commodities in connection therewith.

(44) [Reserved]

(45) Administer all programs of the Commodity Credit Corporation that provide assistance with respect to the production of agricultural commodities or the income of producers, including disaster assistance and the domestic marketing of such commodities, except as may otherwise be reserved by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation , and similar programs (including commodity quality development programs) consigned by statute to the Secretary of Agriculture unless otherwise delegated.

(46) Administer the following provisions of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 with respect to functions otherwise delegated to the Administrator, Farm Service Agency:

(i) The equitable relief provisions of section 1613 (7 U.S.C. 7996).

(ii) The tracking of benefits under section 1614 (7 U.S.C. 7997).

(47) Administer programs for Apple Loans and Emergency Loans for Seed Producers under section 203(f) and 253, respectively, of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note, Pub. L. 106-224).

(48) Administer evaluations of direct and guaranteed loan programs under section 5301 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1992 note).

(49) Formulate and carry out the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program, authorized by the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2).

(50) Administer cooperative agreements authorized under 7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4) as follows:

(i) Administer cooperative agreements with respect to conservation programs;

(ii) Administer cooperative agreements with Federal agencies, State, local, and tribal governments, nongovernmental organizations, and educational institutions related to outreach and technical assistance for programs carried out by the Farm Service Agency, and, where such cooperative agreements focus on outreach activities to beginning, underserved, or veteran producers, coordinate with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach to reduce potential duplication.

(51) Administer the feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers under section 9010 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8110) and the biomass crop assistance program under section 9011 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 8111).

(52)-(53) [Reserved]

(54) Implement the authority in section 1241 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841) to accept and use voluntary contributions of non-Federal funds in support of natural resources conservation programs under subtitle D of title XII of that Act with respect to authorities delegated to the Administrator, Farm Service Agency.

(55) In coordination with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(56) Administer the following provisions of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, Public Law 110-246:

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Section 1609 relating to the tracking of benefits.

(iii)-(iv) [Reserved]

(iv) Section 1613 relating to the durum wheat quality program.

(v) Section 1621 relating to direct reimbursement payments to geographically disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.

(vi)-(vii) [Reserved]

(viii) Section 14212 relating to the closure or relocation of county or field offices of the Farm Service Agency.

(ix) [Reserved]

(57) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(58) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79, as amended:

(i) Sections 1401-1410 relating to a margin protection program for dairy producers (7 U.S.C. 9051-9060), and section 1431 relating to a dairy product donation program (7 U.S.C. 9071).

(ii) Section 1612 relating to the tracking of benefits (7 U.S.C. 9095).

(iii) Section 12314 relating to the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 2101 note), in coordination with the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service.

(iv) Section 12315 relating to the Agriculture Wool Apparel Manufacturers Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 7101 note), in coordination with the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service.

(59) Enter into cooperative agreements under section 1472(b) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318(b)) for the purpose of implementing section 1614(c)(3) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9097(c)).

(60) Administer the funds made available to the Office of the Secretary under Title I of Subdivision B, Further Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018, Public Law 115-123.

(61) Administer the Organic Certification Cost Share Programs authorized under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)(4)(C)(ii), and under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act, as amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 6523).

(62) Determine the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs which are available for export.

(63) Administer the following provisions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, Public Law 116-334:

(i) Section 5413 relating to reporting on farm loans (7 U.S.C. 2008x).

(ii) Section 12304 relating to the National Beginning Farmer and Rancher Coordinator (7 U.S.C. 6934a).

(iii) Section 12612 relating to a national agriculture imagery program (7 U.S.C. 2204j).

(iv) Section 12615 relating to the eligibility for farm operators on heirs' property to obtain a farm loan number (7 U.S.C. 2266b).
