
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart C - Participant Eligibility
####### ยง 246.9 Fair hearing procedures for participants.
######## Fair hearing decisions.

(k)(1) Decisions of the hearing official shall be based upon the application of appropriate Federal law, regulations and policy as related to the facts of the case as established in the hearing record. The verbatim transcript or recording of testimony and exhibits, or an official report containing the substance of what transpired at the hearing, together with all papers and requests filed in the proceeding, constitute the exclusive record for a final decision by hearing official. The State or local agency shall retain the hearing record in accordance with ยง 246.25 and make these records available, for copying and inspection, to the appellant or representative at any reasonable time.

(2) The decision by the hearing official shall summarize the facts of the case, specify the reasons for the decision, and identify the supporting evidence and the pertinent regulations or policy. The decision shall become a part of the record.

(3) Within 45 days of the receipt of the request for the hearing, the State or local agency shall notify the appellant or representative in writing of the decision and the reasons for the decision in accordance with paragraph (k)(2) of this section. If the decision is in favor of the appellant and benefits were denied or discontinued, benefits shall begin immediately. If the decision concerns disqualification and is in favor of the agency, as soon as administratively feasible, the local agency shall terminate any continued benefits, as decided by the hearing official. If the decision regarding repayment of benefits by the appellant is in favor of the agency, the State or local agency shall resume its efforts to collect the claim, even during pendency of an appeal of a local-level fair hearing decision to the State agency. The appellant may appeal a local hearing decision to the State agency, provided that the request for appeal is made within 15 days of the mailing date of the hearing decision notice. If the decision being appealed concerns disqualification from the Program, the appellant shall not continue to receive benefits while an appeal to the State agency of a decision rendered on appeal at the local level is pending. The decision of a hearing official at the local level is binding on the local agency and the State agency unless it is appealed to the State level and overturned by the State hearing official.

(4) The State and local agency shall make all hearing records and decisions available for public inspection and copying; however, the names and addresses of participants and other members of the public shall be kept confidential.
