
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart D - Participant Benefits
####### ยง 246.10 Supplemental foods.
######## State agency responsibilities.

(b)(1) State agencies may:

(i) Establish criteria in addition to the minimum Federal requirements in Table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) of this section for the supplemental foods in their States, except that the State agency may not selectively choose which eligible fruits and vegetables are available to participants. These State agency criteria could address, but not be limited to, other nutritional standards, competitive cost, State-wide availability, and participant appeal. For eligible fruits and vegetables, State agencies may restrict packaging, e.g., plastic containers, and package sizes, such as single serving, of processed fruits and vegetables available for purchase with the cash-value voucher. In addition, State agencies may identify certain processed WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables on food lists where the potential exists for vendor or participant confusion in determining authorized WIC-eligible items.

(ii) Make food package adjustments to better accommodate participants who are homeless. At the State agency's option, these adjustments would include, but not be limited to, issuing authorized supplemental foods in individual serving-size containers to accommodate lack of food storage or preparation facilities.

(2) State agencies must:

(i) Identify the brands of foods and package sizes that are acceptable for use in the Program in their States in accordance with the requirements of this section. State agencies must also provide to local agencies, and include in the State Plan, a list of acceptable foods and their maximum monthly allowances as specified in Tables 1 through 4 of paragraphs (e)(9) through (e)(12) of this section; and

(ii) Ensure that local agencies:

(A) Make available to participants the maximum monthly allowances of authorized supplemental foods, except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section, and abide by the authorized substitution rates for WIC food substitutions as specified in Tables 1 through 3 of paragraphs (e)(9) through (e)(11) of this section;

(B) Make available to participants more than one food from each WIC food category except for the categories of peanut butter and eggs, and any of the WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables (fresh or processed) in each authorized food package as listed in paragraph (e) of this section;

(C) Authorize only a competent professional authority to prescribe the categories of authorized supplemental foods in quantities that do not exceed the regulatory maximum and are appropriate for the participant, taking into consideration the participant's nutritional and breastfeeding needs; and

(D) Advise participants or their caretaker, when appropriate, that the supplemental foods issued are only for their personal use. However, the supplemental foods are not authorized for participant use while hospitalized on an in-patient basis. In addition, consistent with ยง 246.7(m)(1)(i)(B), supplemental foods are not authorized for use in the preparation of meals served in a communal food service. This restriction does not preclude the provision or use of supplemental foods for individual participants in a nonresidential setting (e.g., child care facility, family day care home, school, or other educational program); a homeless facility that meets the requirements of ยง 246.7(m)(1); or, at the State agency's discretion, a residential institution (e.g., home for pregnant teens, prison, or residential drug treatment center) that meets the requirements currently set forth in ยง 246.7(m)(1) and (m)(2).
