
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart D - Participant Benefits
####### ยง 246.10 Supplemental foods.
######## Infant formula requirements.

(iii)This food package provides iron-fortified infant formula that is not an exempt infant formula and that meets the requirements in Table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) of this section. The issuance of any contract brand or noncontract brand infant formula that contains less than 10 milligrams of iron per liter (at least 1.5 milligrams iron per 100 kilocalories) at standard dilution is prohibited. Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, local agencies must issue as the first choice of issuance the primary contract infant formula, as defined in ยง 246.2, with all other infant formulas issued as an alternative to the primary contract infant formula. Noncontract brand infant formula and any contract brand infant formula that does not meet the requirements in Table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) of this section may be issued in this food package only with medical documentation of the qualifying condition. A health care professional licensed by the State to write prescriptions must make a medical determination and provide medical documentation that indicates the need for the infant formula. For situations that do not require the use of an exempt infant formula, such determinations include, but are not limited to, documented formula intolerance, food allergy or inappropriate growth pattern. Medical documentation must meet the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section.
