
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart F - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation
##### ยง 2.43 Chief, Natural Resources and Conservation Service.
###### 2

() To the Rural Housing Service in connection with their loan and land disposition programs.

(ii) Soil Surveys, including:

(A) Providing leadership for the Federal part of the National Cooperative Soil Survey which includes conducting and publishing soil surveys;

(B) Conducting soil surveys for resource planning and development; and

(C) Performing the cartographic services essential to carrying out the functions of the Natural Resources Conservation Service, including furnishing photographs, mosaics, and maps.

(iii) Conducting and coordinating snow surveys and making water supply forecasts pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. IV of 1940 (5 U.S.C. App.);

(iv) Operating plant materials centers for the assembly and testing of plant species in conservation programs, including the use, administration, and disposition of lands under the administration of the Natural Resources Conservation Service for such purposes under title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011); and

(v) Providing leadership in the inventorying and monitoring of soil, water, land, and related resources of the Nation.

(4) Administer the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Programs, including:

(i) The eleven authorized watershed projects authorized under the Flood Control Act of 1944 (Pub. L. 78-534), except for responsibilities assigned to the Forest Service;

(ii) The emergency flood control work under 33 U.S.C. 701b-1, except for responsibilities assigned to the Forest Service;

(iii) The Cooperative River Basin Surveys and Investigations Programs under 16 U.S.C. 1006, except for responsibilities assigned to the Forest Service;

(iv) The pilot watershed projects under 16 U.S.C. 590a-f, and 16 U.S.C. 1001-1009, except for responsibilities assigned to the Forest Service;

(v) The Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Program under 16 U.S.C. 1001-1010, including rehabilitation of water resource structural measures constructed under certain Department of Agriculture programs under 16 U.S.C. 1012, except for responsibilities assigned to the Rural Housing Service and the Forest Service.

(vi) The joint investigations and surveys with the Department of the Army under 16 U.S.C. 1009; and

(vii) The Emergency Conservation Program and the Emergency Watershed Protection Program under sections 401-405 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978, 16 U.S.C. 2201-2205, except for the provisions of sections 401 and 402, 16 U.S.C. 2201-2202, as administered by the Farm Service Agency.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Administer the Resource Conservation and Development Program under 16 U.S.C. 590a-f; 7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; and 16 U.S.C. 3451-3461, except for responsibilities assigned to the Rural Utilities Service.

(7) Responsibility for entering into long-term contracts for carrying out conservation and environmental measures in watershed areas.
