
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart D - Participant Benefits
####### ยง 246.10 Supplemental foods.
######## Infant Formula.

(1)State agencies must use the maximum monthly allowance of reconstituted fluid ounces of liquid concentrate infant formula as specified in Table 1 of paragraph (e)(9) of this section as the full nutritional benefit (FNB) provided by infant formula for each food package category and infant feeding option (e.g., Food Package I A fully formula fed, IA-FF).

(i) For State agencies that use rounding up of infant formula, the FNB is determined over the timeframe (the number of months) that the participant receives the food package. In any given month of the timeframe, the monthly issuance of reconstituted fluid ounces of infant formula may exceed the maximum monthly allowance or fall below the FNB; however, the cumulative average over the timeframe may not fall below the FNB. In addition, the State agency must:

(A) Use the methodology described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section for calculating and dispersing the rounding up option;

(B) Issue infant formula in whole containers that are all the same size; and

(C) Disperse the number of whole containers as evenly as possible over the timeframe with the largest monthly issuances given in the beginning of the timeframe.

(ii) The methodology to calculate rounding up and dispersing infant formula to the next whole container over the food package timeframe is as follows:

(A) Multiply the FNB amount for the appropriate food package and feeding option (e.g. Food Package I A fully formula fed, IA-FF) by the timeframe the participant will receive the food package to determine the total amount of infant formula to be provided.

(B) Divide the total amount of infant formula to be provided by the yield of the container (in reconstituted fluid ounces) issued by the State agency to determine the total number of containers to be issued during the timeframe that the food package is prescribed.

(C) If the number of containers to be issued does not result in a whole number of containers, the State agency must round up to the next whole container in order to issue whole containers.
