
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart D - Participant Benefits
####### ยง 246.10 Supplemental foods.
######## Plans for substitutions.

(i)(1) The State agency may submit to FNS a plan for substitution of food(s) acceptable for use in the Program to allow for different cultural eating patterns. The plan shall provide the State agency's justification, including a specific explanation of the cultural eating pattern and other information necessary for FNS to evaluate the plan as specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.

(2) FNS will evaluate a State agency's plan for substitution of foods for different cultural eating patterns based on the following criteria:

(i) Any proposed substitute food must be nutritionally equivalent or superior to the food it is intended to replace.

(ii) The proposed substitute food must be widely available to participants in the areas where the substitute is intended to be used.

(iii) The cost of the substitute food must be equivalent to or less than the cost of the food it is intended to replace.

(3) FNS will make a determination on the proposed plan based on the evaluation criteria specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, as appropriate. The State agency shall substitute foods only after receiving the written approval of FNS.
