
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart D - Participant Benefits
####### ยง 246.11 Nutrition education.
######## Participant contacts.

(e)(1) The nutrition education including breastfeeding promotion and support, contacts shall be made available through individual or group sessions which are appropriate to the individual participant's nutritional needs. All pregnant participants shall be encouraged to breastfeed unless contraindicated for health reasons.

(2) During each six-month certification period, at least two nutrition contacts shall be made available to all adult participants and the parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, and wherever possible, the child participants themselves.

(3) Nutrition education contacts shall be made available at a quarterly rate to parents or caretakers of infant and child participants certified for a period in excess of six months. Nutrition education contacts shall be scheduled on a periodic basis by the local agency, but such contacts do not necessarily need to take place in each quarter of the certification period.

(4) The local agency shall document in each participant's certification file that nutrition education has been given to the participant in accordance with State agency standards, except that the second or any subsequent nutrition education contact during a certification period that is provided to a participant in a group setting may be documented in a masterfile. Should a participant miss a nutrition education appointment, the local agency shall, for purposes of monitoring and further education efforts, document this fact in the participant's file, or, at the local agency's discretion, in the case of a second or subsequent missed contact where the nutrition education was offered in a group setting, document this fact in a master file.

(5) An individual care plan shall be provided for a participant based on the need for such plan as determined by the competent professional authority, except that any participant, parent, or caretaker shall receive such plan upon request.

(6) Contacts shall be designed to meet different cultural and language needs of Program participants.
