
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart D - Participant Benefits
####### ยง 246.11 Nutrition education.
######## State agency responsibilities.

(c)The State agency shall perform the following activities in carrying out nutrition education responsibilities, including breastfeeding promotion and support,:

(1) Develop and coordinate the nutrition education component of Program operations with consideration of local agency plans, needs and available nutrition education resources.

(2) Provide in-service training and technical assistance for professional and para-professional personnel involved in providing nutrition education to participants at local agencies. The State agency shall also provide training on the promotion and management of breastfeeding to staff at local agencies who will provide information and assistance on this subject to participants.

(3) Identify or develop resources and educational materials for use in local agencies, including breastfeeding promotion and instruction materials, taking reasonable steps to include materials in languages other than English in areas where a significant number or proportion of the population needs the information in a language other than English, considering the size and concentration of such population and, where possible, the reading level of participants.

(4) Develop and implement procedures to ensure that nutrition education is offered to all adult participants and to parents and guardians of infant or child participants, as well as child participants, whenever possible.

(5) Monitor local agency activities to ensure compliance with provisions set forth in paragraphs (c)(7), (d), and (e) of this section.

(6) Establish standards for participant contacts that ensure adequate nutrition education in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(7) Establish standards for breastfeeding promotion and support which include, at a minimum, the following:

(i) A policy that creates a positive clinic environment which endorses breastfeeding as the preferred method of infant feeding;

(ii) A requirement that each local agency designate a staff person to coordinate breastfeeding promotion and support activities;

(iii) A requirement that each local agency incorporate task-appropriate breastfeeding promotion and support training into orientation programs for new staff involved in direct contact with WIC clients; and

(iv) A plan to ensure that women have access to breastfeeding promotion and support activities during the prenatal and postpartum periods.

(8) Determine if local agencies or clinics can share nutrition educational materials with institutions participating in the Child and Adult Care Food Program established under section 17 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766) at no cost to that program, if a written materials sharing agreement exists between the relevant agencies.
