
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## Business integrity.

(ii)The State agency must consider the business integrity of a vendor applicant. In determining the business integrity of a vendor applicant, the State agency may rely solely on facts already known to it and representations made by the vendor applicant on its vendor application. The State agency is not required to establish a formal system of background checks for vendor applicants. Unless denying authorization of a vendor applicant would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency may not authorize a vendor applicant if during the last six years the vendor applicant or any of the vendor applicant's current owners, officers, or managers have been convicted of or had a civil judgment entered against them for any activity indicating a lack of business integrity. Activities indicating a lack of business integrity include fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, and obstruction of justice. The State agency may add other types of convictions or civil judgments to this list.
