
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## Vendors that meet the above-50-percent criterion.

(i)Vendors that derive more than 50 percent of their annual food sales revenue from WIC food instruments, and new vendor applicants expected to meet this criterion under guidelines approved by FNS, are defined as above-50-percent vendors. Each State agency annually must implement procedures approved by FNS to identify authorized vendors and vendor applicants as either above-50-percent vendors or regular vendors, in accordance with paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(E) and (g)(4)(i)(F) of this section. The State agency must receive FNS certification of its vendor cost containment system under section 246.12(g)(4)(vi) prior to authorizing any above-50-percent vendors. The State agency that chooses to authorize any above-50-percent vendors:

(A) Must distinguish these vendors from other authorized vendors in its peer group system or its alternative cost containment system approved by FNS by establishing separate peer groups for above-50-percent vendors or by placing above-50-percent vendors in peer groups with other vendors and establishing distinct competitive price selection criteria and allowable reimbursement levels for the above-50-percent vendors;

(B) Must reassess the status of new vendors within six months after authorization to determine whether or not the vendors are above-50-percent vendors, and must take necessary follow-up action, such as terminating vendor agreements or reassigning vendors to the appropriate peer group;

(C) Must compare above-50-percent vendors' prices against the prices of vendors that do not meet the above-50-percent criterion in determining whether the above-50-percent vendors have competitive prices and in establishing allowable reimbursement levels for such vendors; and

(D) Must ensure that the prices of above-50-percent vendors do not inflate the competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels for the peer groups or result in higher total food costs if program participants transact their food instruments at above-50-percent vendors rather than at other vendors that do not meet the above-50-percent criterion. To comply with this requirement, the State agency must compare the average cost of each type of food instrument redeemed by above-50-percent vendors against the average cost of the same type of food instrument redeemed by regular vendors. The average cost per food instrument may be weighted to reflect the relative proportion of food instruments redeemed by each category of vendors in the peer group system. The State agency must compute statewide average costs per food instrument at least quarterly to monitor compliance with this requirement. If average payments per food instrument for above-50-percent vendors exceed average payments per food instrument to regular vendors, then the State agency must take necessary action to ensure compliance, such as adjusting payment levels. Where EBT systems are in use, it may be more appropriate to compare prices of individual WIC food items to ensure that average payments to above-50-percent vendors do not exceed average payments for the same food item to comparable vendors. If FNS determines that a State agency has failed to ensure that above-50-percent vendors do not result in higher costs to the program than if participants transact their food instruments at regular vendors, FNS will establish a claim against the State agency to recover excess food funds expended and will require remedial action. A State agency may exclude partially-redeemed food instruments from a quarterly cost neutrality assessment based on an empirical methodology approved by FNS. A State agency may not exclude food instruments from the quarterly cost neutrality assessment based on a rate of partially-redeemed food instruments.
