
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## i.e.

(E) Must determine whether vendor applicants are expected to be above-50-percent vendors. The State agency must ask vendor applicants whether they expect to derive more than 50 percent of their annual revenue from the sale of food items from transactions involving WIC food instruments. This question applies whether or not the State agency chooses to authorize above-50-percent vendors. A vendor who answers in the affirmative must be treated as an above-50-percent vendor. The State agency must further assess a vendor who answers in the negative, by first calculating WIC redemptions as a percent of total food sales in existing WIC-authorized stores owned by the vendor applicant. Second, the State agency must calculate or request from the vendor applicant the percentage of anticipated food sales by type of payment,, cash, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, WIC, and credit/debit card. Third, the State agency must review either the inventory invoices for food items, or the actual food items present at the preauthorization visit required by paragraph (g)(5) of this section, or both. Fourth, the State agency must determine whether WIC authorization is required in order for the store to open for business. If the vendor would be expected to be an above-50-percent vendor under any of these criteria, then the vendor must be treated as an above-50-percent vendor. State agencies may use additional data sources and methodologies, if approved by FNS.

(F) Must determine whether a currently authorized vendor meets the above-50-percent criterion, based on the State agency's calculation of WIC redemptions as a percent of the vendor's total foods sales for the same period. If WIC redemptions are more than 50 percent of the total food sales, the vendor must be deemed to be an above-50-percent vendor. As an initial step in identifying above-50-percent vendors, the State agency may compare each vendor's WIC redemptions to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program redemptions for the same period. If more than one WIC State agency authorizes a particular vendor, then each State agency must obtain and add the WIC redemptions for each State agency that authorizes the vendor to derive the total WIC redemptions. If Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program redemptions exceed WIC redemptions, no further assessment is required since the vendor would not be an above-50-percent vendor. For vendors whose WIC redemptions exceed their Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program redemptions, or if this comparison of redemptions was not made, the State agency must obtain from these vendors a statement of the total amount of revenue derived from the sale of foods that could be purchased using Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits. The State agency must also obtain from these vendors documentation (such as tax documents or other verifiable documentation) to support the amount of food sales claimed by the vendor. After evaluating the documentation received from the vendor, the State agency must calculate WIC redemptions as a percent of total food sales and classify the vendor as meeting or not meeting the above-50- percent criterion. State agencies may use additional methods, if approved by FNS.
