
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## Cost containment certification.

(vi)If a State agency elects to authorize any above-50-percent vendors, the State agency must submit information, in accordance with guidance provided by FNS, to demonstrate that its competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels do not result in average payments per food instrument to these vendors that are higher than average payments per food instrument to comparable vendors that are not above-50-percent vendors. To calculate average payments per food instrument, the State agency must include either all food instruments redeemed by all authorized vendors or a representative sample of the redeemed food instruments. The State agency must add the redemption amounts for all redeemed food instruments of the same type and divide the sum by the number of food instruments of that type. If the State agency does not designate food instruments by type, it must calculate the average payment for each distinct combination of foods prescribed on the food instrument. The State agency may calculate average payments per food instrument type for groups of vendors that meet the above-50-percent criterion and comparable vendors, or the State agency may calculate average payments for each food instrument type for each vendor. State agencies with EBT systems must compare the average cost of each WIC food purchased by participants at above-50-percent vendors with the average cost of each food purchased from comparable vendors. If FNS determines, based on its review of the information provided by the State agency and any other relevant data, that the requirements in this paragraph have been met, FNS will certify that the State agency's competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels established for above-50-percent vendors do not result in higher average payments per food instrument (or higher costs for each WIC food item in EBT systems). If the State agency's methodology for establishing competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels fails to meet the requirement of this section regarding average food instrument payments to above-50-percent vendors, FNS will disapprove the State agency's request to authorize above-50-percent vendors. At least every three years following initial certification, the State agency must submit information which demonstrates that it continues to meet the requirements of this section relative to average payments to above-50-percent vendors. FNS may require annual updates of selected food instrument redemption data.
