
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart F - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation
##### ยง 2.43 Chief, Natural Resources and Conservation Service.
###### et seq.

(viii) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 9601).

(25) Administer the following provisions of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 with respect to functions otherwise delegated to the Chief, Natural Resources Conservation Service:

(i) The equitable relief provisions of section 1613 (7 U.S.C. 7996); and

(ii) The tracking of benefits under section 1614 (7 U.S.C. 7997).

(26) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(27) In coordination with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(28) Authorize employees of the Natural Resources Conservation Service to carry and use firearms for personal protection while conducting field work in remote locations in the performance of their official duties (7 U.S.C. 2274a).

(29) Conduct activities that assist the Director, Office of Environmental Markets, in developing guidelines regarding the development of environmental services markets.

(30) Administer the Terminal Lakes assistance program authorized by section 2507 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-6).

(31) Enter into cooperative agreements, which may provide for the acquisition of goods or services, including personal services, as authorized by Public Law 106-387 (7 U.S.C. 6962a).

(32) Administer the following provisions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 116-334):

(i) Section 1704 (7 U.S.C. 1308-3a), authorizing waivers of the adjusted gross income limitation.

(ii) In consultation with the Administrator, Farm Service Agency, and the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Section 2707 (16 U.S.C. 1531 note), relating to wildlife management.

(iii) In coordination with the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, Section 2408 (7 U.S.C. 8351 note), relating to the Feral Swine Eradication and Control Pilot Program.

(iv) Section 8628, relating to the purchase of Natural Resources Conservation Service property in Riverside County, California.

(v) Section 12302, relating to the Office of Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production.
