
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## A mandatory sanction by another WIC State agency.

(iii)The State agency may disqualify a vendor that has been disqualified or assessed a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification by another WIC State agency for a mandatory vendor sanction. The length of the disqualification must be for the same length of time as the disqualification by the other WIC State agency or, in the case of a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification assessed by the other WIC State agency, for the same length of time for which the vendor would otherwise have been disqualified. The disqualification may begin at a later date than the sanction imposed by the other WIC State agency. If a State agency decides to exercise this option, the State agency must:

(A) Include notification that it will take such action in its sanction schedule; and

(B) Determine if disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access in accordance with paragraph (l)(8) of this section. If the State agency determines that disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency must impose a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification, except that the State agency may not impose a civil money penalty in situations in which the vendor has been assessed a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification by the other WIC State agency. Any civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification must be calculated in accordance with paragraph (l)(2)(x) of this section. The State agency must include documentation of its participant access determination and any supporting documentation in each vendor's file.
