
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## Farmer agreements for State agencies that do not authorize farmers.

(4)Those State agencies which authorize farmers' markets but not individual farmers shall require authorized farmers' markets to enter into a written agreement with each farmer within the market that is authorized to accept cash-value vouchers. The State agency shall set forth the required terms for the written agreement as defined in ยง 246.12(v)(1) and (v)(2), and provide a sample agreement for use by the farmers' market.

(5) The State agency may deny payment to the farmer or farmers' market for improperly redeemed cash-value vouchers and may demand refunds for payments already made on improperly redeemed vouchers.

(6) The State agency may disqualify a farmer or farmers' market for WIC Program abuse. The farmer or farmers' market has the right to appeal a denial of an application to participate, a disqualification, or a program sanction by the State agency. Expiration of an agreement with a farmer or farmers' market and claims actions under ยง 246.23, are not appealable.

(7) A farmer or farmers' market which commits fraud or engages in other illegal activity is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws.
