
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.12 Food delivery methods.
######## Farmers and farmers' markets.

(v)The State agency may authorize farmers, farmers' markets, and/or roadside stands to accept the cash-value voucher for eligible fruits and vegetables. The State agency must enter into written agreements with all authorized farmers and/or farmers' markets. The agreement must be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmer or farmers' market and a representative of the State agency. The agreement must be for a period not to exceed 3 years. Only farmers or farmers' markets authorized by the State agency may redeem the fruit and vegetable cash-value voucher. The State agency must require farmers or farmers' markets to reapply at the expiration of their agreements and must provide farmers or farmers markets with not less than 15 days advance written notice of the expiration of the agreement.

(1) The agreement must include the following provisions, although the State agency may determine the exact wording. The farmer or farmers' market must:

(i) Assure that the cash-value voucher is redeemed only for eligible fruits and vegetables as defined by the State agency;

(ii) Provide eligible fruits and vegetables at the current price or less than the current price charged to other customers;

(iii) Accept the cash-value voucher within the dates of their validity and submit such vouchers for payment within the allowable time period established by the State agency;

(iv) Redeem the cash-value voucher in accordance with a procedure established by the State agency. Such procedure must include a requirement for the farmer or farmers' market to allow the participant, authorized representative or proxy to pay the difference when the purchase of fruits and vegetables exceeds the value of the cash-value vouchers (also known as a split tender transaction);

(v) Accept training on cash-value voucher procedures and provide training to any employees with cash-value voucher responsibilities on such procedures;

(vi) Agree to be monitored for compliance with program requirements, including both overt and covert monitoring;

(vii) Be accountable for actions of employees in the provision of authorized foods and related activities;

(viii) Pay the State agency for any cash-value vouchers transacted in violation of this agreement;

(ix) Offer WIC participants, parent or caretakers of child participants or proxies the same courtesies as other customers;

(x) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of USDA regulations as provided in ยง 248.7; and

(xi) Notify the State agency if any farmers' market ceases operation prior to the end of the authorization period.

(2) The farmer or farmers' market must not:

(i) Collect sales tax on cash-value voucher purchases;

(ii) Seek restitution from WIC participants, parent or caretakers of child participants or proxies for cash-value vouchers not paid or partially paid by the State agency;

(iii) Issue cash change for purchases that are in an amount less than the value of the cash-value voucher;

(3) Neither the State agency nor the farmer or farmers' market has an obligation to renew the agreement. The State agency, the farmer, or farmers' market may terminate the agreement for cause after providing advance written notification.
