
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart E - Cooperative Production of Television Films
##### ยง 1.75 General stipulations.

In requesting special working arrangements the producer must agree to the following stipulations:

(a) The producer must show that he has legal authority to the literary property concerned.

(b) The producer must show access to a distribution channel recognized by the motion picture or television industry. In lieu of complete distribution plans for a television series, a producer must produce satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility (showing financial resources adequate for the defrayment of costs for the proposed undertaking).

(c) The commercial advertising of any show produced, using oral or written rights granted to the producer, shall not indicate any endorsement, either direct or implied, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture or its agencies, of the sponsor's product.

(d) Commercial sponsorship shall be only by a person, firm, or corporation acceptable under the terms of the 1954 Television Code of the National Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters, and all subsequent amendments thereto. Political sponsorship shall not be permitted.

(e) That no production costs shall be chargeable to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

(f) That such cooperation will not interfere with the conduct of Department programs.

(g) All damages, losses and personal liability incurred by producer will be his responsibility.

(h) That mutual understanding and agreement will be reached upon story, script and film treatment with the Department before film production is begun.
