
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.14 Program costs.
######## Specified allowable nutrition services and administration costs.

(c)Allowable nutrition services and administration (NSA) costs include the following:

(1) The cost of nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support which meets the requirements of ยง 246.11. During each fiscal year, each State agency shall expend, for nutrition education activities and breastfeeding promotion and support activities, an aggregate amount that is not less than the sum of one-sixth of the amount expended by the State agency for costs of NSA and an amount equal to its proportionate share of the national minimum expenditure for breastfeeding promotion and support activities. The amount to be spent on nutrition education shall be computed by taking one-sixth of the total fiscal year NSA expenditures. The amount to be spent by a State agency on breastfeeding promotion and support activities shall be an amount that is equal to at least its proportionate share of the national minimum breastfeeding promotion expenditure as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The national minimum expenditure for breastfeeding promotion and support activities shall be equal to $21 multiplied by the number of pregnant and breastfeeding women in the Program, based on the average of the last three months for which the Department has final data. On October 1, 1996 and each October 1 thereafter, the $21 will be adjusted annually using the same inflation percentage used to determine the national administrative grant per person. If the State agency's total reported nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support expenditures are less than the required amount of expenditures, FNS will issue a claim for the difference. The State agency may request prior written permission from FNS to spend less than the required portions of its NSA grant for either nutrition education or for breastfeeding promotion and support activities. FNS will grant such permission if the State agency has sufficiently documented that other resources, including in-kind resources, will be used to conduct these activities at a level commensurate with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1). However, food costs used to purchase or rent breast pumps may not be used for this purpose. Nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, costs are limited to activities which are distinct and separate efforts to help participants understand the importance of nutrition to health. The cost of dietary assessments for the purpose of certification, the cost of prescribing and issuing supplemental foods, the cost of screening for drug and other harmful substance use and making referrals to drug and other harmful substance abuse services, and the cost of other health-related screening shall not be applied to the expenditure requirement for nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support activities. The Department shall advise State agencies regarding methods for minimizing documentation of the nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support expenditure requirement. Costs to be applied to the one-sixth minimum amount required to be spent on nutrition education and the target share of funds required to be spent on breastfeeding promotion and support include, but need not be limited to-

(i) Salary and other costs for time spent on nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support consultations whether with an individual or group;

(ii) The cost of procuring and producing nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support materials including handouts, flip charts, filmstrips, projectors, food models or other teaching aids, and the cost of mailing nutrition education or breastfeeding promotion and support materials to participants;

(iii) The cost of training nutrition or breastfeeding promotion and support educators, including costs related to conducting training sessions and purchasing and producing training materials;

(iv) The cost of conducting evaluations of nutrition education or breastfeeding promotion and support activities, including evaluations conducted by contractors;

(v) Salary and other costs incurred in developing the nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support portion of the State Plan and local agency nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support plans; and

(vi) The cost of monitoring nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support activities.

(2) The cost of Program certification, nutrition assessment and procedures and equipment used to determine nutritional risk, including the following:

(i) Laboratory fees incurred for up to two hematological tests for anemia per individual per certification period. The first test shall be to determine anemia status. The second test may be performed only in follow up to a finding of anemia when deemed necessary for health monitoring as determined by the WIC State agency;

(ii) Expendable medical supplies;

(iii) Medical equipment used for taking anthropometric measurements, such as scales, measuring boards, and skin fold calipers; and for blood analysis to detect anemia, such as spectrophotometers, hematofluorometers and centrifuges; and

(iv) Salary and other costs for time spent on nutrition assessment and certification.

(3) The cost of outreach services.

(4) The cost of administering the food delivery system, including the cost of transporting food.

(5) The cost of translators for materials and interpreters.

(6) The cost of fair hearings, including the cost of an independent medical assessment of the appellant, if necessary.

(7) The cost of transporting participants to clinics when prior approval for using Program funds to provide transportation has been granted by the State agency and documentation that such service is considered essential to assure Program access has been filed at the State agency. Direct reimbursement to participants for transportation cost is not an allowable cost.

(8) The cost of monitoring and reviewing Program operations.

(9) The cost, exclusive of laboratory tests, of screening for drug and other harmful substance use and making referrals for counseling and treatment services.

(10) The cost of breastfeeding aids which directly support the initiation and continuation of breastfeeding.
