
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.14 Program costs.
######## Use of funds recovered from vendors, participants, or local agencies.

(e)(1) The State agency may keep funds collected through the recovery of claims assessed against vendors, participants, or local agencies. Recovered funds include those withheld from a vendor as a result of reviews of food instruments prior to payment. Recovered funds may be used for either food or NSA costs.

(2) These recovered funds may be used in the fiscal year:

(i) In which the initial obligation was made;

(ii) In which the claim arose;

(iii) In which the funds are collected; or

(iv) after the funds are collected.

(3) The State agency may not credit any recoveries until:

(i) In the case of a vendor claim, the vendor has had the opportunity to correct or justify the error or apparent overcharge in accordance with ยง 246.12(k)(3);

(ii) In the case of a participant, any administrative hearing requested in accordance with ยง 246.9 has been completed; or

(iii) In the case of a local agency claim, any administrative review requested in accordance with the local agency agreement has been completed.

(4) The State agency must report vendor, participant, and local agency recoveries to FNS through the normal reporting process;

(5) The State agency must keep documentation supporting the amount and use of these vendor, participant, and local agency recoveries.
