
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.16 Distribution of funds.
######## Distribution of funds to local agencies.

(d)The State agency shall provide to local agencies all funds made available by the Department, except those funds necessary for allowable State agency NSA costs and food costs paid directly by the State agency. The State agency shall distribute the funds based on claims submitted at least quarterly by the local agency. Where the State agency advances funds to local agencies, the State agency shall ensure that each local agency has funds to cover immediate disbursement needs, and the State agency shall offset the advances made against incoming claims as they are submitted to ensure that funding levels reflect the actual expenditures reported by the local agency. Upon receipt of Program funds from the Department, the State agency shall take the following actions:

(1) Distribute funds to cover expected food cost expenditures and/or distribute caseload targets to each local agency which are used to project food cost expenditures.

(2) Allocate funds to cover expected local agency NSA costs in a manner which takes into consideration each local agency's needs. For the allocation of NSA funds, the State agency shall develop an NSA funding procedure, in cooperation with representative local agencies, which takes into account the varying needs of the local agencies. The State agency shall consider the views of local agencies, but the final decision as to the funding procedure remains with the State agency. The State agency shall take into account factors it deems appropriate to further proper, efficient and effective administration of the program, such as local agency staffing needs, density of population, number of persons served, and availability of administrative support from other sources.

(3) The State agency may provide in advance to any local agency any amount of funds for NSA deemed necessary for the successful commencement or significant expansion of program operations during a reasonable period following approval of a new local agency, a new cost containment measure, or a significant change in an existing cost containment measure.
