
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.16a Infant formula and authorized foods cost containment.
######## Calculating the standardized number of units of infant formula.

(i)The State agency must specify a standardized number of units (e.g., cans) of infant formula by physical form (e.g., concentrated liquid, powdered, and ready-to-feed) to be bid upon. The standardized number of units must contain the equivalent of the total number of ounces by physical form needed to give the maximum allowance to the average monthly number of infants using each form. The number of infants does not include infant participants who are exclusively breastfed and those who are issued exempt infant formula. The average monthly number of infant using each physical form must be based on at least 6 months of the most recent participation and issuance data. In order to calculate the standardized number of units of infant formula by form to be bid upon, the average monthly number of infants using each physical form is multiplied by the maximum monthly allowable number of ounces for each form (as allowed under ยง 246.10(e)(9)(Table1)), and divided by the corresponding unit size (i.e., number of ounces per unit being bid). In order to compare bids, total cost is calculated by multiplying this standardized number of units by the net price for each physical form. Alternative calculations that arrive at a mathematically equivalent result are acceptable.
