
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.16a Infant formula and authorized foods cost containment.
######## Separate solicitations.

(ii)Under the separate solicitation system, a State agency issues two bid solicitations. Any State agency or alliance that served a monthly average of more than 100,000 infants during the preceding 12-month period shall issue separate bid solicitations for milk-based and soy-based infant formula. The first solicitation must require the winning bidder to supply and provide a rebate on all milk-based infant formulas it produces that the State agency chooses to issue, except exempt infant formulas. Rebates must also be paid on any new milk-based infant formulas that are introduced by the manufacturer after the contract is awarded. These infant formulas are considered to be contract brand infant formulas. The second bid solicitation must require the winning bidder to supply and provide a rebate on all soy-based infant formulas it produces that the State agency chooses to issue. Rebates must also be paid on any new soy-based infant formulas that are introduced by the manufacturer after the contract is awarded. These infant formulas are also considered to be contract brand infant formulas.
