
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.16a Infant formula and authorized foods cost containment.
######## et seq.

(v) FNS will solicit bids for rebates only from infant formula manufacturers. FNS may limit advertising to contacting in writing each infant formula manufacturer which has registered with the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

(6) FNS will select the winning bidder(s). The winning bidder(s) will be the responsive and responsible bidder(s) meeting the specifications and all bid terms and conditions which offers the lowest net price weighted to take into account infant formula usage rates and infant participation. In all instances the winning bidder(s) will be those which singly or in combination yield the greatest aggregate savings based on the net price weighted to take into account the infant formula usage rates. To break a tie between 2 equally low bids, FNS will select the bidder to be awarded the infant formula cost containment contract by a drawing by lot limited to the bidders which submitted those bids.

(7) Once FNS has conducted bid selection, a State agency may decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) only if the State agency determines that awarding the contract(s) would not be in the best interests of its Program, taking into account whether the national bid solicitation and selection would achieve a lower aggregate savings.

(8) As soon as practicable after selecting the winning bid(s), FNS will notify the affected State agencies in writing of the bid results, including the name(s) of the winning bidder(s). If a State agency chooses to request approval to decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) in accordance with paragraph (l)(7) of this section, it must notify FNS in writing, signed by a responsible State agency official, together with supporting documentation, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by hand delivery with evidence of receipt within 10 days of the State agency's receipt of this notification of bid results.

(9) If FNS approves any State agency's request to decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) in accordance with paragraphs (l)(7) and (l)(8) of this section, FNS will notify the bidders of the decision. If two or more State agencies remain in the group, FNS will require the bidders to indicate in writing whether they wish to withdraw or modify their bids within 5 days of receipt of this notification. FNS will again permit State agencies to decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) in accordance with paragraphs (l)(7) and (l)(8) of this section. If FNS approves these additional State agency requests to decline contract awards, FNS may conduct a resolicitation of bids in accordance with this paragraph (l).
