
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.16a Infant formula and authorized foods cost containment.
######## What are the requirements for the national cost containment bid solicitation and selection for infant formula?

(l)FNS will solicit and select bids for infant formula rebates on behalf of State agencies with retail food delivery systems based on the following guidelines:

(1) FNS will solicit bids and select the winning bidder(s) for infant formula cost containment contracts only if two or more State agencies with retail food delivery systems request FNS to conduct bid solicitation and selection on their behalf. FNS will conduct the bid solicitation and selection process only and will not award or enter into any infant formula cost containment contract on behalf of the individual State agencies. Each State agency will individually award and enter into infant formula cost containment contract(s) with the winning bidder(s). State agencies must obtain the rebates directly from the infant formula manufacturer(s). FNS will conduct the bid solicitation in accordance with this paragraph (l) and the competitive bidding procurement procedures of the State agency with the highest infant participation in the bid group on whose behalf bids are being solicited. Any bid protests and contractual disputes are the responsibility of the individual State agencies to resolve.

(2) FNS will make a written offer to all State agencies to conduct bid solicitation and selection on their behalf at least once every 12 months. FNS will send State agencies a copy of the draft Request for Rebates when making the offer to State agencies. Only State agencies that provide the information required by this paragraph (l)(2) in writing, signed by a responsible State agency official, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by hand delivery with evidence of receipt within 15 days of receipt of the offer will be included in the national bid solicitation and selection process. Each interested State agency must provide:

(i) A statement that the State agency requests FNS to conduct bid solicitation and selection on its behalf;

(ii) A statement of the State agency's minimum procurement procedures applicable to competitive bidding (as defined in ยง 246.2) for infant formula cost containment contracts and supporting documentation;

(iii) A statement of any limitation on the duration of infant formula cost containment contracts and supporting documentation;

(iv) A statement of any contractual provisions required to be included in infant formula cost containment contracts by the State agency;

(v) The most recent available average monthly number of infant participants less those infant participants who are exclusively breastfed and those who are issued exempt infant formula. The average monthly participation level must be based on at least 6 months of participation data.

(vi) Infant formula usage rates by type (e.g., milk-based or soy-based), form (e.g., concentrated, powdered, ready-to-feed), container size, and supporting documentation;

(vii) A statement of the termination date of the State agency's current infant formula cost containment contract; and

(viii) Any other related information that FNS may request.

(3) If FNS determines that the number of State agencies making the request provided for in paragraph (l)(2) of this section does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, FNS shall, in consultation with such State agencies, divide such State agencies into more than one group and solicit bids for each group. These groups of State agencies are referred to as "bid groups." In determining the size and composition of the bid groups, FNS will, to the extent practicable, take into account the need to maximize the number of potential bidders so as to increase competition among infant formula manufacturers and the similarities in the State agencies' procurement and contract requirements (as provided by the State agencies in accordance with paragraphs (l)(2)(ii), (l)(2)(iii), and (l)(2)(iv) of this section). FNS reserves the right to exclude a State agency from the national bid solicitation and selection process if FNS determines that the State agency's procurement requirements or contractual requirements are so dissimilar from those of the other State agencies in any bid group that the State agency's inclusion in the bid group could adversely affect the bids.

(4) For each bid group formed pursuant to paragraphs (l)(2) and (l)(3) of this section, FNS will use for soliciting bids the competitive bidding procurement procedures of the State agency in the group with the highest infant participation. To the extent not inconsistent with the requirements of this paragraph (l), FNS will use that set of procedures in soliciting the bids for that bid group of State agencies. FNS will notify each State agency in the bid group of the choice and provide them each a copy of the procurement procedures of the chosen State agency. Each State agency must provide FNS a written statement, signed by a responsible State agency official, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by hand delivery with evidence of receipt stating whether that State agency is legally authorized to award an infant formula cost containment contract pursuant to that set of procedures within 10 days of the receipt of the notification. If the State agency determines it is not legally authorized to award an infant formula cost containment contract pursuant to those procedures, that State agency may not continue in that round of the national bid solicitation and selection.

(5) At a minimum, in soliciting bids FNS will address the following:

(i) Unless FNS determines that doing so would not be in the best interest of the Program, bids will be solicited for either:

(A) A single contract for each State agency under which the winning bidder will be required to supply and provide rebates on all infant formulas produced by that manufacturer (except exempt infant formulas) that are issued by the State agency. If that manufacturer does not produce a soy-based infant formula, the winning bidder will be required to subcontract with another manufacturer for a soy-based infant formula and the winning bidder will be required to pay a rebate on the soy-based infant formula; or

(B) Two separate contracts for each State agency. Under the first contract, the winning bidder will supply and provide a rebate on all the milk-based infant formulas the winning bidder produces (except exempt infant formulas) that are issued by the State agency and under the second contract the winning bidder will supply and provide a rebate on all the soy-based infant formulas the winning bidder produces (except exempt infant formulas) that are issued by the State agency.

(ii) The infant formula cost containment contract(s) to be entered into by the State agencies and infant formula manufacturers must provide for a constant net price for infant formula for the full term of the infant formula cost containment contract(s).

(iii) The duration of the infant formula cost containment contracts for each bid group will be determined by FNS in consultation with the State agencies. The term will be for a period of not less than 2 years, unless the law applicable to a State agency regarding the duration of infant formula cost containment contracts is more restrictive than this paragraph (l)(5)(iii). In such cases, the term of the contract for only that State agency will be for one year, with the option provided to the State agency to extend the contract for a specified number of additional years (to be determined by FNS in consultation with the State agency). The date on which the individual State agencies' current infant formula cost containment contracts terminate may vary, so the infant formula cost containment contracts awarded by the State agencies within a bid group may begin on different dates.

(iv) FNS will not prescribe conditions that are prohibited under paragraph (j) of this section.
