
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart G - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Rural Development
##### ยง 2.47 Administrator, Rural Utilities Service.
###### et seq.

(4) Administer the following sections of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921,):

(i) Section 306 (7 U.S.C. 1926), related to water and waste facilities.

(ii) Section 306A (7 U.S.C. 1926a).

(iii) Section 306B (7 U.S.C. 1926b).

(iv) Section 306C (7 U.S.C. 1926c).

(v) Section 306D (7 U.S.C. 1926d).

(vii) Section 306E (7 U.S.C. 1926e).

(vii) Sections 309 (7 U.S.C. 1929 and 309A (7 U.S.C. 1929a), relating to assets and programs related to watershed facilities, resource and conservation facilities, and water and waste facilities.

(viii) Section 305 (7 U.S.C. 1926) relating to hazardous weather early warning systems.

(ix) Section 310A (7 U.S.C. 1931), relating to watershed and resource conservation and development.

(x) Section 310B(b) (7 U.S.C. 1932(b)).

(xi)-(xii) [Reserved]

(xiii) Administrative Provisions of subtitle D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act relating to Rural Utilities Service activities.

(xiv) Section 379B (7 U.S.C. 2009;).

(5) Administer section 8, and those functions with respect to repayment of obligations under section 4, of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1006a, 1004) and administer the Resource Conservation and Development Program to assist in carrying out resource conservation and development projects in rural areas under section 32(e) of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(e)).

(6) Administer the Water and Waste Loan Program (7 U.S.C. 1926-1).

(7) Administer the Rural Wastewater Treatment Circuit Rider Program (7 U.S.C. 1926 note).

(8) Collect, service, and liquidate loans made, insured, or guaranteed by the Rural Utilities Service or its predecessor agencies.

(9) Consult with the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information to assist in the verification of eligibility of the broadband loan and grant programs of the Department of Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 950bb-6).
