
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 246.18 Administrative review of State agency actions.
######## Full administrative review procedures.

(b)The State agency must develop procedures for a full administrative review of the adverse actions listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section. At a minimum, these procedures must provide the vendor, farmer or farmers' market or local agency with the following:

(1) Written notification of the adverse action, the procedures to follow to obtain a full administrative review and the cause(s) for and the effective date of the action. When a vendor is disqualified due in whole or in part to violations in ยง 246.12(l)(1), such notification must include the following statement: "This disqualification from WIC may result in disqualification as a retailer in SNAP. Such disqualification is not subject to administrative or judicial review under SNAP."

(2) The opportunity to appeal the adverse action within a time period specified by the State agency in its notification of adverse action.

(3) Adequate advance notice of the time and place of the administrative review to provide all parties involved sufficient time to prepare for the review.

(4) The opportunity to present its case and at least one opportunity to reschedule the administrative review date upon specific request. The State agency may set standards on how many review dates can be scheduled, provided that a minimum of two review dates is allowed.

(5) The opportunity to cross-examine adverse witnesses. When necessary to protect the identity of WIC Program investigators, such examination may be conducted behind a protective screen or other device (also referred to as an "in camera" examination).

(6) The opportunity to be represented by counsel.

(7) The opportunity to examine prior to the review the evidence upon which the State agency's action is based.

(8) An impartial decision-maker, whose determination is based solely on whether the State agency has correctly applied Federal and State statutes, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the Program, according to the evidence presented at the review. The State agency may appoint a reviewing official, such as a chief hearing officer or judicial officer, to review appeal decisions to ensure that they conform to approved policies and procedures.

(9) Written notification of the review decision, including the basis for the decision, within 90 days from the date of receipt of the request for an administrative review from a vendor, farmer, or farmer's market, and within 60 days from the date of receipt of a local agency's request for an administrative review. These timeframes are only administrative requirements for the State agency and do not provide a basis for overturning the State agency's adverse action if a decision is not made within the specified timeframe.
