
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart G - Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 246.22 Administrative appeal of FNS decisions.
######## Right to appeal.

(a)When FNS asserts a sanction against a State agency under the provisions of ยง 246.19, the State agency may appeal and must be afforded a hearing or review by an FNS Administrative Review Officer. The right of appeal shall not apply to claims for repayment assessed by FNS against the State agency under ยง 246.23(a). A State agency shall have the option of requesting a hearing to present its position or a review of pertinent documents and records including any additional written submission prepared by the State agency.

(1) FNS will send a written notice by Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested to the state agency or otherwise ensure receipt of such notice by the agency when asserting a sanction against a State agency as specified in ยง 246.19(a).

(2) A State agency aggrieved by a sanction asserted against it may file a written request with the Director, Administrative Review Division, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22302, for a hearing or a review of the record. Such request shall be sent by Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested and postmarked within 30 days of the date of receipt of the sanction notice. The envelope containing the request shall be prominently marked "REQUEST FOR REVIEW OR HEARING." The request shall clearly identify the specific FNS sanction(s) being appealed and shall include a photocopy of the FNS notice of sanction. If the State agency does not request a review of hearing within 30 days of receipt of the notice, the administrative decision on the sanctions will be considered final.
