
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart G - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Rural Development
##### ยง 2.47 Administrator, Rural Utilities Service.
###### et seq.

(13) Administer the Distance Learning and Medical Link Programs (7 U.S.C. 950aaa).

(14) Administer water and waste facility programs and activities (7 U.S.C. 1926-1).

(15) In coordination with the Office of Tribal Relations, provide technical assistance to improve access by Tribal entities to rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture through available cooperative agreement authorities (7 U.S.C. 2671).

(16) In coordination with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(17) Administer section 6407 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a), relating to a rural energy savings program.

(18) Administer section 6210 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79, relating to funding of pending rural development loan and grant applications.

(19) Administer the authority under Sec. 746 of Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub. L. 115-141), and any successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts, to issue waivers to the U.S. iron and steel requirements for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater system.
