
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 246 - SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN
###### Subpart G - Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 246.25 Records and reports.
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(a)Each State and local agency shall maintain full and complete records concerning Program operations. Such records shall comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:

(1) Records shall include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to financial operations, food delivery systems, food instrument issuance and redemption, equipment purchases and inventory, certification, nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, civil rights and fair hearing procedures.

(2) All records shall be retained for a minimum of three years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the three-year period, the records shall be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular three-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the Program records to be of historical interest, it may require the State or local agency to forward such records to FNS whenever either agency is disposing of them.

(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with Program funds shall be retained for three years after its final disposition.

(4) All records shall be available during normal business hours for representatives of the Department and the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports or other documents resulting from the examination of such records that are publicly released may not include confidential applicant or participant information.
