
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart G - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Rural Development
##### ยง 2.48 Administrator, Rural Business-Cooperative Service.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(xiv) Section 385A(7 U.S.C. 2009dd) relating to the Rural Collaborative Investment Program.

(3) Administer Alcohol Fuels Credit Guarantee Program Account (Pub L. No. 102-341, 106 Stat. 895).

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Administer loan programs in the Appalachian region under sections 203 and 204 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 (40 U.S.C. App. 204).

(6) Administer section 601 of the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 (Pub. L. No. 95-620).

(7) Administer the Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loan program under section 331 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1929a note).

(8) Administer the Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises Guaranteed Loan Program under section 401 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 (7 U.S.C. 1929a note).

(9) Administer the Rural Economic Development Demonstration Grant Program (7 U.S.C. 2662a).

(10) Administer the Economically Disadvantaged Rural Community Loan program (7 U.S.C. 6616).

(11) Administer programs authorized by the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926 (7 U.S.C. 451-457).

(12) Carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research and analysis, the application of economic research findings, technical assistance to existing and developing cooperatives, education on cooperatives, and statistical information pertaining to cooperatives as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627).

(13) Work with institutions and international organizations throughout the world on subjects related to the development and operation of agricultural cooperatives. Such work may be carried out by:

(i) Exchanging materials and results with such institutions or organizations;

(ii) Engaging in joint or coordinated activities; or

(iii) Stationing representatives at such institutions or organizations in foreign countries (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(14) Collect, service, and liquidate loans made, insured, or guaranteed by the Rural Business-Cooperative Service or its predecessor agencies.

(15) In coordination with the Office of Tribal Relations, provide technical assistance to improve access by Tribal entities to rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture through available cooperative agreement authorities (7 U.S.C. 2671).
