
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 247 - COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM
###### ยง 247.8 Individuals applying to participate in CSFP.
####### What else is required on the application form?

(b)The application form must include a nondiscrimination statement that informs the applicant that program standards are applied without discrimination by race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability. After informing the applicant or caretaker of the applicant of his or her rights and responsibilities, in accordance with ยง 247.12, the local agency must ensure that the applicant or caretaker signs the application form beneath the following pre-printed statement. The statement must be read by, or to, the applicant or caretaker before signing.

"This application is being completed in connection with the receipt of Federal assistance. Program officials may verify information on this form. I am aware that deliberate misrepresentation may subject me to prosecution under applicable State and Federal statutes. I am also aware that I may not receive CSFP benefits at more than one CSFP site at the same time. Furthermore, I am aware that the information provided may be shared with other organizations to detect and prevent dual participation. I have been advised of my rights and obligations under the program. I certify that the information I have provided for my eligibility determination is correct to the best of my knowledge.
