
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 247 - COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM
###### ยง 247.9 Eligibility requirements.
####### How is income defined and considered as it relates to CSFP eligibility?

(d)(1) Income means gross income before deductions for such items as income taxes, employees' social security taxes, insurance premiums, and bonds.

(2) The State agency may exclude from consideration the following sources of income listed under the regulations for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children at ยง 246.7(d)(2)(iv) of this chapter:

(i) Any basic allowance for housing received by military services personnel residing off military installations; and

(ii) The value of inkind housing and other inkind benefits.

(3) The State agency must exclude from consideration all income sources excluded by legislation, which are listed in ยง 246.7(d)(2)(iv)(D) of this chapter. FNS will notify State agencies of any new forms of income excluded by statute through program policy memoranda.

(4) The State agency may authorize local agencies to consider the household's average income during the previous 12 months and current household income to determine which more accurately reflects the household's status. In instances in which the State makes the decision to authorize local agencies to determine a household's income in this manner, all local agencies must comply with the State's decision and apply this method of income determination in situations in which it is warranted.
