
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart G - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Rural Development
##### ยง 2.48 Administrator, Rural Business-Cooperative Service.
###### et seq.

(19) Administer in rural areas the process of designation, provision of monitoring and oversight, and provision of technical assistance for Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities pursuant to section 13301 of Pub. L. No. 103-66, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (26 U.S.C. 1391).

(20) Provide leadership and coordination within the executive branch at the state and local level of Federal rural development program utilizing the services of executive branch departments and agencies and the agencies, bureaus, offices, and services of the Department of Agriculture in coordination with rural development programs of State and local governments (7 U.S.C. 2204).

(21) Coordinate, at the state and local level, activities relative to rural development among agencies reporting to the Under Secretary for Rural Development and, through appropriate channels, serve as the coordinating agency for other departmental agencies having primary responsibilities, in coordination with rural development programs of State and local governments (7 U.S.C. 2204).

(22) Work with Federal agencies in encouraging the creation of local rural community development organizations. Within a State, assist other Federal agencies in developing means for extending their services effectively to rural areas and in designating pilot projects in rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2204).

(23) Conduct assessments to determine how programs of the Department can be brought to bear on the economic development problems of a State or local area and assure that local groups are receiving adequate and effective technical assistance from Federal agencies or from local and State governments in formulating development programs and in carrying out planned development activities (7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(24) Develop a process through which State, sub-state and local rural development needs, goals, objectives, plans, and recommendations can be received and assessed on a continuing basis (7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(25) Prepare local or area-wide rural development strategies based on the needs, goals, objectives, plans and recommendations of local communities, sub-state areas and States (7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(26) Develop a system of outreach in the State or local area to promote rural development and provide for the publication and dissemination of information, through multi-media methods, relating to rural development. Advise local rural development organizations of availability of Federal programs and the type of assistance available, and assist in making contact with Federal program contact (7 U.S.C. 2204; 7 U.S.C. 2204b).
