
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart G - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Rural Development
##### ยง 2.48 Administrator, Rural Business-Cooperative Service.
###### see

(27) Administer the assets of the Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation and the funds in the Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Fund in accordance with section 6201 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2000 (note to 7 U.S.C. 5901 (repealed)).

(28) In coordination with the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, administer the value-added producer grants program and farmers' markets and local food promotion program (7 U.S.C. 1627c(d)(5)-(6)).

(29) Administer the Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration program (7 U.S.C. 1632b).

(30) Administer the Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements program (7 U.S.C. 8106).

(30) Administer the renewable energy programs authorized in sections 9003, 9004, 9005, 9007, and 9009 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103, 8104, 8105, 8107, and 8109).

(31) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(32) In coordination with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(33) Administer the Healthy Food Financing Initiative under section 243 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6953).

(34) Administer section 6209 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 2207b), relating to the collection and reporting of program metrics.

(35) Implementation of a program for the Federal procurement of biobased products and of a voluntary "USDA Certified Biobased product" labeling program (7 U.S.C. 8102).

(36) Entering into cooperative agreements to further research programs in the food and agricultural sciences, related to establishing and implementing Federal biobased procurement and voluntary biobased labeling programs (7 U.S.C. 3318).
