
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 248 - WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (FMNP)
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 248.10 Coupon and market management.
######## Farmers' market agreements.

(b)The State agency shall ensure that all participating farmers' markets enter into written agreements with the State agency. The agreement shall be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand. The agreement shall be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmers/farmers' market. Agreements shall include a description of sanctions for noncompliance with FMNP requirements and shall contain at a minimum, the following specifications, although the State agency may determine the exact wording to be used:

(1) The farmer, farmers' market and roadside stand shall:

(i) Provide such information as the State agency may require for its periodic reports to FNS;

(ii) Assure that FMNP coupons are redeemed only for eligible foods;

(iii) Provide eligible foods at the current price or less than the current price charged to other customers;

(iv) Accept FMNP coupons within the dates of their validity and submit such coupons for payment within the allowable time period established by the State agency;

(v) In accordance with a procedure established by the State agency, mark each transacted coupon with a farmer identifier. In those cases where the agreement is between the State agency and the farmer, each transacted FMNP coupon shall contain a farmer identifier and shall be batched for reimbursement under that identifier. In those cases where the agreement is between the State agency and the farmers' market, each transacted FMNP coupon shall contain a farmer identifier and be batched for reimbursement under a farmers' market identifier.

(vi) Accept training on FMNP procedures and provide training to farmers and any employees with FMNP responsibilities on such procedures;

(vii) Agree to be monitored for compliance with FMNP requirements, including both overt and covert monitoring;

(viii) Be accountable for actions of farmers or employees in the provision of foods and related activities;

(ix) Pay the State agency for any coupons transacted in violation of this agreement;

(x) Offer FMNP recipients the same courtesies as other customers;

(xi) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of USDA regulations as provided in ยง 248.7; and

(xii) Notify the State agency if any farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand ceases operation prior to the end of the authorization period.

(2) The farmer, farmers' market and roadside stand shall not:

(i) Collect sales tax on FMNP coupon purchases;

(ii) Seek restitution from FMNP recipients for coupons not paid by the State agency;

(iii) Issue cash change for purchases that are in an amount less than the value of the FMNP coupon(s).

(3) Neither the State agency nor the farmer, farmers' market nor a roadside stand has an obligation to renew the agreement. Either the State agency or the farmer, farmers' market or a roadside stand may terminate the agreement for cause after providing advance written notification.

(4) The State agency may deny payment to the farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand for improperly redeemed FMNP coupons and may demand refunds for payments already made on improperly redeemed coupons.

(5) The State agency may disqualify a farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand for FMNP abuse. The farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand has the right to appeal a denial of an application to participate, a disqualification, or a FMNP sanction by the State agency. Expiration of a contract or agreement with a farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand, and claims actions under ยง 248.20, are not appealable.

(6) A farmer, farmers' market or a roadside stand which commits fraud or engages in other illegal activity is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws.

(7) Agreements may not exceed 3 years.
