
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 248 - WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (FMNP)
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 248.12 FMNP costs.
######## Specified allowable administrative costs.

(b)Allowable administrative costs include the following:

(1) The costs associated with the provision of nutrition education which meets the requirements of ยง 248.9 of this part.

(2) The costs of FMNP coupon issuance, or recipient education covering proper coupon redemption procedures.

(3) The cost of outreach services.

(4) The costs associated with the food delivery process, such as printing FMNP coupons, processing redeemed coupons, and training market managers on the food delivery system.

(5) The cost of monitoring and reviewing Program operations.

(6) The cost of FMNP training.

(7) The cost of required reporting and recordkeeping.

(8) The cost of determining which local WIC sites will be utilized.

(9) The cost of recruiting and authorizing farmers/farmers' markets to participate in the FMNP.

(10) The cost of preparing contracts for farmers/farmers' markets and local WIC providers.

(11) The cost of developing a data processing system for redemption and reconciliation of FMNP coupons.

(12) The cost of designing program training and informational materials.

(13) The cost of coordinating FMNP implementation responsibilities between designated administering agencies.
