
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 248 - WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (FMNP)
###### Subpart E - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 248.14 Distribution of funds.
######## Expansion of participating State agencies and establishment of new State agencies.

(d)Any FMNP funds remaining for allocation after meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall be allocated in the following manner:

(1) Of the remaining funds, 75 percent shall be made available to State agencies already participating in the FMNP that wish to serve additional recipients. If this amount is greater than that necessary to satisfy all State plans approved for additional recipients, the unallocated amount shall be applied toward satisfying any unmet need in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) Of the remaining funds, 25 percent shall be made available to State agencies that have not participated in the FMNP in any prior fiscal year. If this amount is greater than that necessary to satisfy the approved State Plans for new States, the unallocated amount shall be applied toward satisfying any unmet need in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The Department reserves the right not to fund every State agency with an approved State Plan.

(3) In any fiscal year, any FMNP funds that remain unallocated after satisfying the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, shall be reallocated in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
