
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 248 - WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (FMNP)
###### Subpart F - Monitoring and Review of State Agencies
####### ยง 248.17 Management evaluations and reviews.
######## Responsibilities of State agencies.

(c)The State agency is responsible for meeting the following requirements:

(1) The State agency shall establish evaluation and review procedures and document the results of such procedures. The procedures shall include, but are not limited to:

(i) Annual monitoring reviews of participating farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands, including on-site reviews of a minimum of 10 percent of farmers, 10 percent of farmers' markets, and 10 percent of roadside stands, which includes those farmers, farmers' markets, and roadside stands identified as being the highest risk. First year of operation in the FMNP shall be considered a high-risk indicator. More frequent reviews may be performed as the State agency deems necessary.

(ii) Conducting monitoring reviews of all local agencies within the State agency's jurisdiction at least once every 2 years. Monitoring of local agencies shall encompass, but not be limited to, evaluation of management, accountability, certification, nutrition education, financial management systems, and coupon management systems. WIC State agency reviews of local agencies conducted for the WIC Program may contribute to meeting the FMNP requirement that all local agencies be reviewed once every two years if the reviews include reviews of FMNP practices. When the WIC State agency conducts a review of the local agency outside of the FMNP season, a review of documents and procedural plans of the FMNP, rather than actual FMNP activities, is acceptable.

(iii) Instituting the necessary follow-up procedures to correct identified problem areas.

(2) On its own initiative or when required by FNS, the State agency shall provide special reports on FMNP activities, and take positive action to correct deficiencies in FMNP operations.
