
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart I - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services
##### ยง 2.57 Administrator, Food and Nutrition Service.
###### et seq.

(xii) Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983, as amended (7 U.S.C. 7501);

(xiii) Sections 3(b)-(i), 3A and 4 of the Commodity Distribution Reform Act and WIC Amendments of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); and

(xiv) Section 110 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 612c note).

(3) Administer those functions relating to the distribution of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits under section 412 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5179).

(4) In connection with the functions assigned in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section, relating to the distribution and donation of agricultural commodities and products thereof and supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits to eligible recipients, authority to determine the requirements for such agricultural commodities and products thereof and supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits to be so distributed.

(5) Receive donation of food commodities under clause (3) of section 416(a) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended, section 709 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1965, as amended, section 5 of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973, section 1114(a) of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981, and section 202(a) and 202A of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983.

(6) Authorize defense emergency supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits.

(7) Develop and implement USDA policy and procedural guidelines for carrying out the Department's Consumer Affairs Plan.

(8) Advise the Secretary and other policy level officials of the Department on consumer affairs policies and programs.

(9) Coordinate USDA consumer affairs activities and monitor and analyze agency procedures and performance.

(10) Represent the Department at conferences, meetings and other contacts where consumer affairs issues are discussed, including liaison with the White House and other governmental agencies and departments.

(11) Work with the Office of Budget and Program Analysis and the Office of Communications to ensure coordination of USDA consumer affairs and public participation programs, policies and information, and to prevent duplication of responsibilities.

(12) Serve as a consumer ombudsman and communication link between consumers and the Department.

(13) Approve the designation of agency Consumer Affairs Contacts.

(14) Administer those functions under title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612) relating to the eligibility of aliens for benefits under the domestic food assistance programs.

(15) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79:

(i) Section 4004(b), relating to a demonstration project regarding the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (7 U.S.C. 2013 note).

(ii) Section 4031, relating to a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands pilot program regarding the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (48 U.S.C. 1841 note).

(iii) Section 4032, relating to annual State reporting on verification of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program participation (7 U.S.C. 2036c).

(iv) Section 4033, relating to service of traditional foods in public facilities (25 U.S.C. 443d).

(v) Section 4214, relating to a pilot project for canned, frozen, or dried fruits and vegetables as part of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769a note).

(16) Administer section 301 of the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990, relating to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (7 U.S.C. 5341).

(b) [Reserved]
