
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 248 - WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (FMNP)
###### Subpart G - Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 248.23 Records and reports.
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(a)Each State agency shall maintain full and complete records concerning FMNP operations. Such records shall comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:

(1) Records shall include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to financial operations, FMNP coupon issuance and redemption, equipment purchases and inventory, nutrition education, and civil rights procedures.

(2) All records shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the 3-year period, the records shall be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the FMNP records to be of historical interest, it may require the State agency to forward such records to FNS whenever the State agency is disposing of them.

(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with FMNP funds shall be retained for three years after its final disposition.

(4) All records shall be available during normal business hours for representatives of the Department of the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports resulting from such examinations shall not divulge names of individuals.
