
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart J - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment
##### ยง 2.60 Chief, Forest Service.

(a) Delegations. Pursuant to ยง 2.20(a)(1), (2), and (6), (a)(7)(ii), and (a)(8), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to the Chief of the Forest Service:

(1) Provide national leadership in forestry. (As used here and elsewhere in this section, the term "forestry" encompasses renewable and nonrenewable resources of forests, including lands governed by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, forest-related rangeland, grassland, brushland, woodland, and alpine areas including but not limited to recreation, range, timber, minerals, watershed, wildlife and fish; natural scenic, scientific, cultural, and historic values of forests and related lands; and derivative values such as economic strength and social well-being).

(2) Protect, manage, and administer the national forests, national forest purchase units, national grasslands, and other lands and interests in lands administered by the Forest Service, which collectively are designated as the National Forest System.

(3) Acquire, dispose, and lease lands and interest in lands as may be authorized for the protection, management, and administration of the National Forest System, including the authority to approve acquisition of land under the Weeks Act of March 1, 1911, as amended, and special forest receipts acts (Pub. L. 337, 74th Cong., 49 Stat. 866, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 505, 75th Cong., 52 Stat. 347, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 634, 75th Cong., 52 Stat. 699, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 748, 75th Cong., 52 Stat. 1205, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 427, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 46; Pub. L. 589, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 297; Pub. L. 591, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 299; Pub. L. 637, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 402; Pub. L. 781, 84th Cong., 70 Stat. 632).

(4) As necessary for administrative purposes, divide into and designate as national forests any lands of 3,000 acres or less which are acquired under or subject to the Weeks Act of March 1, 1911, as amended, and which are contiguous to existing national forest boundaries established under the authority of the Weeks Act.

(5) Plan and administer wildlife and fish conservation rehabilitation and habitat management programs on National Forest System lands, pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 670g, 670h, and 670.

(6) For the purposes of the National Forests System Drug Control Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 559b 559g), specifically designate certain specially trained officers and employees of the Forest Service, not exceeding 500, to have authority in the performance of their duties within the boundaries of the National Forest System:

(i) To carry firearms;

(ii) To enforce and conduct investigations of violations of section 401 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 841) and other criminal violations relating to marijuana and other controlled substances that are manufactured, distributed, or dispensed on National Forest System lands;

(iii) To make arrests with a warrant or process for misdemeanor violations, or without a warrant for violations of such misdemeanors that any such officer or employee has probable cause to believe are being committed in that employee's presence or view, or for a felony with a warrant or without a warrant if that employee has probable cause to believe that the person being arrested has committed or is committing such a felony;

(iv) To serve warrants and other process issued by a court or officer of competent jurisdiction;

(v) To search, with or without a warrant or process, any person, place, or conveyance according to Federal law or rule of law; and

(vi) To seize, with or without warrant or process, any evidentiary item according to Federal law or rule of law.

(7) Cooperate with the law enforcement officials of any Federal agency, State, or political subdivision, in the investigation of violations of, and enforcement of, section 401 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 841), other laws and regulations relating to marijuana and other controlled substances, and State drug control laws or ordinances, within the boundaries of the National Forest System.

(8) Administer programs under section 23 of the Federal Highway Act (23 U.S.C. 101(a), 120(f), 125(a)-(c), 138, 202(a)-(b), 203, 204(a)-(c), 205(a)-(d), 211, 317, 401).

(9) Administer provisions of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1272, 1305) as they relate to management of the National Forest System.

(10) Conduct, support, and cooperate in investigations, experiments, tests, and other activities deemed necessary to obtain, analyze, develop, demonstrate, and disseminate scientific information about protecting, managing, and utilizing forest and rangeland renewable resources in rural, suburban, and urban areas in the United States and foreign countries. The activities conducted, supported, or cooperated in shall include, but not be limited to: Renewable resource management research; renewable resource environmental research; renewable resource protection research, renewable resource utilization research, and renewable resource assessment research (16 U.S.C. 1641-1647).

(11) Use authorities and means available to disseminate the knowledge and technology developed from forestry research (16 U.S.C. 1645).

(12) Coordinate activities with other agencies in USDA, other Federal and State agencies, forestry schools, and private entities and individuals (16 U.S.C. 1643).

(13) Enter into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements for the support of scientific research in forestry activities (7 U.S.C. 3105, 1624; 16 U.S.C. 582a-8, 1643-1645, 1649).

(14) Enter into cooperative research and development agreements with industry, universities, and others; institute a cash award program to reward scientific, engineering, and technical personnel; award royalties to inventors; and retain and use royalty income (15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c).

(15) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3152, 3318).

(16) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(17) Administer programs of cooperative forestry assistance in the protection, conservation, and multiple resource management of forests and related resources in both rural and urban areas and forest lands in foreign countries (16 U.S.C. 2101-2114).

(18) Provide assistance to States and other units of government in forest resources planning and forestry rural revitalization (7 U.S.C. 6601, 6611-6617; 16 U.S.C. 2107).

(19) Conduct a program of technology implementation for State forestry personnel, private forest landowners and managers, vendors, forest operators, public agencies, and individuals (16 U.S.C. 2107).

(20) Administer rural fire protection and control program (16 U.S.C. 2106c).

(21) Provide technical assistance on forestry technology or the implementation of the conservation reserve and softwood timber programs authorized in sections 1231-1244 and 1254 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3844; 7 U.S.C. 1981 note).

(22) Administer forest insect, disease, and other pest management programs (16 U.S.C. 2104).

(23) Exercise the custodial functions of the Secretary for lands and interests in lands under lease or contract of sale to States and local agencies pursuant to title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act and administer reserved and reversionary interests in lands conveyed under that Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1013a).

(24) Under such general program criteria and procedures as may be established by the Natural Resources Conservation Service:

(i) Administer the forestry aspects of the programs listed in paragraphs (a)(24)(i)(A) through (C) of this section on the National Forest System, rangelands with national forest boundaries, adjacent rangelands which are administered under formal agreement, and other forest lands:

(A) The cooperative river basin surveys and investigations program (16 U.S.C. 1006);

(B) The eleven authorized watershed improvement programs and emergency flood prevention measures program under the Flood Control Act of 1944 (Pub. L. 78-534);

(C) The small watershed protection program under the Pilot Watershed Protection and Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Acts (7 U.S.C. 701a-h; 16 U.S.C. 1001-1009).

(ii) Exercise responsibility in connection with the forestry aspects of the resource conservation and development program authorized by title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(e)).

(25) Provide assistance to the Farm Service Agency in connection with the agricultural conservation program, the naval stores conservation program, and the cropland conversion program (16 U.S.C. 590g-q).

(26) Provide assistance to the Rural Housing Service in connection with grants and loans under authority of section 303 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 7 U.S.C. 1923;

(27) Coordinate mapping work of USDA including:

(i) Clearing mapping projects to prevent duplication;

(ii) Keeping a record of mapping done by USDA agencies;

(iii) Preparing and submitting required USDA reports;

(iv) Serving as liaison on mapping with the Office of Management and Budget, Department of the Interior, and other departments and establishments;

(v) Promoting interchange of technical mapping information, including techniques which may reduce costs or improve quality; and

(vi) Maintaining the mapping records formerly maintained by the Office of Operations.

(28) Administer the radio frequency licensing work of USDA, including:

(i) Representing USDA on the Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee and its Frequency Assignment Subcommittee of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce;

(ii) Establishing policies, standards, and procedures for allotting and assigning frequencies within USDA and for obtaining effective utilization of them;

(iii) Providing licensing action necessary to assign radio frequencies for use by the agencies of USDA and maintenance of the records necessary in connection therewith; and

(iv) Providing inspection of USDA's radio operations to ensure compliance with national and international regulations and policies for radio frequency use.

(29) Represent USDA in all matters relating to responsibilities and authorities under the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a-823).

(30) Administer the Youth Conservation Corps Act (16 U.S.C. 1701-1706)) for USDA.

(31) Establish and operate the Job Corps Civilian Conservation Centers on National Forest System lands as authorized by title I, sections 106 and 107 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2716), in accordance with the terms of an agreement dated May 11, 1967, between the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Labor; and administration of other cooperative manpower training and work experience programs where the Forest Service serves as host or prime sponsor with other Departments of Federal, State, or local governments.

(32) Administer the Volunteers in the National Forests Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a-558d, 558a note).

(33) Exercise the functions of the Secretary of Agriculture authorized in the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3101-3215).
