
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 249 - SENIOR FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (SFMNP)
###### Subpart G - Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 249.23 Records and reports.
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(a)Each State agency must maintain full and complete records concerning SFMNP operations. Such records must comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:

(1) Records must include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to certification, financial operations, SFMNP coupon issuance and redemption, authorized outlet (farmers, farmers' markets, and CSA program) agreements, authorized outlet monitoring, CSA program agreements, invoices, delivery receipts, equipment purchases and inventory, nutrition education, fair hearings, and civil rights procedures.

(2) All records must be retained for a minimum of 3 years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the 3-year period, the records must be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the SFMNP records to be of historical interest, it may require the State agency to forward such records to FNS whenever the State agency is disposing of them.

(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with SFMNP funds must be retained for three years after its final disposition.

(4) All records must be available during normal business hours for representatives of FNS of the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports resulting from such examinations shall not divulge names of individuals.
