
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart J - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment
##### ยง 2.60 Chief, Forest Service.
###### et seq.

(44) Administer the Public Lands Corps program (16 U.S.C. 1721) for USDA consistent with the Department's overall national service program.

(45) [Reserved]

(46) Focusing on countries that could have a substantial impact on global warming, provide assistance that promotes sustainable development and global environmental stability; share technical, managerial, extension, and administrative skills; provide education and training opportunities; engage in scientific exchange; and cooperate with domestic and international organizations that further international programs for the management and protection of forests, rangelands, wildlife, fisheries and related natural resources (16 U.S.C. 4501-4505).

(47) Exercise the functions of the Secretary of Agriculture authorized in Title V of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998, Public Law 105-83, relating to the acquisition so the New World Mines and other priority land acquisitions, land exchanges, and other activities.

(48) Establish programs with any bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), or with other agencies within USDA, in support of the Service First initiative for the purpose of promoting customer service and efficiency, including delegating to employees of DOI and other USDA agencies the authorities of the Forest Service necessary to carry out projects on behalf of USDA (43 U.S.C. 1703).

(49) At the request of the Director, Homeland Security Staff (Director), designate law enforcement personnel of the Forest Service to assist the Director in providing for the personal security for the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary in the National Forest System.

(50) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(51) Administer a program, through the Deputy Chief of State and Private Forestry, for providing loans to eligible units of local government to finance the purchase of equipment to monitor, remove, dispose of, and replace infested trees located under their jurisdiction and within the borders of quarantined areas (16 U.S.C. 2104a).

(52) [Reserved]

(53) Administer the community wood energy program providing grants to develop community wood energy plans, acquire or upgrade community wood energy systems, and establish or expand biomass consumer cooperatives (7 U.S.C. 8113).

(54) Conduct activities that assist the Director, Office of Environmental Markets, in developing guidelines regarding the development of environmental services markets.
