
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart J - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment
##### ยง 2.60 Chief, Forest Service.
###### Reservations.

(b)The following authorities are reserved to the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment:

(1) The authority to issue final rules and regulations relating to the administration of Forest Service programs, except as provided in 36 CFR 261.70 and ยง 2.60(a)(37).

(2) As deemed necessary for administrative purposes, the authority to divide into and designate as national forests any lands of more than 3,000 acres acquired under or subject to the Weeks Act of March 1, 1911, as amended (16 U.S.C. 521).

(3) The authority to make recommendations to the Administrator of General Services regarding transfer to other Federal, State, or Territorial agencies lands acquired under the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act, together with recommendations on the conditions of use and administration of such lands, pursuant to the provisions of section 32(c) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(c), and Executive Order 11609, 3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 586).

(4) Making recommendations to the President for establishing new units or adding to existing units of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System (16 U.S.C. 1271-1278); National Scenic Trails System (16 U.S.C. 1241-1249) and the National Wilderness Preservation System (16 U.S.C. 1131-1136).

(5) Signing of declarations of taking and requests for condemnation of property as authorized by law to carry out the mission of the Forest Service (40 U.S.C. 257).

(7) The authority to approve disbursements from the New World Mine Response and Restoration Account and the authority to prepare and approve the New World Mine Response and Restoration Plan, including the coordination of the response and restoration activities of the Forest Service and the other Federal and State agencies, and make quarterly reports to Congress under section 502(d) and (f) of Title V of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998, Pub. L. 105-83.
