
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### § 2.65 Administrator, Agricultural Research Service.
###### Delegations.

(a)Pursuant to § 2.21(a)(1), (a)(3) and (a)(5) through (a)(7), subject to reservations in § 2.21(b)(1), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Conduct research related to the economic feasibility of the manufacture and commercialization of natural rubber from hydrocarbon-containing plants and other critical agricultural materials from native agricultural crops having strategic and industrial importance (7 U.S.C. 178-178n).

(3) Conduct research on the control of undesirable species of honeybees in cooperation with specific foreign governments (7 U.S.C. 284).

(4) Conduct research concerning domestic animals and poultry, their protection and use, the causes of contagious, infectious, and communicable diseases, and the means for the prevention and cure of the same (7 U.S.C. 391).

(5) Conduct research related to the dairy industry and to the dissemination of information for the promotion of the dairy industry (7 U.S.C. 402).

(6) Conduct research and demonstrations at Mandan, ND, related to dairy livestock breeding, growing, and feeding, and other problems pertaining to the establishment of the dairy and livestock industries (7 U.S.C. 421-422).

(7) Conduct research on new uses for cotton and on cotton ginning and processing (7 U.S.C. 423-424).

(8) Conduct research into the basic problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects, including, but not limited to, production, marketing (other than statistical and economic research but including research related to family use of resources), distribution, processing, and utilization of plant and animal commodities; problems of human nutrition; development of markets for agricultural commodities; discovery, introduction, and breeding of new crops, plants, animals, both foreign and native; conservation development; and development of efficient use of farm buildings, homes, and farm machinery except as otherwise delegated in §§ 2.22(a)(1)(ii) and 2.79(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621-1627, 1629, 2201 and 2204).

(9) Conduct research on varietal improvement of wheat and feed grains to enhance their conservation and environmental qualities (7 U.S.C. 428b).

(10) Administer an experienced services program to obtain technical, professional, and administrative services to support the research, education, and economics mission area of the Department (16 U.S.C. 3851).

(11) Enter into agreements with and receive funds from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of conducting cooperative research projects (7 U.S.C. 450a).

(12) Conduct research under the IR-4 program (7 U.S.C. 450i(e)).

(13) Conduct research related to soil and water conservation, engineering operations, and methods of cultivation to provide for the control and prevention of soil erosion (7 U.S.C. 1010 and 16 U.S.C. 590a).

(14) Maintain four regional research laboratories and conduct research at such laboratories to develop new scientific, chemical, and technical uses and new and extended markets and outlets for farm commodities and products and the by-products thereof (7 U.S.C. 1292).

(15) Conduct a Special Cotton Research Program designed to reduce the cost of producing upland cotton in the United States (7 U.S.C. 1444a(c)).

(16) [Reserved]

(17) Conduct research to develop and determine methods for the humane slaughter of livestock (7 U.S.C. 1904).
