
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.65 Administrator, Agricultural Research Service.
###### et seq.

(18) Provide national leadership and support for research programs and other research activities in the food and agricultural sciences to meet major needs and challenges in food and agricultural system productivity; development of new food, fiber, and energy sources; agricultural energy use and production; natural resources; promotion of the health and welfare of people; human nutrition; and international food and agriculture pursuant to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3101).

(19) [Reserved]

(20) Administer the National Agricultural Science Award for research or advanced studies in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3153).

(21) Conduct program evaluations to improve the administration and effectiveness of agricultural research and education programs (7 U.S.C. 3317).

(22) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research programs and library and related information programs supporting research, extension, and teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318).

(23) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements with State cooperative institutions or other colleges and universities for the acquisition of goods or services in support of research, extension, or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences, including the furtherance of library and related information programs (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(24) Conduct research for the development of supplemental and alternative crops (7 U.S.C. 3319d).

(25)-(26) [Reserved]

(27) Cooperate and work with national and international institutions, Departments and Ministries of Agriculture in other nations, land-grant colleges and universities, and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research activities (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(28) Provide a biennial report to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on efforts of the Federal Government to coordinate international agricultural research within the Federal Government, and to more effectively link the activities of domestic and international agricultural researchers, particularly researchers of the Agricultural Research Service (7 U.S.C. 3291(d)(2)).

(29) Conduct a program of basic research on cancer in animals and birds (7 U.S.C. 3902).

(30) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.

(31) Conduct research to optimize crop and livestock production potential, integrated resource management, and integrated crop management (7 U.S.C. 5821).

(32) Administer a national research program on genetic resources to provide for the collection, preservation, and dissemination of genetic material important to American food and agriculture production (7 U.S.C. 5841).

(33) Conduct remote-sensing and other weather-related research (7 U.S.C. 5852).

(34)-(37) [Reserved]

(38) Administer a grant program for risk assessment research to address concerns about the environmental effects of biotechnology (7 U.S.C. 5921).

(39) Conduct a research initiative known as the Agricultural Genome Initiative, and make grants or enter into cooperative agreements on a competitive basis to carry out the Initiative (7 U.S.C. 5924).

(40) Facilitate access, including through the National Agricultural Library, by research and extension professionals, farmers, and other interested persons in the United States to, and the use by those persons of, organic research conducted outside the United States (7 U.S.C. 5925d).

(41)-(46) [Reserved]

(47) Establish a National Plant Disease Recovery System to engage in strategic long-range planning to recover from high-consequence plant transboundary diseases (7 U.S.C. 8914(d)).

(48) Coordinate Departmental policies under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601-2629).

(49) With respect to facilities and activities under his or her authority, to exercise the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to section 1-102 related to compliance with applicable pollution control standards and section 1-601 of Executive Order 12088, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 243, to enter into an inter-agency agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an administrative consent order or a consent judgment in an appropriate State, interstate, or local agency, containing a plan and schedule to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable pollution control standards established pursuant to the following:
