
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.65 Administrator, Agricultural Research Service.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(62) Perform food and agricultural research in support of functions assigned to the Department under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195).

(63) Propagate bee-breeding stock and release bee germplasm to the public (7 U.S.C. 283).

(64) Administer a National Food and Human Nutrition Research Program under the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended. As used herein the term "research" includes:

(i) Research on the nutrient composition of foods and the effects of agricultural practices, handling, food processing, and cooking on the nutrients they contain;

(ii) Surveillance of the nutritional benefits provided to participants in the food programs administered by the Department; and

(iii) Research on the factors affecting food preference and habits (7 U.S.C. 3171-3173, 3175).

(65) The authority in paragraph (a)(64) of this section includes the authority to:

(i) Appraise the nutritive content of the U.S. food supply;

(ii) Develop and make available data on the nutrient composition of foods needed by Federal, State, and local agencies administering food and nutrition programs, and the general public, to improve the nutritional quality of diets;

(iii) Coordinate nutrition education research and professional education projects within the Department; and

(iv) Maintain data generated on food composition in a National Nutrient Data Bank.

(66) Conduct, in cooperation with the Department of Health and Human Services, the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Program. Included in this delegation is the authority to:

(i) Design and carry out periodic nationwide food consumption surveys to measure household food consumption;

(ii) Design and carry out a continuous, longitudinal individual intake survey of the United States population and special high-risk groups; and

(iii) Design and carry out methodological research studies to develop improved procedures for collecting household and individual food intake consumption data;

(67) [Reserved]
