
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.65 Administrator, Agricultural Research Service.
###### et seq.

(68) Provide staff support to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics related to the Ten-Year Comprehensive Plan and the Interagency Board for Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research required by Pub. L. No. 101-445, 7 U.S.C. 5301

(69) Obtain and furnish excess property to eligible recipients for use in the conduct of research and extension programs.

(70) [Reserved]

(71) Establish and maintain a Food Safety Research Information Office at the National Agricultural Library to provide to the research community and the general public information on publicly and privately funded food safety research initiatives (7 U.S.C. 7654(a)).

(72) Develop and maintain library and information systems and networks and facilitate cooperation and coordination of the agricultural libraries of colleges, universities, USDA, and their closely allied information gathering and dissemination units in conjunction with private industry and other research libraries (7 U.S.C. 2201, 2204, 3125a, and 3126).

(73) Accept gifts and order disbursements from the Treasury for the benefit of the National Agricultural Library or for the carrying out of any of its functions (7 U.S.C. 2264-2265).

(74) Provide for the dissemination of appropriate rural health and safety information resources possessed by the National Agricultural Library Rural Information Center, in cooperation with State educational program efforts (7 U.S.C. 2662).

(75) Provide national leadership in the development and maintenance of library and related information systems and other activities to support the research, extension, and teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences pursuant to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3101 and 3121).

(76) Administer the programs and services of the National Agricultural Library consistent with its charge to serve as the primary agricultural information resource of the United States and enter into agreements and receive funds from various entities to conduct National Agricultural Library activities (7 U.S.C. 3125a).

(77) Provide and distribute information and data about Federal, State, local, and other rural development assistance programs and services available to individuals and organizations. To the extent possible, the National Agricultural Library shall use telecommunications technology to disseminate such information to rural areas (7 U.S.C. 3125b).

(78) Assemble and collect food and nutrition educational materials, including the results of nutrition research, training methods, procedures, and other materials related to the purposes of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended; maintain such information; and provide for the dissemination of such information and materials on a regular basis to State educational agencies and other interested parties (7 U.S.C. 3126).

(79) Conduct program evaluations to improve the administration and efficacy of the National Agricultural Library and related information systems in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3317).

(80) Administer the National Agricultural Library, including the farmland information center, pursuant to section 1544(b) of the Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4205(b)).

(81) Support Department water programs through participation in State water quality coordination programs and dissemination of agrichemical information (7 U.S.C. 5503-5506).

(82)-(83) [Reserved]

(84) Represent the Department on all library and information science matters before Congressional Committees and appropriate commissions, and provide representation to the coordinating committees of the Federal and State governments concerned with library and information science activities.

(85) Represent the Department in international organizational activities and on international technical committees concerned with library and information science activities.

(86) Prepare and disseminate computer files, indexes and abstracts, bibliographies, reviews and other analytical information tools.

(87) Arrange for the consolidated purchasing and dissemination of printed and automated indexes, abstracts, journals, and other widely used information resources and services.

(88) Provide assistance and support to professional organizations and others concerned with library and information science matters and issues.

(89) Copy and deliver on demand selected articles and other materials from the National Agricultural Library's collections by photographic reproduction or other means within the permissions, constraints, and limitations of sections 106, 107, and 108 of the Copyright Act of October 19, 1976 (17 U.S.C. 106, 107 and 108).
