
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.65 Administrator, Agricultural Research Service.
###### et seq.

(96) Provide technical assistance to farmers and ranchers under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (16 U.S.C. 3830).

(97) Enter into cooperative research and development agreements with industry, universities, and others; institute a cash award program to reward scientific, engineering, and technical personnel; award royalties to inventors; and retain and use royalty income (15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c).

(98) Coordinate USDA activities delegated under 15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c.

(99) Ensure that agricultural research conducted by the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) addresses a concern that is a priority and has national, multistate, or regional significance (7 U.S.C. 7611).

(100) Solicit and consider input and recommendations from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education (7 U.S.C. 7612(b)).

(101) Consider the results of the annual review performed by the Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board regarding the relevance to priorities of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department and the adequacy of funding when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department; and solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year's request for proposals for each activity funded on a competitive basis (7 U.S.C. 7613(c)).

(102) Establish procedures that ensure scientific peer review of all research activities conducted by the Agricultural Research Service (7 U.S.C. 7613(d)).

(103) Coordinate the resources of the Department to develop, commercialize, and promote the use of biobased products, and enter into cooperative agreements with private entities to operate pilot plants and other large-scale preparation facilities under which the facilities and technical expertise of the Agricultural Research Service may be made available (7 U.S.C. 7624).

(104) Administer grants to consortia of land-grant colleges and universities to enhance the ability of the consortia to carry out multi-State research projects aimed at understanding and combating diseases of wheat, triticale, and barley caused by Fusarium graminearum and related fungi or Tilletia indica and related fungi (7 U.S.C. 7628).

(105) Administer a program of fees to support the Patent Culture Collection maintained and operated by the Agricultural Research Service (7 U.S.C. 7641).

(106) Update on a periodic basis, nutrient composition data, and report to Congress the method that will be used to update the data and the timing of the update (7 U.S.C. 7651).

(107) Ensure that each research activity conducted by an Agricultural Research Service facility serves a national or multistate need (7 U.S.C. 390a(e)).

(108) Exchange, sell, or otherwise dispose of animals, animal products, plants, and plant products, and use the sale or other proceeds to acquire such items or to offset costs related to the maintenance, care, or feeding of such items (7 U.S.C. 2241a).

(109) Establish and administer a pilot program at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center and National Agricultural Library to lease nonexcess property (7 U.S.C. 3125a note).

(110) Lease land at the Grazinglands Research Laboratory at El Reno, Oklahoma, pursuant to section 7503 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246).

(111) Administer a natural products research program (7 U.S.C. 5937).

(112) Provide staff support to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics related to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board (7 U.S.C. 3123).

(113) Carry out pollinator health research activities (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)(2)).

(114) Enter into grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, or other legal instruments with former Department of Agriculture agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 3315(b)).

(115) Enter into cooperative agreements with institutions of higher education regarding the dissemination of agricultural and food law research, legal tools, and information (7 U.S.C. 3125a-1).

(b) [Reserved]
