
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.66 Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
###### Delegations.

(a)Pursuant to ยง 2.21 (a)(1) and (a)(3), subject to the reservations in ยง 2.21(b)(1), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics (Under Secretary) to the Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture, who shall report directly to the Under Secretary.

(1) Administer research and technology development grants related to the economic feasibility of the manufacture and commercialization of natural rubber from hydrocarbon-containing plants and other critical agricultural materials from native agricultural crops having strategic and industrial importance (7 U.S.C. 178-178n).

(2) Administer the appropriation for the endowment and maintenance of colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanical arts (7 U.S.C. 321-326a).

(3) Administer teaching funds authorized by section 22 of the Bankhead Jones Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 329).

(4) Cooperate with the States for the purpose of encouraging and assisting them in carrying out research related to the problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects under the Hatch Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 361a-361i).

(5) Administer an agricultural research facilities proposal review process for submission to Congress (7 U.S.C. 390, 390a(a)-(d)).

(6) Carry out a program (IR-4 Program) for the collection of residue and efficacy data in support of registration or reregistration of pesticides for minor agricultural use and for use on specialty crops, and to determine tolerances for minor use chemical residues in or on agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 450i(e)).

(7) Administer the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative for competitive grants for fundamental and applied research, extension, and education to address food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)).

(8) Administer a program of making special grants for research, extension, or education activities (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)).

(9) Administer a next generation agriculture technology challenge competition to incentivize mobile technology that removes marketplace entry barriers for beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 3158).

(10) Administer, in cooperation with land-grant colleges and universities where applicable, a rural development research and extension program, a small farm research and extension program, and a rural health and safety education program under the Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2661-2667).
