
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 250 - DONATION OF FOODS FOR USE IN THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES AND POSSESSIONS AND AREAS UNDER ITS JURISDICTION
###### Subpart D - Donated Foods in Contracts With Food Service Management Companies
####### ยง 250.51 Crediting for, and use of, donated foods.
######## Method and frequency of crediting.

(b)The recipient agency may permit crediting for the value of donated foods through invoice reductions, refunds, discounts, or other means. However, all forms of crediting must provide clear documentation of the value received from the donated foods-e.g., by separate line item entries on invoices. If provided for in a fixed-price contract, the recipient agency may permit a food service management company to pre-credit for donated foods. In pre-crediting, a deduction for the value of donated foods is included in the established fixed price per meal. However, the recipient agency must ensure that the food service management company provides an additional credit for any donated foods not accounted for in the fixed price per meal-e.g., for donated foods that are not made available until later in the year. In cost-reimbursable contracts, crediting may be performed by disclosure; i.e., the food service management company credits the recipient agency for the value of donated foods by disclosing, in its billing for food costs submitted to the recipient agency, the savings resulting from the receipt of donated foods for the billing period. In all cases, the recipient agency must require crediting to be performed not less frequently than annually, and must ensure that the specified method of valuation of donated foods permits crediting to be achieved in the required time period. A school food authority must also ensure that the method, and timing, of crediting does not cause its cash resources to exceed the limits established in 7 CFR 210.9(b)(2).
