
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.66 Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
###### et seq.

(11) Provide national leadership and support for cooperative research and extension programs and other cooperative activities in the food and agricultural sciences to meet major needs and challenges in food and agricultural system productivity; development of new food, fiber, and energy sources; agricultural energy use and production; natural resources; promotion of the health and welfare of people; human nutrition; and international food and agriculture pursuant to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3101).

(12) Conduct a program of grants to States to expand, renovate, or improve schools of veterinary medicine (7 U.S.C. 3151).

(13) Promote and strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences; administer grants to colleges and universities; maintain a national food and agricultural education information system; conduct programs regarding the evaluation of teaching programs and continuing education; administer the National Food and Agricultural Sciences Teaching, Extension, and Research Awards Program to recognize and promote excellence in teaching, extension, and research in the food and agricultural sciences; administer programs relating to secondary education and 2-year postsecondary education, including grants to public secondary schools, institutions of higher education that award an associate's degree, other institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations; and report to Congress on the distribution of funds to carry out such teaching programs (7 U.S.C. 3152).

(14) Administer a program to make competitive grants to assist in the construction, alteration, acquisition, modernization, renovation, or remodeling of agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 390b).

(15) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.

(16) [Reserved]

(17) Administer and direct an Animal Health and Disease Research Program under the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3191-3201).

(18) Support continuing agricultural and forestry extension and research, at 1890 land-grant institutions, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3222, 3222d).

(19) Administer grants to 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, through Federal-grant funds to help finance and upgrade agricultural and food science facilities which are used for research, extension, and resident instruction (7 U.S.C. 3222b).

(20) Provide policy direction and coordinate the Department's work with national and international institutions and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research, extension, teaching, and development activities; administer a program of competitive grants for collaborative projects involving Federal scientists or scientists from colleges and universities working with scientists at international agricultural research centers in other nations focusing either on new technologies and programs for increasing the production of food and fiber or training scientists and a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities to strengthen United States economic competitiveness and to promote international market development; and establish a program in coordination with the Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from United States colleges and universities at Foreign Agricultural Service field offices overseas (7 U.S.C. 3291, 3292b).

(21) Administer grants to 1890 Institutions, including Tuskegee University, for purposes of awarding scholarships to individuals pursuing careers in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3222a).

(22) Conduct program evaluations to improve the administration and efficacy of the cooperative research grants and extension programs involving State agricultural experiment stations, cooperative extension services, and colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 3317).

(23) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research, extension or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318)

(24) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements with State cooperative institutions or other colleges and universities for the acquisition of goods or services in support of research, extension, or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences, including the furtherance of library and related information programs (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(25) Conduct research and develop and implement a program for the development of supplemental and alternative crops (7 U.S.C. 3319d).

(26) Administer an Aquaculture Assistance Program, involving centers, by making grants to eligible institutions for research and extension to facilitate or expand production and marketing of aquacultural food species and products; making grants to States to formulate aquaculture development plans for the production and marketing of aquacultural species and products; conducting a program of research, extension and demonstration at aquacultural demonstration centers (7 U.S.C. 3321-3322).

(27) Make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, including 1994 Institutions, to provide identifiable support specifically targeted for Tribal students (7 U.S.C. 3222e).

(28) Administer a cooperative rangeland research program (7 U.S.C. 3331-3336).

(29) Administer grants for basic research on cancer in animals and birds (7 U.S.C. 3902).

(30) Administer programs and conduct projects in cooperation with other agencies for research and education on sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5811-5813).

(31) Administer a cooperative research and extension program to optimize crop and livestock production potential in integrated resource management and integrated crop management systems (7 U.S.C. 5821).

(32) Establish an Agricultural Weather Office and administer a national agricultural weather information system, including competitive grants program for research in atmospheric sciences and climatology (7 U.S.C. 5852-5853).

(33) Administer a cooperative extension program on agricultural weather forecasts and climate information for agricultural producers and administer a grant program to States to administer programs for State agricultural weather information systems (7 U.S.C. 5854).

(34) Administer competitive grants for the acquisition of special purpose scientific research equipment for use in the food and agricultural sciences programs of eligible institutions (7 U.S.C. 3310a).

(35) Establish a National Plant Diagnostic Network to monitor and surveil through diagnostics threats to plant health from diseases or pests of concern in the United States and establish cooperative agreements with land-grant colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 8914(c)).

(36) [Reserved]

(37) Administer a grant program for risk assessment research to address concerns about the environmental effects of biotechnology (7 U.S.C. 5921).

(38)-(39) [Reserved]

(40) Conduct a research initiative known as the Agricultural Genome Initiative; and make grants or enter cooperative agreements on a competitive basis with individuals and organizations to carry out the Initiative (7 U.S.C. 5924).

(41) [Reserved]

(42) Administer a competitive high priority research and extension grants program in specified subject areas (7 U.S.C. 5925), including pollinator activities (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)) not otherwise delegated to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service in ยง 2.65(a)(113) and the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in ยง 2.80(a)(47).

(43) In consultation with the Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production Advisory Committee, administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities for the purposes of facilitating the development of urban, indoor, and other emerging agricultural production, harvesting, transportation, aggregation, packaging, distribution, and markets (7 U.S.C. 5925g).

(44) Administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities regarding organically grown and processed agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 5925b).

(45) -(49) [Reserved]

(50) Administer the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 for USDA (15 U.S.C. 638(e)-(k)).

(51) Administer a cooperative forestry program in accordance with the McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry Act, and administer a competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grant program (16 U.S.C. 582a-582a-8).

(52) Establish and administer the Forestry Student Grant Program to provide competitive grants to assist the expansion of the professional education of forestry, natural resources, and environmental scientists (16 U.S.C. 1649).

(53) Provide staff support to the Secretary of Agriculture in his or her role as permanent Chair for the Joint Subcommittee on Aquaculture established by the National Aquaculture Act of 1980 and coordinate aquacultural responsibilities within the Department (16 U.S.C. 2805).

(54) Administer extension education programs in aquaculture and administer grants related to research and development in aquaculture (16 U.S.C. 2806).
