
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.66 Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
###### et seq.

(56) Prepare an annual report to Congress on disbursements of funds for agricultural research and extension at 1890 and 1862 Institutions for programs under the following authorities: 7 U.S.C. 3221; 7 U.S.C. 3222; 7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c); and 7 U.S.C. 361a(7 U.S.C.

(57) Represent the Department on the Federal Interagency Committee on Education.

(58)-(60) [Reserved]

(61) Administer a cooperative agricultural extension program in accordance with the Smith-Lever Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 341-349).

(62) Administer a cooperative agricultural extension program relating to agriculture, uses of solar energy with respect to agriculture, home economics, and rural energy in the District of Columbia (DC Code 38-1202.09).

(63) Conduct educational and demonstration work related to the distribution and marketing of agricultural products under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627).

(64)-(71) [Reserved]

(72) Administer a cooperative extension program under the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 (7 U.S.C. 3004).

(73) [Reserved]

(74) Administer a National Food and Human Nutrition Research and Extension Program (7 U.S.C. 3171-3173, 3175)

(75) [Reserved]

(76) Design educational programs, implement, and distribute materials in cooperation with the cooperative extension services of the States emphasizing the importance of productive farmland pursuant to section 1544(a) of the Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4205(a)).

(77) Recognize centers of excellence, led by 1890 Institutions, focused on student success and workforce development; nutrition, health, wellness, and quality of life; farming systems, rural prosperity, and economic sustainability; global food security and defense, natural resources, energy, and environment; and emerging technologies, and submit an annual report to Congress on the resources invested in and work being done by such centers (7 U.S.C. 5926).

(78) Develop and make available handbooks, technical guides, and other educational materials emphasizing sustainable agriculture production systems and practices; carry out activities related to a national training program for sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5831, 5832).

(79) Administer grants to consortia of land-grant colleges and universities to enhance the ability of the consortia to carry out multi-State research projects aimed at understanding and combating diseases of wheat, triticale, and barley caused by Fusarium graminearum and related fungi or Tilletia indica and related fungi (7 U.S.C. 7628).

(80)-(81) [Reserved]

(82) Administer education programs on Indian reservations and tribal jurisdictions (7 U.S.C. 5930).

(83) Conduct education and extension programs related to nutrition education (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)).

(84) Administer a demonstration grants program for support of an assistive technology program for farmers with disabilities (7 U.S.C. 5933).

(85) Conduct educational and demonstrational work in cooperative farm forestry programs (16 U.S.C. 568).

(86) Provide for an expanded and comprehensive extension program for forest and rangeland renewable resources (16 U.S.C. 1671-1676).

(87) [Reserved]

(88) Provide technical, financial, and educational assistance to State foresters and State extension directors on rural forestry assistance (16 U.S.C. 2102).

(89) Provide educational assistance to State foresters under the Forest Stewardship Program (16 U.S.C. 2103a).

(90) Implement and conduct an educational program to assist the development of urban and community forestry programs (16 U.S.C. 2105).

(91) Administer an experienced services program to obtain technical, professional, and administrative services to support the research, education, and economics mission area of the Department (16 U.S.C. 3851).

(92) Authorize the use of the 4-H Club name and emblem (18 U.S.C. 707).

(93) Conduct demonstrational and promotional activities related to farm dwellings and other buildings for the purposes of reducing costs and adapting and developing fixtures and appurtenances for more efficient and economical farm use (42 U.S.C. 1476(b)).

(94) [Reserved]

(95) Exercise the responsibilities of the Secretary under regulations dealing with Equal Employment Opportunity (part 18 of this title).

(96) [Reserved]

(97) Provide educational and technical assistance in implementing and administering the conservation reserve program authorized in sections 1231-1244 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1509, 16 U.S.C. 3831-3844).

(98) Establish and administer a 1994 Institutions Endowment Fund and to enter into agreements necessary to do this (Section 533(b)(c) of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).
