
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.66 Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
###### et seq.

(99) Make grants in equal amounts to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to be used in the same manner as is prescribed for colleges under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417, chapter 841; 7 U.S.C. 321) (commonly known as the Second Morrill Act), and subject to the requirements of such Act (Sections 533 and 534 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).

(100) Make competitive Institutional Capacity Building Grants to assist 1994 Institutions with constructing, acquiring, and remodeling buildings, laboratories, and other capital facilities (including fixtures and equipment) necessary to conduct instructional activities more effectively in agriculture and sciences (Section 535 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).

(101) Make competitive grants to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to conduct agricultural research that addresses high priority concerns of tribal, national, or multistate significance (Section 536 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).

(102) Implement and administer the Community Food Projects Program under section 25 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2034).

(103) In consultation with the Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service, administer pilot projects to encourage the use of public-private partnerships committed to addressing food insecurity (7 U.S.C. 2036d).

(104) Develop and carry out a system to monitor and evaluate agricultural research and extension activities conducted or supported by the Department of Agriculture that will enable the Secretary to measure the impact and effectiveness of research, extension, and education programs according to priorities, goals, and mandates established by law. Conduct a comprehensive review of state-of-the-art information technology systems for use in developing the system (7 U.S.C. 3129).

(105) [Reserved]

(106) Administer grants to 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, through Federal-grant funds to help finance research facilities and equipment including agricultural libraries (7 U.S.C. 3223).

(107) Establish and administer competitive grants to Hispanic-serving Institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of Hispanic-serving Institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3241).

(108)-(109) [Reserved]

(110) Coordinate the development and carrying out by Department agencies of all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research conducted or funded by the Department involving biotechnology, including the development and implementation of guidelines for oversight of research activities, acting as liaison on all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research in biotechnology between agencies within the Department and between the Department and other governmental, educational, or private organizations and carrying out any other activities authorized by (7 U.S.C. 3121).

(111)-(112) [Reserved]

(113) Provide technical and educational assistance to conserve and enhance private grazing land resources (16 U.S.C. 2005b).
