
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 250 - DONATION OF FOODS FOR USE IN THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES AND POSSESSIONS AND AREAS UNDER ITS JURISDICTION
###### Subpart E - National School Lunch Program (NSLP) and Other Child Nutrition Programs
####### ยง 250.60 Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP).
######## Types and quantities of donated foods distributed.

(b)For each school year, the distributing agency receives, at a minimum, the national per-meal value of donated food assistance (or cash in lieu of donated foods) multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches and suppers served in the State in the previous school year, as established in Section 6(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)). The national per-meal value is adjusted each year to reflect changes in the Bureau of Labor Statistic's Producer Price Index for Foods Used in Schools and Institutions. The adjusted per-meal value is published in a notice in thein July of each year. Reimbursable lunches and suppers are those meeting the nutritional standards established in 7 CFR part 226. The number of reimbursable lunches and suppers may be adjusted during, or at the end of the school year, in accordance with 7 CFR part 226. In addition to Section 6 entitlement foods (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)), the distributing agency may also receive Section 14 donated foods (42 U.S.C. 1762(a)), and donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available, for distribution to child care and adult care institutions participating in CACFP.
