
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.66 Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
###### et seq.

(114) Provide technical assistance to farmers and ranchers under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (16 U.S.C. 3830).

(115)-(116) [Reserved]

(117) Represent the Department in international organizational activities and on international technical committees concerned with agricultural science, education, and development activities, including library and information science activities.

(118) [Reserved]

(119) Ensure that agricultural research, extension, or education activities administered, on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture address a concern that is a priority and has national, multistate, or regional significance (7 U.S.C. 7611).

(120) Solicit and consider input and recommendations from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education; ensure that Federally supported and conducted agricultural research, extension, and education activities are accomplished in accord with identified management principles; and promulgate regulations concerning implementation of a process for obtaining stakeholder input at 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institutions and Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 7612(b), (c), and (d)).

(121) Establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered on a competitive basis, and for relevancy and merit review of each agricultural research, extension, or education grant administered on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 7613(a)).

(122) Consider the results of the annual review performed by the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board regarding the relevance to priorities of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department and the adequacy of funding, when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department; and solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year's request for proposals for each activity funded on a competitive basis (7 U.S.C. 7613(c)).

(123) Require a procedure to be established by each 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institution and Hispanic-serving agricultural college and university, for merit review of each agricultural research and extension activity funded and review of the activity in accordance with the procedure (7 U.S.C. 7613(e)).

(124)-(127) [Reserved]

(128) Administer competitive grants for integrated, multifunctional agricultural research, education, and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 7626).

(129) Operate and administer the Food Animal Residue Avoidance Database through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with appropriate colleges or universities (7 U.S.C. 7642).

(130) Develop a national program of safe food handling education for adults and young people to reduce the risk of food-borne illness (7 U.S.C. 7655).

(131) Cooperate with other Federal agencies (including the National Science Foundation) in issuing joint requests for proposals, awarding grants, and administering grants under any competitive agricultural research, education, or extension grant program (7 U.S.C. 3319b).

(132) Administer a program of competitive grants, establish education teams, and establish an online clearinghouse of curricula and training materials and programs, all for training, education, outreach, and technical assistance initiatives for the benefit of beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2279(d)).

(133) Administer agricultural research, education, and extension activities (including through competitive grants), using any authority available to the Secretary, to reduce the vulnerability of the United States food and agricultural system to chemical or biological attack, to continue partnerships with institutions of higher education and other institutions to help form stable, long-term programs to enhance the biosecurity of the United States, to make competitive grants to universities and qualified research institutions for research on counterbioterrorism, and to counter or otherwise respond to chemical or biological attack (7 U.S.C. 3351).

(134) Administer a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities for expansion and security upgrades to enhance the security of agriculture against bioterrorism (7 U.S.C. 3352).

(135) Administer programs for distance education grants and resident instruction grants to eligible institutions in insular areas that have demonstrable capacity to carry out teaching and extension programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3361-3363).

(136) Administer a program of cooperative research (including through competitive award of grants and cooperative agreements to colleges and universities) and extension projects on carbon cycling in soils and plants, the exchange of other greenhouse gases from agriculture, and the carbon sequestration benefits of conservation practices (7 U.S.C. 6711).

(137) In consultation with the Secretary of Energy, administer competitive grants to provide education about carbon utilization and biogas (7 U.S.C. 8115).

(138) Administer a program of grants to the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, the Boy Scouts of America, the National 4-H Council, and the National FFA Organization to establish pilot projects to expand the programs carried out by the organizations in rural areas and small towns (7 U.S.C. 7630).

(139) Oversee implementation of the termination of Federal schedule A civil service appointments of State agricultural extension employees at land-grant colleges and universities (section 7220 of Pub. L. 107-171).

(140) Administer and direct a program of grants to the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute (section 10805 of Pub. L. 107-171).

(141) Formulate and carry out the Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment Act program authorized by the National Veterinary Medical Service Act (7 U.S.C. 3151a).

(142) Administer grants to assist the land-grant university in the District of Columbia to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-1).

(143) Administer grants to assist the land-grant colleges and universities in insular areas to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research; and to support tropical and subtropical agricultural research, including pest and disease research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-2).

(144) Enter into agreements necessary to administer an Hispanic-Serving Agricultural Colleges and Universities Fund; enter into agreements necessary to administer a program of making annual payments to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer an institutional capacity-building grants program for Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer a competitive grants program to fund fundamental and applied research and extension at Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities and to award competitive grants to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities to provide for training in the food and agricultural sciences of Hispanic agricultural workers and Hispanic youth working in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3243).

(145) Administer the New Era Rural Technology Program to make grants for technology development, applied research, and training to aid in the development of an agriculture-based renewable energy workforce (7 U.S.C. 3319e).

(146) Administer a competitive grants program to assist NLGCA Institutions in maintaining and expanding capacity to conduct education, research, and outreach activities relating to agriculture, renewable resources, and other similar disciplines (7 U.S.C. 3319i).

(147) [Reserved]

(148) Administer a competitive research and extension grants program to improve the farm management knowledge and skills of agricultural producers and establish and maintain a national, publicly available farm financial management database to support improved farm management (7 U.S.C. 5925f).

(149) Administer the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (7 U.S.C. 7632).

(150) Administer a competitive research and education grants program relating to antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant bacteria (7 U.S.C. 3202).

(151) Administer a competitive grants program to establish and maintain a Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (7 U.S.C. 5936).

(152) Administer a competitive grant program to support the development and expansion of advanced training programs in agricultural biosecurity planning and response for food science professionals and veterinarians (7 U.S.C. 8913).

(153) Administer a Sun Grants Program (7 U.S.C. 8114).

(154)-(155) [Reserved]

(156) Administer the Biomass Research and Development Initiative (7 U.S.C. 8108(e)); consult and coordinate, as appropriate, with the Under Secretary for Rural Development and other mission areas of the Department as deemed necessary in carrying out the authorities delegated herein.

(157) Administer a competitive grants program to encourage basic and applied research and the development of qualified agricultural countermeasures (7 U.S.C. 8921).

(158) Administer a competitive grants program to promote the development of teaching programs in agriculture, veterinary medicine, and disciplines closely allied to the food and agriculture system to increase the number of trained individuals with an expertise in agricultural biosecurity (7 U.S.C. 8922).

(159) Administer a program of providing grants to Alaska Native serving institutions and Native Hawaiian serving institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of those institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3156).

(160) Administer a competitive grant program for national food safety training, education, extension, outreach, and technical assistance (7 U.S.C. 7625).

(161) Enter into agreements with and receive funds from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of conducting cooperative research projects (7 U.S.C. 450a).

(162) Administer a food insecurity nutrition incentive program (7 U.S.C. 7517).

(163) Administer a food and agriculture service learning grant program (7 U.S.C. 7633).

(164) Administer a veterinary services grant program (7 U.S.C. 3151b).

(165) Administer a forestry and forestry products research and extension initiative (7 U.S.C. 7655b).

(b) [Reserved]
