
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart K - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
##### ยง 2.67 Administrator, Economic Research Service.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(8) Administer responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195), concerning estimates of supplies of agricultural commodities and evaluation of requirements therefor; food and agricultural aspects of economic stabilization and economic research; and coordination of energy programs.

(9) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318).

(10) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(11) Represent the Department in international organizational activities and on international technical committees concerned with agricultural science, education, and development activities, including library and information science activities.

(12) Facilitate access by research and extension professionals, farmers, and other interested persons in the United States to, and the use by those persons of, organic research conducted outside the United States (7 U.S.C. 5925d).

(13)-(14) [Reserved]

(15) Solicit and consider input and recommendations from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education (7 U.S.C. 7612(b)).

(16) Consider the results of the annual review performed by the Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board regarding the relevance to priorities of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department and the adequacy of funding, when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department; and solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year's request for proposals for each activity funded on a competitive basis (7 U.S.C. 7613(c)).

(17) Establish procedures that ensure scientific peer review of all research activities conducted by the Economic Research Service (7 U.S.C. 7613(d)).

(18) Include in each issuance of projections of net farm income an estimate of the net farm income earned by commercial producers in the United States that will in addition show the estimate of net farm income attributable to commercial producers of livestock, loan commodities, and agricultural commodities other than loan commodities (7 U.S.C. 7998).

(19) Conduct surveys and analysis and publish reports relating to organic production, handling, distribution, retail, and trend studies (including consumer purchasing patterns) (7 U.S.C. 5925c).

(20) Ensure that studies carried out by the Economic Research Service document the number, location, and economic contributions of socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in agricultural production (7 U.S.C. 2279(h)).

(21) Enter into agreements with and receive funds from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of conducting cooperative research projects (7 U.S.C. 450a).

(22) Coordinate implementation of section 10016 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding locally or regionally produced agricultural food products (7 U.S.C. 2204h).
