
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 251 - THE EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### ยง 251.10 Miscellaneous provisions.
####### State monitoring system.

(e)(1) Each State agency must monitor the operation of the program to ensure that it is being administered in accordance with Federal and State requirements. State agencies may not delegate this responsibility.

(2) Unless specific exceptions are approved in writing by FNS, the State agency monitoring system must include:

(i) An annual review of at least 25 percent of all eligible recipient agencies which have signed an agreement with the State agency pursuant to ยง 251.2(c), provided that each such agency must be reviewed no less frequently than once every four years; and

(ii) An annual review of one-tenth or 20, whichever is fewer, of all eligible recipient agencies which receive TEFAP commodities and/or administrative funds pursuant to an agreement with another eligible recipient agency. Reviews must be conducted, to the maximum extent feasible, simultaneously with actual distribution of commodities and/or meal service, and eligibility determinations, if applicable. State agencies must develop a system for selecting eligible recipient agencies for review that ensures deficiencies in program administration are detected and resolved in an effective and efficient manner.

(3) Each review must encompass, as applicable, eligibility determinations, food ordering procedures, storage and warehousing practices, inventory controls, approval of distribution sites, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and civil rights.

(4) Upon concurrence by FNS, reviews of eligible recipient agencies which have been conducted by FNS Regional Office personnel may be incorporated into the minimum coverage required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(5) If deficiencies are disclosed through the review of an eligible recipient agency, the State agency must submit a report of the review findings to the eligible recipient agency and ensure that corrective action is taken to eliminate the deficiencies identified.
