
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart G - Privacy Act Regulations
##### § 1.113 Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests.

(a) If an individual submitting a request for access under § 1.112 has asked that an agency authorize a personal inspection of records pertaining to him or her, and the agency has granted that request, the requester shall present himself or herself at the time and place specified in the agency's response or arrange another, mutually convenient, time with the appropriate agency official.

(b) Prior to inspection of the records, the requester shall present sufficient identification (e.g., driver's license, employee identification card, social security card, credit cards) to establish that the requester is the individual to whom the records pertain. If the requester is unable to provide such identification, the requester shall complete and sign in the presence of an agency official a signed statement asserting the requester's identity and stipulating that the requester understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another individual under false pretenses is a misdemeanor punishable by fine up to $5,000. No identification shall be required, however, if the records are required by 5 U.S.C. 552 to be released.

(c) Any individual who has requested access to records about himself or herself by personal inspection, and who wishes to have another person or persons accompany the requester during this inspection, shall submit a written statement authorizing disclosure of the record in the presence of such other person or persons.

(d) Any individual having made a personal inspection of records pertaining to the requester may request the agency to provide the requester copies of those records or any portion of those records. Each agency shall grant such requests but may charge fees in accordance with § 1.120.

(e) If an individual submitting a request for access under § 1.112 wishes to be supplied with copies of the records by mail, the requester shall include with his or her request sufficient data for the agency to verify the requester's identity. If the sensitivity of the records warrant it, however, the agency to which the request is directed may require the requester to submit a signed, notarized statement indicating that the requester is the individual to whom the records pertain and stipulating the requester understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another individual under false pretenses is a misdemeanor punishable by fine up to $5,000. No identification shall be required, however, if the records are required by 5 U.S.C. 552 to be released. If the agency to which this request is directed determines to grant the requested access, it may charge fees in accordance with § 1.120 before making the necessary copies.
