
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 252 - NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING PROGRAM
###### ยง 252.4 Application to participate and agreement.
####### Sale through distributor without dual billing.

(B)When end products are sold to recipient agencies through a distributor without dual billing, processors shall provide refunds to the distributor and ensure that the distributor provides discounts of equal value to recipient agencies. Under this system, the processor shall sell end products to a distributor at the processor's commercial/gross price for the end product. The processor's invoice shall reflect the value of commodities contained in the end product as established by the agreement. The processor shall ensure that the distributor submits a refund application to the processor within 30 days after the eligible recipient agency receives the processed end product. The processor shall ensure that the refund application includes documentation of the purchase of end products by the eligible recipient agency through substantiating invoices and that the recipient agency has purchased the end product at the net case price which reflects the value of the discount established by the agreement. Within 30 days of the receipt of the refund application, the processor shall issue payment directly to the distributor in an amount equal to the stated agreement value of the donated food contained in the purchased end products covered by the application. In no event shall refund applications for purchases during the period of agreement be accepted by the processors later than 60 days after the close of the agreement period. The processor shall verify a statistically valid sample of discount sales made by distributors without dual billing in a manner which ensures a 95 percent confidence level. All such sales reported during a quarter shall be verified at the end of that quarter. Processors shall verify that sales were made only to eligible recipient agencies and that the value of donated commodities was passed through to those recipient agencies. The processor shall report to FNS the level of invalid or inaccurate sales identified in each quarter within 60 days after the close of each quarter. At the same time such report is submitted, the processor shall submit to FNS a corrective action plan designed to correct problems identified in the verification effort. The processor shall adjust performance reports to reflect the invalid sales identified during the verification effort required by this paragraph. If, as a result of this verification, FNS determines that the value of donated food has not been passed on the recipient agencies or that end products have been improperly distributed, FNS may assert a claim against the processor.
