
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 252 - NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING PROGRAM
###### ยง 252.4 Application to participate and agreement.
####### Processor requirements and responsibilities.

(c)In accordance with the following provisions and the NCP agreement, any processor participating in the NCP Program may sell to any eligible recipient agency nationwide a processed product containing the donated food received from FNS.

(1) The processor shall submit to FNS end product data schedules which include a description of each end product to be processed, the quantity of each donated food and any other ingredient which is needed to yield a specific number of units of each end product. FNS may permit processors to specify the total quantity of any flavorings or seasonings which may be used without identifying the ingredients which are, or may be, components of seasonings or flavorings. The end product data schedule shall provide pricing information supplied by the processor as requested by FNS and a thorough explanation of what this pricing information represents. The end product data schedule shall be made a part of the NCP agreement.

(2) When determining the value of the donated food, the processor shall use the agreement value of the donated food which shall be the price assigned by the Department to a donated food which reflects the Department's current acquisition price, transportation and, if applicable, processing costs related to the food.

(3) The processor shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of FNS that internal controls are in place to insure that duplicate reporting of sales under the NCP Program and any other food distribution program does not occur.

(4) The processor shall use a method of selling end products to recipient agencies which ensures that the price of each case of end product is reduced by the agreement value of the donated commodity and ensures proper accountability. In line with FNS guidelines and subject to FNS approval, the processor shall select one or more of the following donated food value return systems to use during the term of the agreement. Regardless of the method used, processors shall provide pricing information summaries to recipient agencies as soon as possible after contract approval by FNS. If the pricing information changes during the contract period, processors shall provide updated pricing information to FNS and the recipient agencies 30 days prior to the effective date. Regardless of the method chosen for selling end products, the processor shall reduce his inventory only by the amount of donated food represented by the discount or refund placed on the end product.
