
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 252 - NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING PROGRAM
###### ยง 252.4 Application to participate and agreement.
####### Application by processors to participate.

(a)Any food processor is eligible to apply for participation in the NCP Program. Agreement applications may be filed with FNS at any time on an FNS-approved form. FNS will accept or reject the application of each individual food processor within 30 days from the date of receipt, except that FNS may, at its discretion, extend such period if it needs more information in order to make its determination. In determining whether to accept or reject an application, FNS shall take into consideration at least the following matters: the financial responsibility of the applicant; the ability of the applicant to meet the terms and conditions of the regulations and the NCP agreement; ability to accept and store commodities in minimum truckload quantities; historical performance under the State and NCP processing programs; anticipated new markets for NCP end products; geographic areas served by the processor; the ability of the applicant to distribute processed products to eligible recipient agencies; and a satisfactory record of integrity, business ethics and performance. In addition, the processors must demonstrate their ability to sell end products under NCP by submitting supporting documentation such as written intent to purchase, bids awarded, or historical sales performance. FNS will make a final determination based on all available documentation submitted.
