
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 252 - NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING PROGRAM
###### ยง 252.4 Application to participate and agreement.
####### Other value pass-through systems.

(iii)Processors may submit to FNS for approval any proposed value pass-through (VPT) system not identified in this section. The "other" VPT system must, in the judgment of FNS, be verifiable and easily monitored. Any VPT system approved under this part must comply with the sales verification requirements specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section or an alternative system approved by FNS. If an alternative system is approved, FNS will notify the States in which the system will be used. The Department retains the authority to inspect and review all pertinent records under all VPT systems, including the verification of a required statistically valid sample of sales. FNS may consider the paperwork and resource burden associated with alternative value pass-through systems when considering approval and reserves the right to deny approval of systems which are labor-intensive and provide no greater accountability than those systems permitted under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(5) The processor shall furnish to FNS prior to the ordering of any donated food for processing, a performance supply and surety bond obtained from surety companies listed in the current Department of Treasury Circular 570 or an irrevocable letter of credit to cover the amount of inventory on hand and on order.

(6) The processor shall draw down inventory only for the amount of donated food used to produce the end product. In instances in which concentrated skim milk is substituted for nonfat dry milk, the processor shall draw down donated nonfat dry milk inventory only in an amount equal to the amount of concentrated skim milk, based on milk solids content, used to produce the end product. Processors shall ensure that an amount equivalent to 100 percent of the donated food provided to the processor under the NCP Program is physically contained in end products. Additional commodities required to account for loss of donated food during production shall be obtained from non-donated food.

(7)(i) Only butter, cheese, corn grits, cornmeal, flour, macaroni, nonfat dry milk, peanut butter, peanut granules, roasted peanuts, rice, rolled oats, rolled wheat, shortening, vegetable oil, and spaghetti may be substituted as defined in ยง 252.2 and such other food as FNS specifically approves as substitutable under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(A) of this section (substitution of meat and poultry items shall not be permitted).

(A) Processors may request approval to substitute commercial foods for donated foods not listed in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section by submitting such request to FNS in writing and satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c)(7) of this section. FNS will notify the processor in writing of authorization to substitute commercial foods for donated foods not listed in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section and such authorization shall apply for the duration of all current contracts entered into by the processor pursuant to this section.

(B) The processor shall maintain records to substantiate that it continues to acquire on the commercial market amounts of substitutable food consistent with their levels of non-NCP Program production and to document the receipt and disposition of the donated food.

(C) FNS shall withhold deliveries of donated food from processors that FNS determines have reduced their level of non-NCP Program production because of participation in the NCP Program.

(ii) When the processor seeks FNS approval to substitute donated nonfat dry milk with concentrated skim milk under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(A) of this section, an addendum must be added to the request which states:

(A) The percent of milk solids that, at a minimum, must be contained in the concentrated skim milk;

(B) The weight ratio of concentrated skim milk to donated nonfat dry milk:
