
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 252 - NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING PROGRAM
###### ยง 252.4 Application to participate and agreement.
####### 3

() If more than one concentration of concentrated skim milk is to be used, a separate weight ratio must be specified for each concentration;

(C) The processor's method of verifying that the milk solids content in the concentrated skim milk is as stated in the request;

(D) A requirement that the concentrated skim milk shall be produced in a USDA approved plant or in a plant approved by an appropriate regulatory authority for the processing of Grade A milk products; and

(E) A requirement that the contact value of donated food for a given amount of concentrated skim milk used to produce an end product is the value of the equivalent amount of donated nonfat dry milk, based on the weight ratio of the two foods.

(iii) Substitution must not be made solely for the purpose of selling or disposing of the donated commodity in commercial channels for profit.

(8) The processor shall be liable for all donated food provided under the agreement. The processor shall immediately report to FNS any loss or damage to donated food and shall dispose of damaged or out-of-condition food in accordance with ยง 250.7.

(9) The processor shall submit to FNS monthly performance reports reflecting the sale and delivery of end products during the month.

(i) The processor shall ensure that the monthly performance report is postmarked no later than the last day of the month following the month being reported. The processor shall identify the month of delivery for each sale reported. The sale and delivery of end products for any prior month may be included on the monthly performance report. The processor monthly performance report shall include:

(A) The donated food inventory at the beginning of the reporting month;

(B) Amount of donated food received from the Department during the reporting month;

(C) Amount of donated food transferred to and/or from existing inventory;

(D) A list of all recipient agencies purchasing end products and the number of units of end products delivered to each during the report month;

(E) The net price paid for each unit of end product and whether the sale was made under a discount or refund system;

(F) When the sale is made through a distributor, the name of the distributor;

(G) The amount of inventory drawdown represented by reported sales; and

(H) The donated food inventory at the end of the reporting month.

(ii) In addition to reporting the information identified in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section, processors substituting concentrated skim milk for donated nonfat dry milk shall report the following information for the reporting period:

(A) The number of pounds of nonfat dry milk used in commercial products sold to outlets which are not recipient agencies; and

(B) The number of pounds of concentrated skim milk and the percent of milk solids contained therein, used in end products sold to recipient agencies.

(iii) At the end of each agreement period, there will be a final 90 day reconciliation period in which processors may adjust NCP sales for any month.

(10) The processor shall maintain complete and accurate records of the receipt, disposal and inventory of donated food including end products processed from donated food.

(i) The processor shall keep production records, formulae, recipes, daily or batch production records, loadout sheets, bills of lading, and other processing and shipping records to substantiate the use of the donated food and the subsequent redelivery to an eligible recipient agency.

(ii) The processor shall document that sales reported on monthly performance reports, specified in paragraph (c)(9) of this section were made only to eligible recipient agencies and that the normal wholesale price of the product was discounted or a refund payment made for the agreement value of the donated commodity.

(iii) When donated food is commingled with commercial food, the processor shall maintain records which will permit an accurate determination of the donated commodity inventory.

(iv) The processor shall make all pertinent records available for inspection and review upon request by FNS, its representatives and the General Accounting Office (GAO). All records must be retained for a period of three years from the close of the Federal fiscal year to which they pertain. Longer retention may be required for resolution of an audit or of any litigation.

(11) The processor shall obtain, upon FNS request, Federal acceptance service grading and review of processing activities and shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the grading and/or review.

(12) The processor shall indemnify and save FNS and the recipient agency free and harmless from any claims, damages, judgments, expenses, attorney's fees, and compensation arising out of physical injury, death, and/or property damage sustained or alleged to have been sustained in whole or in part by any and all persons whatsoever as a result of or arising out of any act or omission of the processor, his/her agents or employees, or caused or resulting from any deleterious substance, including bacteria, in any of the products produced from donated food.

(13) The processor shall be liable for payment for all uncommitted food inventory remaining at agreement termination.

(i) When agreements are terminated at the request of the processor or at FNS' request because there has been noncompliance on the part of the processor with the terms and conditions of the agreement, or if any right of FNS is threatened or jeopardized by the processor, the processor shall pay FNS an amount equal to the CCC unrestricted sales price, the cost CCC of replacement on the date the agreement is terminated, or the agreement value of donated commodities, whichever is highest, for the inventory, plus any expenses incurred by FNS.

(ii) When the agreements are terminated at FNS' request where there has been no fault or negligence on the part of the processor, the processor shall pay FNS an amount equal to the CCC unrestricted sales price, the cost to CCC of replacement on the date the agreement is terminated, or the agreement value of the donated commodities, whichever is highest, for the inventory, unless FNS and the processor mutually agree on another value.

(14) The processor shall not assign the processing contract or delegate any aspect of processing under a subcontract or other arrangement without the written consent of FNS. The subcontractor shall be required to become a party to the processing contract and conform to all conditions contained in that contract.

(15) The processor shall comply fully with the provisions of the NCP agreement and all Federal regulations and instructions relevant to the NCP Program.

(16) The processor shall label end products in accordance with ยง 250.15(j) and, when end products contain vegetable protein products, in accordance with 7 CFR part 210, 225, or 226 appendix A.

(17) The processor shall return to FNS any funds received from the sale of donated food containers and the market value or the price received from the sale of any by-products of donated food or commercial food which has been substituted for donated food.

(18) For any year in which a processor receives more than $250,000 in donated food, the processor shall obtain an independent audit conducted by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) for that year. Processors receiving $75,000 to $250,000 in donated food each year shall obtain an independent audit conducted by a CPA every two years and those receiving less than $75,000 in donated food each year shall obtain an independent audit conducted by a CPA every three years. Processors in the three year audit cycle shall move into the two year audit cycle when the value of donated food received reaches $75,000. If the Department determines that the audit is not acceptable or that the audit has disclosed serious deficiencies, the processor shall be subject to additional audits by OIG at the request of FNS.
