
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 253 - ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 253.4 Administration.
####### State agency administration.

(b)(1) If FNS determines that the ITO is capable of effective and efficient administration, the ITO shall administer the Food Distribution Program on all or part of the reservation. If FNS determines that the ITO is not capable of effective and efficient administration of the Food Distribution Program, the appropriate agency of the State government shall be responsible for the Food Distribution Program on all or part of the Indian reservation. In addition, the appropriate agency of the State government may administer the Program on behalf of an otherwise capable tribe if agreed to in writing by both parties.

(2) In the case where the Indian reservation boundaries cross State lines, the ITO and appropriate State agencies may jointly request FNS approval that a single State agency administer the Food Distribution Program on all or part of the Indian reservation.

(3) An agency of State government responsible for administering the Food Distribution Program may contract Program functions to an ITO. These functions include, but are not limited to, outreach, preparation of bilingual materials, commodity issuance, determination of food preferences of households, publicizing uses of commodities, and transportation and on-site delivery services. The State agency may also use the ITO in prescreening translations, interpretive services and other noncertification functions. The State agency shall not contract responsibility for certification activities such as interviews or eligibility determinations with an ITO that has been determined incapable of administering the Food Distribution Program. In all cases the State agency shall retain full responsibility for program administration.
