
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 253 - ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 253.7 Certification of households.
####### Interviews.

(5)All applicant households, including those submitting applications by mail, shall have an interview with a qualified eligibility worker prior to initial certification and all recertifications. At State agency discretion, applicants may be interviewed by telephone or in the home. No household shall be interviewed by telephone for any two consecutive certifications without a face-to-face interview. State agencies must attempt to schedule home visits in advance. Home visits cannot extend required processing standards set forth in paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(9) of this section. The individual interviewed may be the head of household, spouse, any other responsible member of the household or an authorized representative. The household, if it wishes, may be accompanied to the interview by anyone of its choice. The interviewer shall not only review the information that appears on the application, but shall explore and resolve with the household unclear and incomplete information. Households shall be advised of their rights and responsibilities during the interview. The interview shall be conducted as an official and confidential discussion of household circumstances. The applicant's right to privacy shall be protected during the interview. Facilities shall be adequate to preserve the privacy and confidentiality of the interview.
