
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 253 - ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 253.7 Certification of households.
####### Treatment of disqualified household members.

(f)(1) The following are not eligible to participate in the Food Distribution Program:

(i) Household members disqualified from the Food Distribution Program for an intentional program violation under ยง 253.8. These household members may participate, if otherwise eligible, in the Food Distribution Program once the period of disqualification has ended.

(ii) Household members disqualified from the Food Stamp Program for an intentional program violation under ยง 273.16 of this chapter. These household members may participate, if otherwise eligible, in the Food Distribution Program once the period of disqualification under the Food Stamp Program has ended. The State agency must, in cooperation with the appropriate food stamp agency, develop a procedure that ensures that these household members are identified.

(iii) Households disqualified from the Food Distribution Program for failure to pay an overissuance claim. The circumstances under which a disqualification is allowed for such failure are specified in FNS Handbook 501.

(2) During the time a household member is disqualified, the eligibility and food distribution benefits of any remaining household members will be determined as follows:
