
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 253 - ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 253.10 Commodity control, storage and distribution.
####### Storage facilities and practices.

(c)The State agency shall as a minimum ensure that:

(1) Adequate and appropriate storage facilities are maintained. The facilities shall be clean and neat and safe-guarded against theft, damage, insects, rodents and other pests.

(2) Department recommended dunnage, stacking and ventilation methods are followed.

(3) Commodities are stacked in a manner which facilitates an accurate inventory.

(4) Commodities are issued on a first-in, first-out basis.

(5) Commodities held in storage for a protracted period of time are reinspected prior to issuance.

(6) Out-of-condition commodities are disposed of in accordance with Department approved methods.

(7) Notification is provided to certified households of the location of distribution sites and days and hours of distribution.

(8) An adequate supply of commodities which are available from the Department is on hand at all distribution sites.

(9) Sufficient distribution sites, either stationary or mobile, are geographically located or routed in relation to population density of eligible households.

(10) Days and hours of distribution are sufficient for caseload size and convenience.

(11) Households are advised they may refuse any commodity not desired, even if the commodities are prepackaged by household size.

(12) Emergency issuance of commodities will be made to households certified for expedited service in accordance with the provisions of ยง 253.7(a)(9).

(13) Eligible households or authorized representatives are identified prior to the issuance of commodities.

(14) Authorized signatures are obtained for commodities issued and the issue date recorded.

(15) Posters are conspicuously displayed advising program participants to accept only those commodities, and in such quantities, as will be consumed by them.

(16) Complete and current records are kept of all commodities received, issued, transferred, and on hand and of any inventory overages, shortages, and losses.

(17) A list of commodities offered by the Department is displayed at distribution sites so that households may indicate preferences for future orders.
