
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 253 - ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 253.11 Administrative funds.
####### Method of payment to State agencies.

(g)(1) Payments are made to State agencies through a Letter of Credit or an advance by Treasury check. The Letter of Credit funding method shall be used by FNS except when the advances to be made within a 12 month period are estimated to be less than $120,000. However, FNS may, at its option, reimburse a State agency by Treasury check regardless of the amount in response to a valid claim submitted by the State agency.

(2) The Letter of Credit funding method shall be done in conjunction with Treasury Department procedures, Treasury Circular No. 1075 and through an appropriate Treasury Regional Disbursing Office (RDO). The Standard Form 183, "Request for Payment on Letter of Credit and Status of Funds Report," shall be correctly prepared and certified by a duly appointed official of the State for requesting payment from an RDO.

(3) The advance by Treasury check method shall be done by use of the Standard Form 270, "Request for Advance or Reimbursement," and procedures associated with its use. State agencies receiving payments under this method may request payments before cash outlays are made.

(4) Any State agency receiving payment under the Letter of Credit method or the advance by Treasury check method shall have in place and in operation, a financial management system which meets the standards for fund control and accountability prescribed in part 277 of this chapter, as amended. The State agency shall demonstrate on a continuing basis its willingness and ability to have and to function within procedures that will minimize the time lapse between the transfer of funds and its disbursement to meet obligations. For any State agency which does not meet the requirement of this paragraph, the reimbursement by Treasury check method shall be the preferred method for FNS to make payments to that State agency.
