
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - General Regulations and Policies - Food Distribution
##### PART 253 - ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 253.10 Commodity control, storage and distribution.
####### Damaged or out-of-condition commodities.

(f)The State agency shall immediately notify the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office (FNSRO) if any commodities are found to be damaged or out-of-condition at the time of arrival, or at any subsequent time, whether due to latent defects or any other reason. FNSRO shall advise the State agency of the appropriate action to be taken with regard to such commodities. If the commodities are declared unfit for human consumption in accordance with ยง 250.13(f) of this chapter, they shall be disposed of as provided for under that section. When out-of-condition commodities do not create a hazard to other food at the same location, they shall not be disposed of until FNSRO or the responsible commodity contractor approves. When circumstances require prior disposal of a commodity, the quantity and manner of disposition shall be reported to the appropriate FNSRO. If any damaged or out-of-condition commodities are inadvertently issued to a household and are rejected or returned by the household because the commodities were unsound at the time of issuance and not because the household failed to provide proper storage, care or handling, the State agency shall replace the damaged or out-of-condition commodities with the same or similar kind of commodities which are sound and in good condition. The State agency shall account for such replacements on its monthly inventory report.
