
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart N - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs
##### ยง 2.79 Administrator, Agricultural Marketing Service.
###### et seq.

(viii) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 9601).

(13) Administer a program for Dairy Product Mandatory Reporting (7 U.S.C. 1637-1637b), with the assistance of the Administrator, National Agricultural Statistics Service.

(14) Assist the Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service with implementing section 3205 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 7112 note) regarding the Consultative Group to Eliminate the Use of Child Labor and Forced Labor in Imported Agricultural Products.

(15) Assist the Administrator, Economic Research Service with implementing section 10016 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding locally or regionally produced agricultural food products (7 U.S.C. 2204h).

(16) Administer the United States Grain Standards Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 71-87h).

(17) Administer the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, as amended and supplemented.

(18) Enforce provisions of the Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601-1665, 1681-1681t), with respect to any activities subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, as amended and supplemented.

(19) Exercise the functions of the Secretary of Agriculture contained in section 1324 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1631).

(20) Administer responsibilities and functions assigned to the Secretary in section 11006 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 228 note), with respect to the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921.

(21) Administer the U. S. Warehouse Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 241-273), and perform compliance examinations for Agricultural Marketing Services programs.
