
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart N - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs
##### ยง 2.80 Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
###### Delegations.

(a)Pursuant to ยง 2.22(a)(2) and (a)(6) through (a)(9), and subject to reservations in ยง 2.22(b)(2), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service: Exercise functions of the Secretary of Agriculture under the following authorities:

(1) Administer the Foreign Service personnel system for employees of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 3922, except that this delegation does not include the authority to approve joint regulations issued by the Department of State relating to administration of the Foreign Service, nor an authority to represent the Department of Agriculture in interagency consultations and negotiations with the other foreign affairs agencies with respect to joint regulations.

(2) The Terminal Inspection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 166).

(3) The Honeybee Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 281-286).

(4) Section 18 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, as it pertains to the issuance of certificates of condition of live animals intended and offered for export (21 U.S.C. 618).

(5) The responsibilities of the United States under the International Plant Protection Convention.

(6) (Laboratory) Animal Welfare Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131-2159).

(7) Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1821-1831).

(8) 28 Hour Law, as amended (49 U.S.C. 80502).

(9) Export Animal Accommodation Act, as amended (46 U.S.C. 3901-3902).

(10) Purebred animal duty-free-entry provision of Tariff Act of June 17, 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202, part 1, Item 100.01).

(11) Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159).

(12) Conduct diagnostic and related activities necessary to prevent, detect, control or eradicate foot-and-mouth disease and other foreign animal diseases (21 U.S.C. 113a).

(13) The Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, section 203, 205, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1622, 1624), with respect to voluntary inspection and certification of animal products; inspection, testing, treatment, and certification of animals; and a program to investigate and develop solutions to the problems resulting from the use of sulfonamides in swine.

(14) Talmadge-Aiken Act (7 U.S.C. 1633) with respect to cooperation with States in control and eradication of plant and animal diseases and pests.
