
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart N - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs
##### ยง 2.80 Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(15) Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195), relating to protection of livestock, poultry and crops and products thereof from biological and chemical warfare; and utilization or disposal of livestock and poultry exposed to radiation.

(16) The Federal Noxious Weed Act of 1974, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2801 note; 2814).

(17) The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1544).

(18) Executive Order 11987, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 116.

(19) Section 101(d), Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 398).

(20) The Swine Health Protection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3801-3813).

(21) Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3371-3378).

(22) Title III (and title IV to the extent that it relates to activities under title III) of the Federal Seed Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1581-1610).

(23) Authority to prescribe the amounts of commuted traveltime allowances and the circumstances under which such allowances may be paid to employees covered by the Act of August 28, 1950 (7 U.S.C. 2260).

(24) Provide management support services for the Agricultural Marketing Service, as agreed upon by the agencies, with authority to take actions required by law or regulation. As used herein, the term management support services includes information technology, budget, finance, personnel, procurement, property management, communications, paperwork management, and related administrative services.

(25) Coordinate the development and carrying out by Department agencies of all matters and functions pertaining to the Department's regulation of biotechnology, and act as liaison on all matters and functions pertaining to the regulation of biotechnology between agencies within the Department and between the Department and other governmental and private organizations.

(26) The Act of March 2, 1931 (7 U.S.C. 8351-8352).

(27) The Act of December 22, 1987 (7 U.S.C. 8353).

(28) Authority to work with developed and transitional countries on agricultural and related research and extension, with respect to animal and plant health, including providing technical assistance, training, and advice to persons from such countries engaged in such activities and the stationing of scientists at national and international institutions in such countries (7 U.S.C. 3291(a)(3)).

(29) With respect to land and facilities under his or her authority, exercise the functions delegated to the Secretary by Executive Order 12580, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, under the following provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 ("the Act"), as amended:

(i) Sections 104 (a), (b), and (c)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604 (a), (b), and (c)(4)), with respect to removal and remedial actions in the event of release or threatened release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant into the environment;

(ii) Sections 104(e)-(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(e)-(h)), with respect to information gathering and access requests and orders; compliance with Federal health and safety standards and wage and labor standards applicable to covered work; and emergency procurement powers;

(iii) Section 104(i)(11) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(i)(11)), with respect to the reduction of exposure to significant risk to human health;

(iv) Section 104(j) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(j)), with respect to the acquisition of real property and interests in real property required to conduct a remedial action;

(v) The first two sentences of section 105(d) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(d)), with respect to petitions for preliminary assessment of a release or threatened release;

(vi) Section 105(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(f)), with respect to consideration of the availability of qualified minority firms in awarding contracts, but excluding that portion of section 105(f) pertaining to the annual report to Congress;

(vii) Section 109 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9609), with respect to the assessment of civil penalties for violations of section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), and the granting of awards to individuals providing information;

(viii) Section 111(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9611(f)), with respect to the designation of officials who may obligate money in the Hazardous Substances Superfund;

(ix) Section 113(k) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9613(k)), with respect to establishing an administrative record upon which to base the selection of a response action and identifying and notifying potentially responsible parties;

(x) Section 116(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9616(a)), with respect to preliminary assessment and site inspection of facilities;

(xi) Sections 117 (a) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9617 (a) and (c)), with respect to public participation in the preparation of any plan for remedial action and explanation of variances from the final remedial action plan for any remedial action or enforcement action, including any settlement or consent decree entered into;

(xii) Section 119 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9119), with respect to indemnifying response action contractors;

(xiii) Section 121 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9621), with respect to cleanup standards; and

(xiv) Section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), with respect to settlements, but excluding section 122(b)(1) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622(b)(1)), related to mixed funding agreements.

(30) With respect to facilities and activities under his or her authority, to exercise the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to section 1-102 related to compliance with applicable pollution control standards and section 1-601 of Executive Order 12088, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 243, to enter into an inter-agency agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an administrative consent order or a consent judgment in an appropriate State, interstate, or local agency, containing a plan and schedule to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable pollution control standards established pursuant to the following:
