
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 271 - GENERAL INFORMATION AND DEFINITIONS
###### ยง 271.5 Benefits as obligations of the United States, crimes and offenses.
####### Administrative review.

(4)(i) The actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property shall have 30 days from the date of the delivery of the notice of forfeiture to make a request for an administrative review of the forfeiture.

(ii) The request shall be made in writing to the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Office of Inspector General, USDA, or to his/her designee, hereinafter referred to as the reviewing official.

(iii) A request for an administrative review of the forfeiture of property shall include the following:

(A) A complete description of the property, including serial numbers, if any;

(B) Proof of the person's property interest in the property; and,

(C) The reason(s) the property should not be forfeited.

(iv) The requestor may, at the time of his/her written request for administrative review, also request an oral hearing of the reasons the property should not be forfeited.

(v) The burden of proof will rest upon the requestor, who shall be required to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the property should not be forfeited.

(vi) Should the administrative determination be in their favor, the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture may request that forfeited items be returned or that compensation be made if the custodian has already disposed of the property.

(vii) The reviewing official shall not remit or mitigate a forfeiture unless the requestor:

(A) Establishes a valid, good faith property interest in the property as owner or otherwise; and

(B) Establishes that the requestor at no time had any knowledge or reason to believe that the property was being or would be used in violation of the law; and

(C) Establishes that the requestor at no time had any knowledge or reason to believe that the owner had any record or reputation for violating laws of the United States or of any State for related crimes.

(viii) The reviewing official may postpone any decision until the conclusion of any related administrative, civil, or criminal proceeding.

(ix) The decision of the reviewing official as to the disposition of the property shall be the final agency determination for purposes of judicial review.
