
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### No sales taxes on SNAP purchases.

(b)(1) A State shall not participate in SNAP if State or local sales taxes or other taxes or fees, including but not limited to excise taxes, are collected within the State on purchases made with SNAP coupons. "Purchases made with food coupons" for purposes of this provision shall refer to purchases of "eligible foods" as defined in ยง 271.2. Where the total value of groceries being bought by the recipient is larger than the amount of coupons being presented by the recipient, only the portion of the sale made in exchange for SNAP benefits must be exempt from taxation in order for a State to satisfy the requirements of this provision. Although a SNAP recipient may use a combination of cash and SNAP benefits in making a food purchase, only the dollar amount represented by the food coupons needs to be exempt from taxation.

(2) State and/or local law shall not permit the imposition of tax on food paid for with coupons. FNS may terminate the issuance of coupons and disallow administrative funds otherwise payable pursuant to part 277 in any State where such taxes are charged. Action to disallow administrative funds shall be taken in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 276.4.

(3) A State or local area which taxes some, but not all, eligible food items shall ensure that retail food stores in that locale sequence purchases of eligible foods paid for with a combination of coupons and cash so as to not directly or indirectly charge or assign a tax to SNAP recipients on eligible food items purchased with coupons. Prohibited methods include, but are not limited to, the allocation of coupons first to non-taxable eligible items, and the application of cash, rather than coupons, to taxable eligible food.
