
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Tax Information and Security Guidelines.

(2) Recipients of information released under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must adequately protect the information against unauthorized disclosure to persons or for purposes not specified in this section. In addition, information received through the IEVS must be protected from unauthorized disclosure as required by regulations established by the information provider. Information released to the State agency pursuant to section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 shall be subject to the safeguards established by the Secretary of the Treasury in section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code and implemented by the Internal Revenue Service in its publication,

(3) If there is a written request by a responsible member of the household, its currently authorized representative, or a person acting on its behalf to review material and information contained in its casefile, the material and information contained in the casefile shall be made available for inspection during normal business hours. However, the State agency may withhold confidential information, such as the names of individuals who have disclosed information about the household without the household's knowledge, or the nature or status of pending criminal prosecutions.

(4) Disclosure of information obtained from the National Accuracy Clearinghouse (NAC), as described in ยง 272.18, shall be restricted to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or SNAP regulations in this subchapter. Information obtained from the NAC may only be used for the purpose of preventing multiple issuances of SNAP benefits to an individual by more than one State agency in a given month. Recipients of information from the NAC must adequately protect the information against disclosure to unauthorized persons and use for purposes not specified in this paragraph (c)(4).
