
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart P - Delegations of Authority by the Assistant Secretary for Administration
##### ยง 2.90 Director, Office of Property and Environmental Management.
###### Delegations.

(a)Pursuant to ยง 2.24(a)(6) of this chapter, and with due deference for delegations to other Departmental Administration officials, the following delegations of authority are made by the Assistant Secretary for Administration to the Director, Office of Property and Environmental Management:

(1) Promulgate policies, standards, techniques, and procedures, and represent the Department, in the following:

(i) Utilization, value analysis, construction, maintenance, and disposition of real and personal property, including control of space assignments.

(ii) Motor vehicle and aircraft fleet and other vehicular transportation.

(iii) Transportation of things (traffic management).

(iv) Prevention, control, and abatement of pollution with respect to Federal facilities and activities under the control of the Department (Executive Order 12088, "Federal Compliance With Pollution Control Standards," 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 243).

(v) Development and implementation of sustainable operations actions including establishing and achieving greenhouse gas emission reduction goals, reducing energy intensity, increasing renewable energy use, increasing water efficiency, reducing petroleum use and increasing alternative fuel use, increasing recycling and waste diversion, preventing pollution, reducing use of toxic chemicals, procuring sustainable products and services, achieving sustainable principles for new and existing buildings, promoting electronic stewardship, and continuing environmental management system use. Maintain liaison with the Office of the Federal Environmental Executive, the Council on Environmental Quality, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Department of Energy, and other Government agencies in these matters.

(2) Exercise the following special authorities:

(i) Maintain custody and permit appropriate use of the official seal of the Department.

(ii) Establish policy for the use of the official flags of the Secretary and the Department.

(iii) Coordinate collection and disposition of personal property of historical significance.

(iv) Make information returns to the Internal Revenue Service as prescribed by 26 U.S.C. 6050M and by 26 CFR 1.6050M-1 and such other Treasury regulations, guidelines or procedures as may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6050M. This includes making such verifications or certifications as may be required by 26 CFR 1.6050M-1 and making the election allowed by 26 CFR 1.6050M-1(d)(5)(1).

(v) Represent the Department in working with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the General Services Administration, OMB, and other organizations or agencies on matters related to assigned responsibilities.

(vi) Redelegate, as appropriate, the authority in paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(6) of this section to agency Property Officials or other qualified agency officials with no power of further redelegation.

(3) Transfer excess research equipment to eligible educational institutions or certain non-profit organizations for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities under section 11(i) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(i)) (7 CFR part 2812).

(4) Promulgate policy and obtain and furnish Federal excess personal property in accordance with section 923 of Public Law 104-127 (7 U.S.C. 2206a), to support research, educational, technical and scientific activities or for related programs, to:

(i) Any 1994 Institutions (as defined in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note)).
