
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart P - Delegations of Authority by the Assistant Secretary for Administration
##### ยง 2.90 Director, Office of Property and Environmental Management.
###### et seq.

(ii) Any Institutions eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321,) including Tuskegee University.

(iii) Any Hispanic-serving Institutions (as defined in section 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)).

(5) Make available to organizations excess or surplus computers or other technical equipment of the Department for the purpose of distribution to cities, towns, or local government entities in rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2206b).

(6) Issue regulations and directives to implement or supplement the Federal Property Management Regulations (41 CFR chapter 101) and the Federal Management Regulation (41 CFR chapter 102).

(7) Related to compliance with environmental laws and sustainable operating requirements.

(i) Serve as Departmental Administration Member and Executive Secretary of the USDA Sustainable Operations Council.

(ii) Represent USDA in consulting or working with the EPA, the Council on Environmental Quality, the Domestic Policy Council, and others to develop policies relating to hazardous materials management and Federal facilities compliance with applicable pollution control laws.

(iii) Monitor, review, evaluate, and oversee hazardous materials management program activities and compliance Department-wide.

(iv) Monitor, review, evaluate, and oversee USDA agency expenditures for hazardous materials management program accomplishments.
