
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart P - Delegations of Authority by the Assistant Secretary for Administration
##### ยง 2.90 Director, Office of Property and Environmental Management.
###### et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(v) Represent USDA on the National Response Team and exercise responsibility for USDA response efforts for hazardous substance releases and oil spills pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601,); the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251,); Oil Pollution Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 2701,); Executive Order 12580, "Superfund Implementation," 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193; Executive Order 12777, "Implementation of section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of October 18, 1972, as amended, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990," 3 CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 351, and the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Contingency Plan, 40 CFR part 300. When a spill of national significance is declared under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, responsibility for USDA response efforts will transfer to the Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Coordination, as determined by the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(vi) Approve disbursements from the New World Mine Response and Restoration Account, approve the New World Mine Response and Restoration Plan, and make quarterly reports to Congress under Sections 502(d) and (f) of Title V of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998, Public Law 105-83.

(vii) Ensure that the Hazardous Materials Management Program Department-wide is accomplished with regard to, and in compliance with, Executive Order 12898, "Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations," 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 859.

(viii) Take such action as may be necessary, with the affected agency head and with the concurrence of the General Counsel, including issuance of administrative orders and agreements with any person to perform any response action under sections 106(a) and 122 (except subsection (b)(1)) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9606(a), 9622), pursuant to sections 4(c)(3) and 4(d)(3) of Executive Order 12580, "Superfund Implementation," 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, as amended by Executive Order 13016, "Amendment to Executive Order No. 12580," 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 214.

(ix) Represent USDA on the EPA Brownfields Federal Partnership and coordinate USDA support for Brownfields redevelopment and establish policy and guidance for the implementation of the June 2003 amendment to Executive Order 12580, "Superfund Implementation," 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193 (Executive Order 13308, "Further Amendment to Executive Order 12580, As Amended, Superfund Implementation," 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 239).

(8) Exercise responsibility for USDA response efforts when a spill of national significance is declared under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as determined by the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(b) [Reserved]
