
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment 245.

(49)The mail issuance loss rates of 0.75 percent and $2,250 are effective January 1, 1983. The mail issuance loss rate of 0.5 percent and $1,500 are effective October 1, 1983. For the second quarter of fiscal year 1983 only, FNS will look at Statewide loss rates and the loss rates of individual reporting units within the State. Where the loss rate for individual reporting units within the State is over the tolerance in that quarter and the Statewide loss rate is also over tolerance, FNS will assess liability for losses exceeding the tolerance reported for the second quarter of 1983. Where the loss rate for individual reporting units within a State are over tolerance for the second quarter, but the Statewide loss rate is under tolerance, State agencies shall have one additional quarter (the third Fiscal Year 1983 quarter) to bring such individual reporting units' loss rates into compliance with the tolerance levels. Thus for these reporting units, FNS will assess liability beginning with the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1983 and each quarter thereafter for losses which exceed the tolerance levels, regardless of Statewide loss rate. FNS will bill State agencies for losses on a semiannual basis.
