
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment 260.

(68)(i) The quality control review provisions contained in Amendment 260 are effective starting with the beginning of Fiscal Year 1984, except as provided in the following sentences. All cases sampled for the six months October 1983 through March 1984 shall be disposed of and reported within 95 days of March 31, 1984. Cases sampled for April 1984 and for months thereafter shall be disposed of and reported according to § 275.21. For example, 90 percent of April cases are due within 75 days of April 30, and 100 percent are due within 95 days of that date. The structure of sample frames specified in § 275.11(e) must be implemented no later than the sample month of October 1984.

(ii) Starting with the October 1983 sample month, cases must be determined complete, not complete, or not subject to review according to §§ 275.12(g) and 275.13(e). As of the beginning of Fiscal Year 1984 the sample sizes stated in § 275.11(b) and related sampling plan requirements are effective, and State agencies are required to meet the completion standard stated in § 275.11(d). State agencies currently sampling at the levels provided in § 275.11(b)(1)(iii) must submit to their respective FNS Regional Offices the reliability statement required by § 275.11(a)(2) within 30 days of the publication of this rule, or no later than the second month after publication of this rule begin sampling at the levels specified in § 275.11(b)(1)(ii).
