
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment 242.

(58)State agencies shall implement the disqualification penalties for intentional Program violation, and the improved recovery of overpayments provisions contained in Amendment 242 no later than April 1, 1983.

(i) The provision in § 273.11(c) for handling the income and resources of an individual disqualified for intentional Program violation shall apply to any individual disqualified for such a violation since the implementation of the fraud disqualification provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. The disqualification procedures for intentional Program violation in § 273.16 shall apply to any individual alleged to have committed one or more acts of intentional Program violation since the implementation of the fraud disqualification provisions under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. However, the disqualification penalties in § 273.16(b) shall apply only to individuals disqualified for acts of intentional Program violation which occur after implementation of this amendment. In addition, the disqualification penalties in § 273.16(b) shall apply only to individuals disqualified for acts of intentional Program violation which occurred either during a certification period based on an application form containing these penalties or after receipt of written notification from the State agency of these penalties. Recurring acts of intentional Program violation which occur over a period of time prior to and after implementation of this final rule shall not be separated. Only one penalty can be imposed for such recurring violations and the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification penalties specified in this amendment. The reporting requirements of § 273.16(i) shall become effective upon implementation, however, the State agency shall have until October 1, 1983, to submit such reports on individuals disqualified under previous regulations implementing the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

(ii) The recovery provisions for claims against households in § 273.18 shall apply to any overissuance caused by an action which occurred after implementation of regulations promulgating the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. And, the procedures for calculating the amount of overissuances as specified in § 273.18(c) shall apply to any month in which an overissuance occurred retroactive to March 1, 1979. However, State agency retention of 50 percent of the value of collected intentional Program violation claims and 25 percent of the value of collected inadvertent household error claims as provided in § 273.18(h) shall apply to any collection action retroactive to January 1, 1982. The State agency shall have the option of reinstating any claim previously suspended, but not terminated, under the recovery provisions of regulations implementing the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and, once reinstated, such claims shall be subject to the recovery provisions contained in this amendment. However, the State agency shall not reinstate any amount of a claim compromised or any claim terminated under previous regulations implementing the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. The submission requirements for the Form FNS-209, Status of Claims Against Households, as set forth in § 273.18(h) shall become effective with the quarter ending March 31, 1983.
