
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment 264.

(70)These rules are effective on May 29, 1986. No later than that date State agencies are required to submit the attachment to their State Plan of Operation specified in § 272.2 and in § 272.8(i), documenting either full implementation of these rules or good faith efforts to implement them. The documentation of full implementation or of good faith efforts shall show either that the State agency is routinely requesting and using, or shall show the dates when it will begin routinely to request the use, information from the various data sources specified in § 272.8(a) according to the frequencies for requests, timeframes and other requirements of § 272.8(e), (f) and (g). Full implementation shall include requests for available information from the Social Security Administration for all recipients for which such information has not been previously requested. The 30-day timeframe specified in § 272.8(g) is effective for applicant households which become recipients as discussed in § 272.8(e)(1) as soon as a State agency begin receiving information from particular data sources.

(i) A Plan describing good faith efforts shall at a minimum document that the State agency is currently in compliance with wage match criteria as specified in the final rulemaking of November 5, 1982 (47 FR 50180), assure that such compliance will continue at current levels until such time as these provisions are implemented, and provide an implementation schedule that reflects full compliance in the minimum amount of additional time. Requests for delays of implementation beyond May 29, 1986 shall identify the applicable regulation part, the date for implementation, justification for the delay, and the implementation plan.

(ii) The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services and with the Secretary of the Department of Labor prior to the approval of Plans of Operation documenting good faith efforts. In no event shall the Secretary approve a delay of the provisions of individual notification in § 273.2(f)(9) beyond the initial implementation date of any of these new provisions.

(iii) Implementation schedules beyond September 30, 1986 are not approvable, with the following exception: If on April 1, 1985 no SWICA exists in a particular State, the provisions of the rule as they relate to SWICAs shall be effective upon the designation of a SWICA. Implementation of a SWICA after April 1, 1985 shall take place as soon thereafter as possible but in no event later than September 30, 1988. All SWICAs with delayed implementation shall be in operation so that wage information is reported to them starting with the month of October 1988.
