
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment 270.

(74)(i) State agencies shall implement the earned income and dependent care deduction amounts and the resource limit provisions of Amendment 270 on May 1, 1986. If, for any reason, a State agency fails to implement these provisions on that date, households shall be provided the lost benefits which they would have received if the State agency had implemented these provisions as required.

(ii) The provisions of ยง 272.1(b) regarding the prohibition of State or local sales taxes on foods purchased with SNAP coupons shall be implemented on October 1 of the calendar year during which the first regular session of each State's Legislature is convened following enactment of Pub. L. 99-198 (enacted December 23, 1985). A "regular session" means a scheduled session of a State's legislature convened to address the usual range of statutory and budgetary issues. A "budgetary" session of a legislature shall be considered a "regular session" if State rules allow for statutory issues to be introduced at these "budgetary" sessions even if rules governing these special procedures are stringent.

(A) FNS may approve a delay in the above implementation date if a State provides FNS a request documenting that such date would either:
