
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 294.,Amendment No. 294.

(90)State agencies shall implement the Title IV-D child support income exclusion provision of Amendment No. 294 at its own option, provided it has procedures in place, at the time of implementation, for applying the provision to all affected households and for calculating and reimbursing FNS as required under the provision. State agencies shall implement the remaining provisions of Amendment No. 294 retroactively to April 1, 1987. State agencies shall provide restored benefits, if appropriate, back to the date of application or April 1, 1987, whichever occurred later. Any affected household that applied for Program benefits from April 1, 1987 until implementation of this rule and was denied benefits is entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or April 1, 1987, whichever occurred later, if the household is otherwise entitled to benefits and requests a review of its case or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed. The provision at 7 CFR 273.17, limiting restored benefits to 12 months, shall not apply to households entitled to resorted benefits under the provisions ofFor QC purposes, implementation variances shall not be identified unless a case meets all four of the following conditions: the case's review date is after August 31, 1987; the State agency certified or recertified the case (or was required to recertify the case) after August 31, 1987; the certification or recertification was effective for the review date (or the required recertification should have been effective for the review date); and in a retrospective budget system, the household's budget month was September 1987 or later or in a prospective budget system, the household's issuance month was September 1987 or later. For the purpose of this amendment, State agencies shall not establish a claim against any household which received overissued benefits resulting solely from retroactive implementation of the JTPA income provision in ยง 273.9(b)(1)(v).
