
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 298.

(93)The provisions of Amendment No. 298 are effective, and shall be implemented, as follows:

(i) The provision in § 271.2 of this amendment which defines "General assistance" and the provisions contained in § 273.9(b)(2)(i), § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(A), (c)(1)(ii)(B), and (c)(1)(ii)(C), regarding exclusion of certain PA/GA vendor payments are effective retroactively to April 1, 1987. The provision in § 273.9(c)(1)(iv)(B), exclusion of emergency/special PA/GA vendor payments, is also effective retroactive to April 1, 1987, however, this provision reflects current policy and requires no implementation efforts by State agencies. State agencies shall immediately implement the other provisions listed above. Affected households shall be entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or April 1, 1987, whichever occurred later.

(ii) The technical amendment to part 277 is effective September 29, 1987, and does not require implementation efforts by State agencies. The remaining provisions of Amendment No. 298 are effective, and must be implemented, as follows:

(A) Section 271.2, definition of "Homeless individual," effective July 22, 1987. State agencies shall immediately inform caseworkers of the new definition. No other implementation efforts are required to the State agencies.

(B) Section 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(D), the income exclusion of certain PA/GA vendor payments, is effective and shall be implemented for new applicant households which apply for benefits during the period beginning October 20, 1987 and ending September 30, 1989. This provision does not apply to allotments issued to any household for any month beginning before the effective period of the provision. State agencies shall convert their affected current caseload to this provision, if otherwise eligible, at recertification, when the household requests a review of its case, or when the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed but not prior to October 20, 1987.

(C) Section 272.5, the financial reimbursement for Program informational activities for the homeless, is effective July 22, 1987.

(D) Section 273.1(a)(2)(i)(C), § 273.1(a)(2)(i)(D), § 273.10(f)(2), the exception to certain household composition requirements, and the rule regarding recertification of households subject to the exception, are effective and must be implemented on October 1, 1987. Households which apply for benefits on or after October 1, 1987 may be granted separate household status under this provision. Current participants which may be eligible for separate household status under this provision, may be granted separate status, but not prior to October 1, 1987, if the household requests separate status and the State agency determines that the household meets the requirements of this provision.

(E) Section 273.2(i), the expansion of expedited service, is effective, and must be implemented, for affected households applying for Program benefits on or after December 1, 1987.

(F) Section 273.9(a)(3), regarding the date of making the annual adjustment to the income standards, is effective with the 1988 annual adjustment. The July 1, 1987 income limits will remain in effect until October 1, 1988.

(G) The first three sentences of § 273.9(d)(8)(i), the raising of the shelter deduction limit for the 48 States and DC., Alaska, Hawaii, Guam and Virgin Islands, are effective October 1, 1987. State agencies shall implement the higher deduction limits appearing in the first sentence of § 273.9(d)(8)(i) on October 1, 1987 only for households whose certification periods begin on or after October 1, 1987. State agencies shall implement the lower deduction limits appearing in the second sentence of § 273.9(d)(8)(i) on October 1, 1987 only for households whose certification periods begin before October 1, 1987. The State agency shall implement the higher deduction limits for households whose certification periods begin before October 1, 1987 beginning with the month in which such household is recertified after October 1, 1987.

(H) Section 273.9(d)(7)(i), the change in the standard deduction methodology, is effective October 1, 1987.

(I) The last sentence of § 273.9(d)(8)(i), the change in the excess shelter deduction methodology, is effective, October 1, 1988.

(J) Section 273.18(c)(2)(ii), the earned income deduction penalty, is effective on September 5, 1987. State agencies which issue on a calendar month basis, shall apply this provision to allotments issued for October 1987 and all allotments for subsequent months. State agencies which issue on other than a calendar month basis shall apply the provision to the issuance for the first issuance month beginning after September 5, 1987.

(iii) State agencies must implement the provisions as outlined in paragraph (g)(93)(ii) of this section on the specific dates required for each provision. If, for any reason, the State agency fails to implement the provisions on the required date, affected households, if appropriate, shall be entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or the effective date of the provision involved, whichever occurred later.
