
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart P - Delegations of Authority by the Assistant Secretary for Administration
##### ยง 2.93 Director, Office of Contracting and Procurement.
###### et seq.

(v) Implementation of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601,).

(vi) Implementation of the policies and procedures set forth in OMB Circular No. A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities.

(3) Exercise the following special authorities:

(i) The Director, Office of Contracting and Procurement, is designated as the Departmental Debarring Officer and authorized to perform the functions of 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4 related to procurement activities, except for commodity acquisitions on behalf of the Commodity Credit Corporation (7 CFR part 1407), with authority to redelegate suspension and debarment authority for contracts awarded under the School Lunch and Surplus Removal Programs (42 U.S.C. 1755 and 7 U.S.C. 612c).

(ii) Promulgate regulations for the management of contracting and procurement for information technology and telecommunication equipment, software, services, maintenance and related supplies.

(iii) Represent the Department in working with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the General Services Administration, OMB, and other organizations or agencies on matters related to assigned responsibilities.

(iv) Conduct liaison with the Office of Federal Register (1 CFR part 16) including the making of required certifications pursuant to 1 CFR part 18.

(4) Exercise authority under the Department's Chief Acquisition Officer (the Assistant Secretary for Administration) to integrate and unify the management process for the Department's major system acquisitions and to monitor implementation of the policies and practices set forth in OMB Circular No. A-109, Major Systems Acquisitions, with the exception that major system acquisitions for information technology shall be under the cognizance of the Chief Information Officer. This delegation includes the authority to:

(i) Ensure that OMB Circular No. A-109 is effectively implemented in the Department and that the management objectives of the Circular are realized.

(ii) Review the program management of each major system acquisition, excluding information technology.

(iii) Designate the program manager for each major system acquisition, excluding information technology.

(iv) Designate any Departmental acquisition, excluding information technology, as a major system acquisition under OMB Circular No. A-109.

(5) Pursuant to Executive Order 12931, "Federal Procurement Reform," and 41 U.S.C. 1702(c), serve as the Senior Procurement Executive for the Department with responsibility for the following:

(i) Prescribing and publishing Departmental acquisition policies, advisories, regulations, and procedures.

(ii) Taking any necessary actions consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures, with respect to purchases, contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.

(iii) Appointing contracting officers.

(iv) Establishing clear lines and limitations of contracting authority through written delegations of authority.

(v) Approving any Departmental and component agency procurement systems and processes.

(vi) Managing and enhancing career development of the Department's acquisition workforce.

(vii) Participating in the development of Governmentwide procurement policies, regulations and standards, and determining specific areas where Governmentwide performance standards should be established and applied.

(viii) Developing unique Departmental standards as required.

(ix) Overseeing the development of procurement goals, guidelines, and innovation.

(x) Measuring and evaluating procurement office performance against stated goals.

(xi) Advising the Assistant Secretary for Administration whether procurement goals are being achieved.

(xii) Prescribing standards for agency Senior Contracting Officials.

(xiii) Redelegating, suspending, or revoking, as appropriate, the authority in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section to agency Senior Contracting Officials or other qualified agency officials with no power of further redelegation.

(xiv) Redelegating, suspending, or revoking, as appropriate, the authorities in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section to agency Senior Contracting Officials or other qualified agency officials with the power of further redelegation.

(6) Represent the Department in establishing standards for acquisition transactions within the electronic data interchange environment.

(7) Designate the Departmental Task Order Ombudsman pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 253j.

(8) Serve as Departmental Remedy Coordination Official pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 255 to determine whether payment to any contractor should be reduced or suspended based on substantial evidence that the request of the contractor for advance, partial, or progress payment is based on fraud.
