
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart P - Delegations of Authority by the Assistant Secretary for Administration
##### ยง 2.93 Director, Office of Contracting and Procurement.
###### et seq.

(12) Pursuant to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Act), as amended (41 U.S.C. 401,), designate the Department's Advocate for Competition with the responsibility for section 20 of the Act (41 U.S.C. 418), including:

(i) Reviewing the procurement activities of the Department.

(ii) Developing new initiatives to increase full and open competition.

(iii) Developing goals and plans and recommending actions to increase competition.

(iv) Challenging conditions unnecessarily restricting competition in the acquisition of supplies and services.

(v) Promoting the acquisition of commercial items.

(vi) Designating an Advocate for Competition for each procuring activity within the Department.

(13) In coordination with the Chief Financial Officer, implement the debarment authorities in section 14211 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2209j), in connection with procurement activities.

(14) Provide services, including procurement of supplies, services, and equipment, with authority to take actions required by law or regulation to perform such services for:

(i) The Secretary of Agriculture.

(ii) The general officers of the Department, except the Inspector General.

(iii) Any other offices or agencies of the Department as may be agreed, including as a Working Capital Fund activity.

(b) [Reserved]
