
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 310.

(106)(i) The provisions of this amendment which adopt, as final, interim provisions published July 17, 1987 and those which redesignate or otherwise slightly modify the July 17 interim provisions for clarity only are effective retroactively to April 1, 1987. The conforming amendment at § 273.11(e)(7) is effective retroactively to February 25, 1986. The remaining technical amendments contained in this amendment at §§ 273.2(e)(2), 273.7(b)(1)(vii), 273.9(b)(1)(iii), 276.2(d) and 278.1(e) are effective April 24, 1989. These provisions do not alter or change current policy or procedures under which State agency are operating or do not require special implementation efforts by State agencies.

(ii) The provision in § 273.9(b)(1)(v) which limits application of the provision to on-the-job training programs under section 204(5), Title II, of the Job Training Partnership Act is effective retroactively to April 1, 1987 and shall be implemented as follows:

(A) State agencies shall implement the provision for all new applicant households no later than June 1, 1989. Affected applicant households which applied for Program benefits during the period April 1, 1987 and the date the State agency implemented this change and were denied benefits shall be provided restored benefits, if applicable, back to April 1, 1987 or the date of the SNAP application, whichever occurs later, if the household is otherwise entitled to benefits and requests a review of its case or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed.

(B) All other households shall be converted to the provision at household request, at recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. Restored benefits shall be provided, if applicable, for such households back to April 1, 1987 or the date of the SNAP application, whichever occurs later.
