
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 315.

(109)Program changes required by Amendment No. 315 to the SNAP regulations shall be implemented as follows:

(i) The provisions relating to migrant and seasonal farmworkers (7 CFR 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(E) and 273.10(a)(1)(ii)) are effective September 1, 1988 for all households applying or certified subsequent to August 31, 1988. Changes affecting currently participating households are to be implemented at recertification or when it is necessary to implement other changes affecting the household.

(ii) State agencies were required to implement the provision of this rule regarding a technical correction concerning energy assistance payments (7 CFR 273.9(c)(11)) on September 19, 1988.

(iii) State agencies were required to implement revised SNAP allotments on October 1, 1988 (7 CFR 271.2, 271.7, 273.10(e)(2), 273.10(e)(4)(ii), and 273.12(e)). Revised allotments were implemented as mass changes in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12(e).

(iv) State agencies were required to implement the provision relating to the dependent care deduction, 7 CFR 273.9(d)(4), 273.10(d)(1)(i), and 273.10(e)(1)(i)(E), and monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting, 7 CFR 273.21(a) and (b), on October 1, 1988. These provisions were immediately effective for all households certified subsequent to September 30, 1988. Changes affecting currently participating households were to be implemented upon recertification, at the household's request, or when it was necessary to implement other changes affecting the household. (For example, a change reported by a nonmonthly reporting retrospectively budgeted household was to be implemented in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12.) The Department was not requiring State agencies to conduct a casefile review to implement monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting changes for currently participating households. Monthly reports submitted by households which became exempt from MRRB as a result of the Hunger Prevention Act, such as non-migrant seasonal farmworkers or the homeless, were to be treated as change reports and processed prospectively in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12(c).

(v) State agencies were required to implement the provisions of this rule concerning the exclusion of advance payment of earned income tax credits, 7 CFR 273.8(c)(1) and 273.9(c)(14), on January 1, 1989. Households applying subsequent to December 31, 1988 should have had this provision applied to them as of their date of application. Changes affecting households participating as of December 31, 1988 were to be implemented upon recertification, at the household's request, or when it was necessary to implement other changes affecting the household.

(vi) All other provisions of this rule, relating to technical corrections concerning the urban Alaska TFP (7 CFR 272.7(c)), Alaska proration (7 CFR 272.7(f)(3)(iii)), and the dependent care deduction (7 CFR 273.11(c)(2)(iii) and 273.12(e)(1)(i)(C)), are to be implemented August 1, 1989.
