
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 335.,Amendment No. 335

(120)The provisions contained inare effective and shall be implemented as follows:

(i) The provisions contained in §§ 271.2, 271.7, 273.1(e)(1)(iii), 273.2(k)(1)(i)(H), 273.2(m), 273.10, 273.18 and 278.1 of Amendment No. 335 are effective on February 1, 1992 and shall be implemented on that date as follows:

(A) The Guam and Virgin Islands State agencies shall communicate the two new group home provisions (§§ 271.2, 273.1(e)(1)(iii) and 278.1) to group homes in their areas by this date so that they can apply for the appropriate certification and residents can apply for SNAP benefits without delay. All State agencies shall implement the expanded group home provisions for applicants newly applying for program benefits on or after February 1, 1992 for approved group homes.

(B) No special implementation efforts are required with regard to the provisions in §§ 273.2(k)(1)(i)(H) and 273.2(m) about informing SSI applicants about SNAP and the availability of an application at the social security office.

(C) State agencies are not required to adjust their computers or train their caseworkers immediately in order to implement the provisions in §§ 271.2, 271.7, 273.10 and 273.18 relative to the minimum benefit for one- and two-person households because the methodology for annually adjusting the minimum benefit will not result in an increase in the minimum benefit for some time. However, State agencies are expected to have the capability of implementing a change in the minimum benefit in a timely manner when such a change in announced and, therefore, shall not wait until an actual change in the minimum benefit to adjust computers and train caseworkers.

(ii) The remaining provisions of Amendment No. 335 are effective February 1, 1992. The provisions which reflect that a joint application is no longer required for SSI applicants §§ 273.2 (c)(1), 273.2(i)(3)(i), and 273.2(k)(1)(i)(D) do not require implementation efforts by State agencies. The remaining provisions (§§ 273.4, 273.9(b) and 273.9(c)) also do not require special implementation efforts by State agencies as the provisions reflect current policy.

(iii) Any variance resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from quality control error analysis for 90 days from the required implementation date which shall be handled in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
