
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 328.

(119)(i) The requirements for State agencies to begin implementation or corrective action for deficiencies which are the cause for non-entitlement to enhanced funding for the Fiscal Year 1986 review period, and review periods thereafter were effective as of October 1, 1985, pursuant to section 604 of Public Law 100-435.

(ii) The requirements for State agencies to begin the implementation of corrective action for deficiencies which result in underissuances, improper denials or improper terminations of benefits to eligible households where such errors are caused by State agency rules, practices or procedures were effective July 1, 1989, pursuant to section 320 of Public Law 100-435. The corrective action must address all such deficiencies which occurred on or after July 1, 1989.

(iii) The State agency shall have until December 27, 1991, to implement changes in the development of quality control sampling plans, such that only those State agencies proposing non-proportional integrated, or other alternative sampling plan designs must:

(A) Demonstrate that the alternative design provides payment error rate estimates with equal-or-better predicted precision than would be obtained had the State agency reviewed simple random samples of the sizes specified in ยง 275.11(b)(1) of the regulations,

(B) Describe all weighting, and estimation procedures if the sample design is non-self-weighted, or uses a sampling technique other than systematic sampling,

(C) Demonstrate that self-weighting is actually achieved in sample designs claimed to be self-weighting.

(iv) The State agency shall have until January 27, 1992, to request regional arbitration of any federally subsampled underissuance cases for which the State agency received FNS regional office QC findings on or after February 22, 1988.

(v) The State agency shall have until January 27, 1992, to request national arbitration of any regional arbitration decisions involving underissuance cases for which the State agency received FNS regional arbitration findings on or after February 22, 1988.
