
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### § 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 349.,Amendment No. 349

(129)The provisions ofare effective, and shall be implemented, as follows:

(i) § 273.1(a)(2)(i)(C), § 273.1(a)(2)(i)(D) and § 273.10(f)(2) are effective as of October 1, 1987; § 273.2(i)(1) (iii) and (iv) are effective as of December 1, 1987; the new § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(G) is effective as of April 1, 1987. However, application of § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)G) in conjunction with the provisions at § 273.9 (c)(1)(ii) (A) through (F) and (c)(5)(i)(F) is effective as of the date the individual provisions at 7 CFR 273.9 (c)(1)(ii) (A) through (F) and (c)(5)(i)(F) became effective. Those dates are: § 273.9(c)(1)(ii) (A), (B), and (C), April 1, 1987; § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(D), October 20, 1987; § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(E), September 1, 1988, and § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(F), August 1, 1991. The amendment to the first sentence of § 273.9(c)(1)(iv)(B) to include a regulatory reference to 7 CFR 273.9(c)(5)(i)(F) is effective as of August 1, 1991 (the date the individual provision at 7 CFR 273.9(c)(5)(i)(F) became effective), and § 273.18(c)(2)(ii) is effective as of September 5, 1987. To the extent that these provisions represent new or different policy from that under which the State agency is currently operating, the State agency shall implement the provisions not later than April 1, 1994 for households newly applying for Program benefits on or after such implementation date. State agencies shall convert their affected current caseload to these provisions (except for § 273.18(c)(2)(ii)) at recertification, when the household requests a review of its case, or when the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed, whichever occurs first. To the extent that the provisions will result in restored benefits for affected households, such benefits shall be provided back to the effective date of the provision or the date of the household's first initial application, whichever occurs later;
