
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart P - Delegations of Authority by the Assistant Secretary for Administration
##### ยง 2.95 Executive Director, Office of Homeland Security.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(i) Coordinate the delegations and assignments made to the Department under the Defense Production Act of 1950, 50 U.S.C. App. 2061,; the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121,; and by Executive Orders 12148, "Federal Emergency Management" (3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 412), 12656, "Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities" (3 CFR, 1988 Comp., p. 585), and 13603, "National Defense Resources Preparedness" (3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 225), or any successor to these Executive Orders, to ensure that the Department has sufficient capabilities to respond to any occurrence, including natural disaster, military attack, technological emergency, or any all hazards incident.

(ii) Manage the Department Emergency Operations Center at Headquarters and the Secretary's alternative facilities; provide senior staff with international, national, and regional situational awareness reports; and provide and maintain current information systems technology and National Security Systems to support USDA executive crisis management capability.

(iii) Provide facilities and equipment to facilitate inter-agency coordination during emergencies.

(iv) Activate the USDA incident management system in accordance with the National Response Framework and the National Incident Management System in the event of a major incident; and provide oversight and coordination of the Department's Emergency Support Functions as outlined in the National Response Framework.

(v) Develop and promulgate policies for the Department regarding emergency preparedness and national security, including matters relating to anti-terrorism and agriculture-related emergency preparedness planning, both national and international, and guidance to USDA State and County Emergency Boards.

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) Provide representation and liaison for the Department in contacts with other Federal entities and organizations, including the National Security Council's functional directorates, Homeland Security Council, Office of Management and Budget, Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Department of State, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Department of Defense concerning matters of a national security, multilateral weapons conventions, natural disasters, other emergencies, and agriculture/food-related international civil emergency planning and related activities.

(viii) Act as the primary USDA representative for anti-terrorism activities and coordinates and oversees USDA's agroterrorism defense activities and programs.

(ix) [Reserved]

(x) Provide guidance and direction regarding radiological emergency preparedness programs and the implementation of the National Response Framework's Nuclear/Radiological Incident Annex to Departmental staff offices, mission areas, and agencies.

(xi) Provide program leadership and coordination for USDA's radiological emergency preparedness requirements with respect to Emergency Management and Assistance (44 CFR parts 350 through 352).

(xii) Represent USDA on the Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee (FRPCC) and Regional Assistance Committees (RACs) and assist them in carrying out their functions.

(xiii) Support USDA in its management of the Department's emergency response program with respect to radiological emergency response activities.

(xiv) [Reserved]

(11) Administer the Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) program for the Department pursuant to E.O. 13556, "Controlled Unclassified Information" (75 FR 68675, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 267) and 32 CFR part 2002.

(12) Serve as the primary point of contact for Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Office of the Inspector General (OIG) audits of USDA homeland and national security activities.
