
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 374.

(149)The Higher Education Act Amendments of 1986, as amended in 1987, were effective and required to be implemented for the 1988-89 school year; the Perkins Act was effective and required to be implemented on July 1, 1991; the Mickey Leland Act (as amended by the 1991 Technical Amendments to the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008) was effective and required to be implemented on February 1, 1992, and the exclusions contained in the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1992 for the Tribal Development Student Assistance Revolving Loan Program were effective and required to be implemented on October 1, 1992, and for Title IV and BIA student assistance on July 1, 1993. The provisions of Amendment No. 374 are effective December 16, 1996 and must be implemented by March 1, 1997. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. If implementation of the acts referenced in this paragraph or this amendment is delayed, benefits shall be restored, as appropriate, in accordance with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. Any variance resulting from implementation of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from March 1, 1997.
