
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.1 General terms and conditions.
####### Amendment No. 375.

(151)Public Law 103-66, the Mickey Leland Childhood Hunger Relief Act, was effective and required to be implemented on September 1, 1994. The provisions of Amendment No. 375 are effective December 16, 1996, and must be implemented by March 1, 1997. The State agency shall implement the provisions of this amendment no later than the appropriate required implementation date for all households newly applying for Program benefits on or after such implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first, and the State agency must provide restored benefits, as may be appropriate under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, back to the appropriate required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the appropriate implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the appropriate required implementation date or the date of application, whichever is later. Any variances resulting from implementation of this amendment shall be excluded from quality control error analysis for 120 days from March 1, 1997.
