
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.6 Nondiscrimination compliance.
####### FNS complaint requirements.

(c)(1) Complaints shall contain the following information to facilitate investigations:

(i) The name, address, and telephone number or other means of contacting the person alleging discrimination.

(ii) The location and name of the organization or office which is accused of discriminatory practices.

(iii) The nature of the incident or action or the aspect of program administration that led the person to allege discrimination.

(iv) The reason for the alleged discrimination (age, race, color, sex, handicap, religious creed, national origin, or political belief).

(v) The names, titles (if appropriate), and addresses of persons who may have knowledge of the alleged discriminatory acts.

(vi) The date or dates on which the alleged discriminatory actions occurred.

(2) If a complainant makes allegations verbally and is unable or is reluctant to put the allegations in writing, the FNS employee to whom the allegations are made shall document the complaint in writing. Every effort shall be made by the individual accepting the complaint to have the complainant provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) Complaints will be accepted by the Secretary or the Administrator, FNS, even if the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not complete. However, investigations will be conducted only if information concerning paragraphs (c)(1) (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section is provided.

(4) A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination. However, the time for filing may be extended by the Secretary.
