
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart U - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs
##### ยง 2.601 Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service.
###### et seq.,et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(2) Conduct functions of the Department relating to WTO, the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1801), the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2101), the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501), the Omnibus Trade and Competition Act of 1988 (19 U.S.C. 2901), and other legislation affecting international agricultural trade including the programs designed to reduce foreign tariffs and other trade barriers.

(3) Conduct studies of worldwide production, trade, marketing, prices, consumption, and other factors affecting exports and imports of U.S. agricultural commodities; obtain information on methods used by other countries to move farm commodities in world trade on a competitive basis for use in the development of programs of this Department; provide information to domestic producers, the agricultural trade, the public and other interests; and promote normal commercial markets abroad. This delegation excludes basic and long-range analyses of world conditions and developments affecting supply, demand, and trade in farm products and general economic analyses of the international financial and monetary aspects of agricultural affairs as assigned to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.

(4) Administer Departmental programs concerned with development of foreign markets for agricultural products of the United States except functions relating to export marketing operations under section 32, of the Act of August 23, 1935, as amended (7 U.S.C. 612c), delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, and utilization research delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.

(5) Exercise the Department's functions with respect to the International Coffee Agreement or any such future agreement.

(6) Administer functions of the Department relating to import controls including, among others, functions under section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), and section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1854) but not including those functions reserved to the Secretary under ยง 2.16(b)(2) and those relating to section 8e of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 608e-1), as assigned to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.

(7) Conduct Department activities to carry out the provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. Chapter 56).

(8) Exercise the Department's responsibilities in connection with international negotiations of the Grains Trade Convention and in the administration of such Convention.
