
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 272 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 272.15 Major changes in program design.
####### Impact of certain major changes on customer service.

(iv)Some major changes may require specific information that is not typically available from a States automated SNAP system. For example, if a State implements a major change that allowed (or required) households to report changes in their individual circumstances through a change center or allows applicants to apply or reapply for SNAP through the use of call center, the following data may be required:

(A) The total number of calls made to the center;

(B) The average time a caller has to wait to talk to a SNAP worker (includes hold time for transfers);

(C) Based upon the call centers standards and negotiation with FNS, the percentage of calls with excessive wait times;

(D) The percentage of calls abandoned by callers prior to and after being answered by the call center;

(E) The total number of calls dropped by the call center system and the number of callers that received a busy signal; and

(F) Customer satisfaction (based upon survey results).

(5) States shall submit reports containing monthly data on a quarterly basis. As practicable, and based upon consultation with the State, FNS may require any additional information under paragraph (b)(4) of this section regarding the State's operation to be reported for the quarter just prior to implementation of the major change.

(6) States shall submit reports for one year after the major change is fully in place. FNS may extend this timeframe as it deems necessary.

(7) If FNS becomes aware that a State appeared to be implementing a major change that had not been formally reported, FNS would work with the State to determine if it is a major change, and if so proceed as required by this section.

(8) If the data a State submits regarding its major change or other information FNS obtains indicates an adverse impact on SNAP access or integrity, FNS would work with the State to correct the cause of the problem and provide relevant technical assistance, and will require the State to provide additional information as it deems appropriate. Depending upon the severity of the problem, FNS may also require a formal corrective action plan as identified in ยง 275.16 and ยง 275.17 of this chapter. States agencies that fail to comply with reporting requirements may be subject to the suspension or disallowance of Federal Financial Participation administrative funds per ยง 276.4 of this chapter.
