
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart U - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs
##### ยง 2.601 Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service.
###### et seq.

(20) Carry out activities relating to the sale, reduction, or cancellation of debt, as authorized by title VI of the Agricultural Trade and Development Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1738).

(21) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture and Administrator of the Agricultural Research Service to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.

(22) Allocate the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs that have been determined by the FSA Administrator to be available for export among the various export programs.

(23) Maintain a worldwide agricultural intelligence and reporting system, including provision for foreign agricultural representation abroad to protect and promote U.S. agricultural interests and to acquire information on demand, competition, marketing, and distribution of U.S. agricultural commodities abroad pursuant to title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768).

(24) Plan and carry out programs and activities under the foreign market promotion authority of: The Wheat Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 1292 note); the Cotton Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2101-2118); the Potato Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2611-2627); the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2701-2718); the Beef Research and Information Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2901-2911); the Wheat and Wheat Foods Research and Nutrition Education Act (7 U.S.C. 3401-3417); the Floral Research and Consumer Information Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 4301-4319); subtitle B of title I of the Dairy and Tobacco Adjustment Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 4501-4514); the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act of 1984, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4601-4613); the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 4801-4819); the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4901-4916); the Pecan Promotion and Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6001-6013); the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6101-6112); the Lime Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6201-6212); the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6301-6311); the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6401-6417); the Fresh Cut Flowers and Fresh Cut Greens Promotion and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 6801-6814); the Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7101-7111); the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425); the Canola and Rapeseed Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7441-7452); the National Kiwifruit Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7461-7473); and, the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7481-7491). This authority includes determining the programs and activities to be undertaken and assuring that they are coordinated with the overall departmental programs to develop foreign markets for U.S. agricultural products.

(25) Establish and administer regulations relating to foreign travel by employees of the Department. Regulations will include, but not be limited to, obtaining and controlling passports, obtaining visas, coordinating Department of State medical clearances and imposing requirements for itineraries and contacting the Foreign Agricultural Affairs Officers upon arrival in the Officers' country(ies) of responsibility.

(26) Administer the Foreign Service personnel system for the Department in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 3922, except as otherwise delegated in ยง 2.80(a)(1), but including authority to represent the Department of Agriculture in all interagency consultations and negotiations with the other foreign affairs agencies with respect to joint regulations and authority to approve joint regulations issued by the Department of State relating to the administration of the Foreign Service.

(27) Establish and maintain U.S. Agricultural Trade Offices to develop, maintain and expand international markets for U.S. agricultural commodities in accordance with title IV of Public Law No. 95-501 (7 U.S.C. 1765a-g).

(28) Administer the programs under section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)), relating to the foreign donation of CCC stocks of agricultural commodities, except as otherwise delegated in ยง 2.42(a)(43).

(29)-(30) [Reserved]

(31) Administer programs under the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), except as otherwise delegated in ยง 2.42(a)(43).

(32) Serve as Department adviser on policies, organizational arrangements, budgets, and actions to accomplish international scientific and technical cooperation in food and agriculture.
