
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart U - Delegations of Authority by the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs
##### ยง 2.601 Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service.
###### et seq.

(33) Administer and direct the Department's programs in international development, technical assistance, and training carried out under the Foreign Assistance Act, as amended, as requested under such act (22 U.S.C. 2151).

(34) Administer and coordinate assigned Departmental programs in international research and scientific and technical cooperation with other governmental agencies, land grant universities, international organizations, international agricultural research centers, and other organizations, institutions, or individuals (7 U.S.C. 1624, 3291).

(35) Direct and coordinate the Department's participation in scientific and technical matters and exchange agreements between the United States and other countries.

(36) Direct and coordinate the Department's work with international organizations and interagency committees concerned with food and agricultural development programs (7 U.S.C. 2201 and 2202).

(37) Coordinate policy formulation for USDA international science and technology programs concerning international agricultural research centers, international organizations, and international agricultural research and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(38) Disseminate, upon request, information on subjects connected with agriculture which has been acquired by USDA agencies that may be useful to the U.S. private sector in expanding foreign markets and investment opportunities through the operation of a Department information center, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2201.

(39) Enter into contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and cost reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities (7 U.S.C. 3318, 3319a).

(40) Determine amounts reimbursable for indirect costs under international agricultural programs and agreements (7 U.S.C. 3319).

(41) Administer the Cochran Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3293).

(42) Determine quantity trigger levels and impose additional duties under the special safeguard measures in accordance with U.S. note 2 to subchapter IV of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).

(43) Implement provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 regarding adjustment assistance for farmers. (19 U.S.C. 2401-2401g).

(44) Implement section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1).

(45) Support remote sensing activities of the Department and research with satellite imagery including:

(i) Providing liaison with U.S. space programs;

(ii) Providing administrative management of the USDA Remote Sensing Archive and the transfer of satellite imagery to all USDA agencies;

(iii) Coordinating all agency satellite imagery data needs; and

(iv) Arranging for acquisition, and preparation of imagery for use to the extent of existing capabilities.

(46) Administer the International Agricultural Education Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3295).

(47) Implement section 3206 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 1726c) regarding local and regional food aid procurement projects.

(48) Administer the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3319j).

(49) Compile and make available information relating to the improvement of international food security, and provide technical assistance for the improvement of international food security to Federal, State, or local agencies; agencies or instrumentalities of the government of foreign country; domestic or international organizations; or intergovernmental organizations (7 U.S.C. 1736dd).

(50) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79:

(i) Section 12314 relating to the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 2101 note), in coordination with the Administrator, Farm Service Agency.

(ii) Section 12315 relating to the Agriculture Wool Apparel Manufacturers Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 7101 note), in coordination with the Administrator, Farm Service Agency.

(51) In consultation with the Tribal Advisory Committee and the Director of the Office of Tribal Relations, and in coordination with the Secretaries of Commerce, State, Interior, and the heads of any other relevant Federal agencies, implement section 3312 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 5608) to support greater inclusion of Tribal agricultural food products in Federal trade activities.

(b) [Reserved]
