
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### ยง 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## Operation of SNAP offices and processing of applications,Office operations.

(a)-(1)State agencies must establish procedures governing the operation of SNAP offices that the State agency determines best serve households in the State, including households with special needs, such as, but not limited to, households with elderly or disabled members, households in rural areas with low-income members, homeless individuals, households residing on reservations, households with adult members who are not proficient in English, and households with earned income (working households). The State agency must provide timely, accurate, and fair service to applicants for, and participants in, SNAP. The State agency cannot, as a condition of eligibility, impose additional application or application processing requirements, including in the implementation of a photo EBT card policy. The State agency's photo EBT card policy must not affect the certification process for purposes of determining eligibility regardless of whether an individual has his/her photo placed on the EBT card. The State agency must have a procedure for informing persons who wish to apply for SNAP benefits about the application process and their rights and responsibilities. The State agency must base SNAP eligibility solely on the criteria contained in the Act and this part.
