
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 3 - DEBT MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 3.1 Purpose and scope.

(a)(1) The regulations in this part prescribe standards and procedures for use by USDA agencies in the collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of debts owed to the United States.

(2) The regulations in this part apply to all debts of the United States subject to collection by USDA agencies, except as otherwise specified in this part or by statute.

(3) The regulations in this part do not preclude the Secretary from collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of debts as otherwise authorized by law. In such cases the laws and implementing regulations that are specifically applicable to claims collection activities of a particular agency generally will take precedence over this part.

(b) USDA agencies may issue regulations to supplement this part in order to meet the specific requirements of individual programs.

(c) The regulations of this part will not apply to:

(1) Collection of debts owed government travel card contractors by USDA employees;

(2) Collection of debts owed by individual Food Stamp Program recipients for whom debt collection procedures are provided under ยง 273.18 of this title.

(3) Collection of debts owed by foreign governments and, sovereign institutions of foreign governments.

(4) Actions pursuant to the FSA FLP Debt Settlement regulations in part 761, subpart F, of this title are authorized under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (ConAct), which are independent of the DCIA are excepted from this part.

(5) Actions pursuant to the following RD Debt Settlement regulations authorized under the ConAct and the Housing Act, which are independent of the DCIA are excepted from this part:

(i) 7 CFR part 1717, subpart Y;

(ii) 2 CFR part 175;

(iii) 7 CFR 1782.20;

(iv) 7 CFR 1951.213;

(v) 7 CFR part 1956;

(vi) 7 CFR part 3550, subpart F;

(vii) 7 CFR 3560.457; and

(viii) 7 CFR 3565.56.
