
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### ยง 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## Determining cause.

(1)The State agency shall first determine the cause of the delay using the following criteria:

(i) A delay shall be considered the fault of the household if the household has failed to complete the application process even though the State agency has taken all the action it is required to take to assist the household. The State agency must have taken the following actions before a delay can be considered the fault of the household:

(A) For households that have failed to complete the application form, the State agency must have offered, or attempted to offer, assistance in its completion.

(B) If one or more members of the household have failed to register for work, as required in ยง 273.7, the State agency must have informed the household of the need to register for work, determined if the household members are exempt from work registration, and given the household at least 10 days from the date of notification to register these members.

(C) In cases where verification is incomplete, the State agency must have provided the household with a statement of required verification and offered to assist the household in obtaining required verification and allowed the household sufficient time to provide the missing verification. Sufficient time shall be at least 10 days from the date of the State agency's initial request for the particular verification that was missing.

(D) For households that have failed to appear for an interview, the State agency must notify the household that it missed the scheduled interview and that the household is responsible for rescheduling a missed interview. If the household contacts the State agency within the 30 day processing period, the State agency must schedule a second interview. If the household fails to schedule a second interview, or the subsequent interview is postponed at the household's request or cannot otherwise be rescheduled until after the 20th day but before the 30th day following the date the application was filed, the household must appear for the interview, bring verification, and register members for work by the 30th day; otherwise, the delay shall be the fault of the household. If the household has failed to appear for the first interview, fails to schedule a second interview, and/or the subsequent interview is postponed at the household's request until after the 30th day following the date the application was filed, the delay shall be the fault of the household. If the household has missed both scheduled interviews and requests another interview, any delay shall be the fault of the household.

(ii) Delays that are the fault of the State agency include, but are not limited to, those cases where the State agency failed to take the actions described in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) (A) through (D) of this section.
