
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### § 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## all

(iv) In order to determine if a household will be eligible due to its status as a recipient PA/SSI household, the State agency may temporarily postpone, within the 30-day processing standard, the SNAP eligibility determination if the household is not entitled to expedited service and appears to be categorically eligible. However, the State agency shall postpone denying a potentially categorically eligible household until the 30th day in case the household is determined eligible to receive PA benefits. Once the PA application is approved, the household is to be considered categorically eligible if it meets all the criteria concerning categorical eligibility in § 273.2(j)(2). If the State agency can anticipate the amount and the date of receipt of the initial PA payment, but the payment will not be received until a subsequent month, the State agency shall vary the household's SNAP benefit level according to the anticipated receipt of the payment and notify the household. Portions of initial PA payments intended to retroactively cover a previous month shall be disregarded as lump sum payments under § 273.9(c)(8). If the amount or date of receipt of the initial PA payment cannot be reasonably anticipated at the time of the SNAP eligibility determination, the PA payments shall be handled as a change in circumstances. However, the State agency is not required to send a notice of adverse action if the receipt of the PA grant reduces, suspends or terminates the household's SNAP benefits, provided the household is notified in advance that its benefits may be reduced, suspended, or terminated when the grant is received. The case may be terminated if the household is not categorically eligible in accordance with § 273.12(c). The State agency shall ensure that the denied application of a potentially categorically eligible household is easily retrievable. For a household filing a joint application for SNAP benefits and PA benefits or a household that has a PA application pending and is denied SNAP benefits but is later determined eligible to receive PA benefits and is otherwise categorically eligible, the State agency shall provide benefits using the original application and any other pertinent information occurring subsequent to that application. Except for residents of public institutions who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to their release from a public institution in accordance with § 273.11(i), benefits shall be paid from the beginning of the period for which PA or SSI benefits are paid, the original SNAP application date, or December 23, 1985 whichever is later. Residents of public institutions who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to their release from the institution shall be paid benefits from the date of their release from the institution. In situations where the State agency must update and reevaluate the original application of a denied case, the State agency shall not reinterview the household, but shall use any available information to update the application. The State agency shall then contact the household by phone or mail to explain and confirm changes made by the State agency and to determine if other changes in household circumstances have occurred. If any information obtained from the household differs from that which the State agency obtained from available information or the household provided additional changes in information, the State agency shall arrange for the household or it authorized representative to initialchanges, re-sign and date the updated application and provide necessary verification. In no event can benefits be provided prior to the date of the original SNAP application filed on or after December 23, 1985. Any household that is determined to be eligible to receive PA benefits for a period of time within the 30-day SNAP processing time, shall be provided SNAP benefits back to the date of the SNAP application. However, in no event shall SNAP benefits be paid for a month for which such household is ineligible for receipt of any PA benefits for the month, unless the household is eligible for SNAP benefits and an NPA case. Benefits shall be prorated in accordance with § 273.10(a)(1)(ii) and (e)(2)(ii)(B). Household that file joint applications that are found categorically eligible after being denied NPA SNAP benefits shall have their benefits for the initial month prorated from the date from which the PA benefits are payable, or the date of the original SNAP application, whichever is later. The State agency shall act on reevaluating the original application either at the household's request or when it becomes otherwise aware of the household's PA and/or SSI eligibility. The household shall be informed on the notice of denial required by § 273.10(g)(1)(ii) to notify the State agency if its PA or SSI benefits are approved.

(v) The State agency may not require households which file a joint PA/SNAP application and whose PA applications are denied to file new SNAP applications. Rather, the State agency must determine or continue their SNAP eligibility on the basis of the original applications filed jointly for PA and SNAP purposes. In addition, the State agency must use any other documented information obtained subsequent to the application which may have been used in the PA determination and which is relevant to SNAP eligibility or level of benefits.
