
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### ยง 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## Applicant PA households.

(1)(i) If a joint PA/SNAP application is used, the application may contain all the information necessary to determine a household's SNAP eligibility and level of benefits. Information relevant only to SNAP eligibility must be contained in the PA form or must be an attachment to it. The joint PA/SNAP application must clearly indicate that the household is providing information for both programs, is subject to the criminal penalties of both programs for making false statements, and waives the notice of adverse action as specified in paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section.

(ii) The State agency may conduct a single interview at initial application for both public assistance and SNAP purposes. A household's eligibility for SNAP out-of-office interview provisions in paragraph (e)(2) of this section does not relieve the household of any responsibility for a face-to-face interview to be certified for PA.

(iii) For households applying for both PA and SNAP benefits, the State agency must follow the verification procedures described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section for those factors of eligibility which are needed solely for purposes of determining the household's eligibility for SNAP benefits. For those factors of eligibility which are needed to determine both PA eligibility and SNAP eligibility, the State agency may use the PA verification rules. However, if the household has provided the State agency sufficient verification to meet the verification requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section, but has failed to provide sufficient verification to meet the PA verification rules, the State agency may not use such failure as a basis for denying the household's SNAP application or failing to comply with processing requirements of paragraph (g) of this section. Under these circumstances, the State agency must process the household's SNAP application and determine eligibility based on its compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section.
