
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### § 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## SSI households.

(k)For purposes of this paragraph, SSI is defined as Federal SSI payments made under title XVI of the Social Security Act, federally administered optional supplementary payments under section 1616 of that Act, or federally administered mandatory supplementary payments made under section 212(a) of Pub. L. 93-66. Except in cashout States (§ 273.20), households which have not applied for SNAP benefits in the thirty preceding days, and which do not have applications pending, may apply and be certified for SNAP benefits in accordance with the procedures described in § 273.2(k)(1)(i) or § 273.2(k)(1)(ii) and with the notice, procedural and timeliness requirements of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and its implementing regulations. Households applying simultaneously for SSI and SNAP benefits shall be subject to SNAP eligibility criteria, and benefit levels shall be based solely on SNAP eligibility criteria until the household is considered categorically eligible. However, households in which all members are either PA or SSI recipients or authorized to receive PA or SSI benefits (as discussed in § 273.2(j)) shall be SNAP eligible based on their PA/SSI status as provided for in § 273.2(j)(1)(iv) and (j)(2). Households denied NPA SNAP benefits that have an SSI application pending shall be informed on the notice of denial of the possibility of categorical eligibility if they become SSI recipients. The State agency shall make an eligibility determination based on information provided by SSA or by the household.
