
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### § 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## 2

() Its right to apply at a SNAP office if it chooses to do so.

(B) The SSA will accept and complete SNAP applications received at the SSA Office from SSI households and forward them, within one working day after receipt of a signed application, to a designated office of the State agency. SSA shall also forward to the State agency a transmittal form which will be approved by SSA and FNS. The SSA will use the national SNAP application form for joint processing. State agencies may substitute a State SNAP application, provided that prior approval is received from both FNS and SSA. SSA shall approve, deny, or comment upon FNS-approved State SNAP applications within thirty days of their submission to SSA.

(C) SSA will accept and complete SNAP applications from SSI households received by SSA staff in contact stations. SSA will forward all SNAP applications from SSI households to the designated SNAP office.

(D) The SSA staff shall complete joint SSI and SNAP applications for residents of public institutions in accordance with § 273.11(i).

(E) The State agency shall designate an address for the SSA to forward SNAP applications and accompanying information to the State agency for eligibility determination. Applications and accompanying information must be forwarded to the agreed upon address in accordance with the time standards contained in § 273.2(k)(1)(i)(B).

(F) Except for applications taken in accordance with paragraph (k)(1)(i)(D) of this section, the State agency shall make an eligibility determination and issue SNAP benefits to eligible SSI households within 30 days following the date the application was received by the SSA. Applications shall be considered filed for normal processing purposes when the signed application is received by SSA. The expedited processing time standards shall begin on the date the State agency receives a SNAP application. The State agency shall make an eligibility determination and issue SNAP benefits to a resident of a public institution who applies jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits within 30 days following the date of the applicant's release from the institution. Expedited processing time standards for an applicant who has applied for SNAP benefits and SSI prior to release shall also begin on the date of the applicant's release from the institution in accordance with § 273.2 (i)(3)(i). SSA shall notify the State agency of the date of release of the applicant from the institution. If, for any reason, the State agency is not notified on a timely basis of the applicant's release date, the State agency shall restore benefits in accordance with § 273.17 to such applicant back to the date of release. SNAP applications and supporting documentation sent to an incorrect SNAP office shall be sent to the correct office, by the State agency, within one working day of their receipt in accordance with § 273.2(c)(2)(ii).

(G) Households in which all members are applying for or participating in SSI will not be required to see a State eligibility worker, or otherwise be subjected to an additional State interview. The SNAP application will be processed by the State agency. The State agency shall not contact the household further in order to obtain information for certification for SNAP benefits unless: the application is improperly completed; mandatory verification required by § 273.2(f)(1) is missing; or, the State agency determines that certain information on the application is questionable. In no event would the applicant be required to appear at the SNAP office to finalize the eligibility determination. Further contact made in accordance with this paragraph shall not constitute a second SNAP certification interview.

(H) SSA shall refer non-SSI households to the correct SNAP office. The State agencies shall process those applications in accordance with the procedures noted in § 273.2. Applications from such households shall be considered filed on the date the signed application is taken at the correct State agency office, and the normal and expedited processing time standards shall begin on that date.

(I) The SSA shall prescreen all applications for entitlement to expedited services on the day the application is received at the SSA office and shall mark "Expedited Processing" on the first page of all households' applications that appear to be entitled to such processing. The SSA will inform households which appear to meet the criteria for expedited service that benefits may be issued a few days sooner if the household applies directly at the SNAP office. The household may take the application from SSA to the SNAP office for screening, an interview, and processing of the application. This provision does not apply to applications described in paragraph (k)(1)(i)(D) of this section.

(J) The State agency shall prescreen all applications received from the SSA for entitlement to expedited service on the day the application is received at the correct SNAP office. All SSI households entitled to expedited service shall be certified in accordance with § 273.2(i) except that the expedited processing time standard shall begin on the date the application is received at the correct State agency office, unless the applicant is a resident of a public institution as described in § 273.11(i).

(K) The State agency shall develop and implement a method to determine if members of SSI households whose applications are forwarded by the SSA are already participating in SNAP directly through the State agency.

(L) If SSA takes an SSI application or redetermination on the telephone from a member of a pure SSI household, a SNAP application shall also be completed during the telephone interview. In these cases, the SNAP application shall be mailed to the claimant for signature for return to the SSA office or to the State agency. SSA shall then forward any SNAP applications it receives to the State agency. The State agency may not require the household to be interviewed again in the SNAP office. The State agency shall not contact the household further in order to obtain information for certification for SNAP benefits except in accordance with § 273.2(k)(1)(i)(F).

(M) To SSI recipients redetermined for SSI by mail, the SSA shall send a stuffer informing them of their right to file a SNAP application at the SSA office (if they are members of a pure SSI household) or at their local SNAP office, and their right to an out-of-office SNAP interview to be performed by the State agency if the household is unable to appoint an authorized representative.

(N) Section 272.4 bilingual requirements shall not apply to the Social Security Administration.

(O) State agencies shall provide and SSA shall distribute an information sheet or brochure to all households processed under this paragraph. This material shall inform the household of the following: The address and telephone number of the household's correct SNAP office, the remaining actions to be taken in the application process, and a statement that a household should be notified of the SNAP determinations within thirty days and can contact the SNAP office if it receives no notification within thirty days, or has other questions or problems. It shall also include the client's rights and responsibilities (including fair hearings, authorized representatives, out-of-office interviews, reporting changes and timely reapplication), information on how and where to obtain an EBT card and PIN and how to use an EBT card and PIN (including the commodities clients may purchase with SNAP benefits.

(P) As part of the SSA-State agency joint SNAP processing agreement, States may negotiate, on behalf of project areas, to have SSA provide initial eligibility and payment data where the local area is unable to access accurate and timely data through the State's SDX. However, in negotiating such agreements, SSA may challenge a State's determination that it does not have the computer capability to use SDX data. If SSA, FNS, and the State are unable to resolve this matter, and SSA determines that a State does have the capability to provide accurate and timely SDX data to the SNAP project area, SSA is not required to provide alternate means of transmitting initial SSI eligibility and payment data.

(ii) If the State agency chooses to outstation eligibility workers at SSA offices, with SSA's concurrence, the following actions shall be completed.

(A) SSA will provide adequate space for State SNAP eligibility workers in SSA offices.

(B) The State agency shall have at least one outstationed worker on duty at all time periods during which households will be referred for SNAP application processing. In most cases this would require the availability of an outstationed worker throughout normal SSA business hours.

(C) The following households shall be entitled to file SNAP applications with, and be interviewed by an outstationed eligibility worker:
