
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart A - General Rules
####### ยง 273.2 Office operations and application processing.
######## 2

() Households which do not have an applicant for or recipient of SSI, but which contain an applicant for or recipient of benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, if the State agency and SSA have an agreement to allow the processing of such households at SSA offices.

(D) Households shall be interviewed for SNAP benefits on the day of application unless there is insufficient time to conduct an interview. The State agency shall arrange for the outstationed worker to interview applicants as soon as possible.

(E) The State agency shall not refuse to provide service to persons served by the SSA office because they do not reside in the county or project area in which the SSA office is located, provided, however, that they reside within the jurisdictions served by the SSA office and the State agency. The State agency is not required to process the applications of persons who are not residing within the SSA office jurisdiction but who do reside within the State agency's jurisdiction, other than to forward the forms to the correct SNAP offices.

(F) The State agency may permit the eligibility worker outstationed at the SSA to determine the eligibility of households, or may require that completed applications be forwarded elsewhere for the eligibility determination.

(G) Applications from households entitled to joint processing through an outstationed eligibility worker shall be considered filed on the date they are submitted to that worker. Both the normal and expedited service time standards shall begin on that date.

(H) Households not entitled to joint processing shall be entitled to obtain and submit applications at the SSA office. The outstationed eligibility worker need not process these applications except to forward them to the correct SNAP office where they shall be considered filed upon receipt (any activities beyond acceptance and referral of the application would require SSA concurrence). Both the normal and expedited service time standards shall begin on that date.

(iii) Regardless of whether the State agency or SSA conducts the SNAP interview, the following actions shall be taken:
