
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart C - Education and Employment
####### ยง 273.6 Social security numbers.
######## Obtaining SSNs for SNAP household members.

(b)(1) For those individuals who provide SSNs prior to certification, recertification or at any office contact, the State agency shall record the SSN and verify it in accordance with ยง 273.2(f)(1)(v).

(2) For those individuals who do not have an SSN, the State agency shall:

(i) If an enumeration agreement with SSA exists, complete the application for an SSN, Form SS-5. To complete Form SS-5, the State agency must document the verification of identity, age, and citizenship or alien status as required by SSA and forward the SS-5 to SSA.

(ii) If no enumeration agreement exists, an individual must apply at the SSA, and the State agency shall arrange with SSA to be notified directly of the SSN when it is issued. The State agency shall inform the household where to apply and what information will be needed, including any which may be needed for SSA to notify the State agency of the SSN. The State agency shall advise the household member that proof of application from SSA will be required prior to certification. SSA normally uses the Receipt of Application for a Social Security Number, Form SSA-5028, as evidence that an individual has applied for an SSN. State agencies may also use their own documents for this purpose.

(3) The State agency shall follow the procedures described in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section for individuals who do not know if they have an SSN, or are unable to find their SSN.

(4) If the household is unable to provide proof of application for an SSN for a newborn, the household must provide the SSN or proof of application at its next recertification or within 6 months following the month the baby is born, whichever is later. If the household is unable to provide an SSN or proof of application for an SSN at its next recertification within 6 months following the baby's birth, the State agency shall determine if the good cause provisions of paragraph (d) of this section are applicable.
