
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart D - Eligibility and Benefit Levels
####### ยง 273.11 Action on households with special circumstances.
######## Treatment of income and resources of other nonhousehold members.

(d)(1) For all other nonhousehold members defined in ยง 273.1 (b)(1) and (b)(2) who are not specifically mentioned in paragraph (c) of this section, the income and resources of such individuals shall not be considered available to the household with whom the individual resides. Cash payments from the nonhousehold member to the household will be considered income under the normal income standards set in ยง 273.9(b). Vendor payments, as defined in ยง 273.9(c)(1), shall be excluded as income. If the household shares deductible expenses with the nonhousehold member, only the amount actually paid or contributed by the household shall be deducted as a household expense. If the payments or contributions cannot be differentiated, the expenses shall be prorated evenly among persons actually paying or contributing to the expense and only the household's pro rata share deducted.

(2) When the earned income of one or more household members and the earned income of a nonhousehold member are combined into one wage, the income of the household members shall be determined as follows:

(i) If the household's share can be identified, the State agency shall count that portion due to the household as earned income.

(ii) If the household's share cannot be identified the State agency shall prorate the earned income among all those whom it was intended to cover and count that prorated portion to the household.

(3) Such nonhousehold members shall not be included when determining the size of the household for the purposes of:

(i) Assigning a benefit level to the household;

(ii) Comparing the household's monthly income with the income eligibility standards; or

(iii) Comparing the household's resources with the resource eligibility limits.
