
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart D - Eligibility and Benefit Levels
####### § 273.11 Action on households with special circumstances.
######## Shelters for battered women and children.

(g)(1) Prior to certifying its residents under this paragraph, the State agency shall determine that the shelter for battered women and children meets the definition in § 271.2 and document the basis of this determination. Shelters having FNS authorization to redeem at wholesalers shall be considered as meeting the definition and the State agency is not required to make any further determination. The State agency may choose to require local project area offices to maintain a list of shelters meeting the definition to facilitate prompt certification of eligible residents following the special procedures outlined below.

(2) Many shelter residents have recently left a household containing the person who has abused them. Their former household may be certified for participation in the Program, and its certification may be based on a household size that includes the women and children who have just left. Shelter residents who are included in such certified households may nevertheless apply for and (if otherwise eligible) participate in the Program as separate households if such certified household which includes them is the household containing the person who subjected them to abuse. Shelter residents who are included in such certified households may receive an additional allotment as a separate household only once a month.

(3) Shelter residents who apply as separate households shall be certified solely on the basis of their income and resources and the expenses for which they are responsible. They shall be certified without regard to the income, resources, and expenses of their former household. Jointly held resources shall be considered inaccessible in accordance with § 273.8. Room payments to the shelter shall be considered as shelter expenses.

(4) Any shelter residents eligible for expedited service shall be handled in accordance with § 273.2(i).

(5) State agencies must take prompt action to ensure that the former household's eligibility or allotment reflects the change in the household's composition. Such action must include acting on the reported change in accordance with § 273.12 or § 273.21, as appropriate, by issuing a notice of adverse action in accordance with § 273.13.
