
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart D - Eligibility and Benefit Levels
####### § 273.11 Action on households with special circumstances.
######## et seq.,

(2)(i) Prior to certifying any residents for SNAP, the State agency must verify that the DAA treatment center is authorized by FNS as a retailer in accordance with § 278.1(e) of this chapter or that it comes under part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300x(as defined in "Drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation program" in § 271.2 of this chapter).

(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(2), the State agency must certify residents of DAA treatment centers by using the same provisions that apply to all other households, including, but not limited to, the same rights to notices of adverse action and fair hearings.

(iii) The DAA treatment center must notify the State agency of changes in the household's circumstances as provided in § 273.12(a).

(3) The DAA treatment center must provide the State agency a list of currently participating residents that includes a statement signed by a responsible center official attesting to the validity of the list. The State agency must require submission of the list on either a monthly or semimonthly basis. In addition, the State agency must conduct periodic random on-site visits to the center to assure the accuracy of the list and that the State agency's records are consistent and up to date.

(4) The State agency may issue allotments on a semimonthly basis to households in DAA treatment centers.

(5) DAA treatment centers may redeem benefits in various ways depending on the State's EBT system design. The designs may include DAA treatment center use of individual household EBT cards at authorized stores, authorization of DAA treatment centers as retailers with EBT access via POS at the center, DAA treatment center use of a center EBT card that is an aggregate of individual household benefits, and other designs. Regardless of the process elected, the State must ensure that the EBT design or DAA treatment center procedures prohibit the DAA treatment center from obtaining more than one-half of the household's allotment prior to the 16th of the month or permit the return of benefits to the household's EBT account through a refund, transfer, or other means. Guidelines for approval of EBT systems are contained in part 274 of this chapter.

(6) When a household leaves the DAA treatment center, the center must perform the following:

(i) Notify the State agency. If possible, the center must provide the household with a change report form to report to the State agency the household's new address and other circumstances after leaving the center and must advise the household to return the form to the appropriate office of the State agency within 10 days. After the household leaves the DAA treatment center, the center can no longer act as the household's authorized representative for certification purposes or for obtaining or using benefits.

(ii) Provide the household with its EBT card if it was in the possession of the DAA treatment center. The DAA treatment center must return to the State agency any EBT card not provided to departing residents by the end of each month.

(iii) If no benefits have been spent on behalf of the individual household, the center must return the full value of any benefits already debited from the household's current monthly allotment back into the household's EBT account at the time the household leaves the center.

(iv) If the benefits have already been debited from the EBT account and any portion spent on behalf of the household, the following procedures must be followed.

(A) If the household leaves prior to the 16th day of the month, the center must ensure that the household has one-half of its monthly benefit allotment remaining in its EBT account unless the State agency issues semi-monthly allotments and the second half has not been posted yet.

(B) If the household leaves on or after the 16th day of the month, the State agency, at its option, may require the center to give the household a portion of its allotment. If the center is authorized as a retailer, the State agency may require the center to provide a refund for that amount back to the household's EBT account at the time that the household leaves the center. Under an EBT system where the center has an aggregate EBT card, the State agency may, but is not required to, transfer a portion of the household's monthly allotment from a center's EBT account back to the household's EBT account. In either case, the household, not the center, must be allowed to have sole access to any benefits remaining in the household's EBT account at the time the household leaves the center.

(v) If the household has already left the DAA treatment center, and as a result, the DAA treatment center is unable to return the benefits in accordance with this paragraph (e)(6), the DAA treatment center must advise the State agency, and the State agency must effect the return instead. These procedures are applicable at any time during the month.

(7) The organization or institution shall be responsible for any misrepresentation or intentional Program violation which it knowingly commits in the certification of center residents. As an authorized representative, the organization or institution must be knowledgeable about household circumstances and should carefully review those circumstances with residents prior to applying on their behalf. The DAA treatment center shall be strictly liable for all losses or misuse of benefits and/or EBT cards held on behalf of resident households and for all overissuances which occur while the households are residents of the DAA treatment center.

(8) The organization or institution authorized by FNS as a retail food store may be penalized or disqualified, as described in § 278.6, if it is determined administratively or judicially that coupons were misappropriated or used for purchases that did not contribute to a certified household's meals. The State agency shall promptly notify FNS when it has reason to believe that a DAA treatment center is misusing benefits and/or EBT cards in its possession. However, the State agency shall take no action prior to FNS action against the organization or institution. The State agency shall establish a claim for overissuances of benefits held on behalf of resident clients as stipulated in paragraph (e)(7) of this section if any overissuances are discovered during an investigation or hearing procedure for redemption violations. If FNS disqualifies an organization or institution as an authorized retail food store, the State agency shall suspend its authorized representative status for the same period.
