
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart D - Eligibility and Benefit Levels
####### § 273.11 Action on households with special circumstances.
######## Residents of a group living arrangement.

(f)(1) Disabled or blind residents of a group living arrangement (GLA) (as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter) may apply either through use of an authorized representative employed and designated by the group living arrangement or on their own behalf or through an authorized representative of their choice. The GLA must determine if a resident may apply on his or her own behalf based on the resident's physical and mental ability to handle his or her own affairs. Some residents of the GLA may apply on their own behalf while other residents of the same GLA may apply through the GLA's representative. Prior to certifying any residents, the State agency must verify that the GLA is authorized by FNS or is certified by the appropriate agency of the State (as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter) including the agency's determination that the center is a nonprofit organization.

(i) If the residents apply on their own behalf, the household size must be in accordance with the definition in § 273.1. The State agency must certify these residents using the same provisions that apply to all other households. If FNS disqualifies the GLA as an authorized retail food store, the State agency must suspend its authorized representative status for the same time; but residents applying on their own behalf will still be able to participate if otherwise eligible.

(ii) If the residents apply through the use of the GLA's authorized representative, their eligibility must be determined as a one-person household.

(2) Each group living arrangement shall provide the State agency with a list of currently participating residents. This list shall include a statement signed by a responsible center official attesting to the validity of the list. The State shall require the list on a periodic basis. In addition, the State agency shall conduct periodic random onsite visits to assure the accuracy of the list and that the State agency's records are consistent and up to date.

(3) The same provisions applicable in § 273.11(e)(3) to residents of treatment centers also apply to blind or disabled residents of group living arrangements when the facility acts as the resident's authorized representative.

(4) If the resident has made application on his/her own behalf, the household is responsible for reporting changes to the State agency as provided in § 273.12(a). If the GLA is acting in the capacity of an authorized representative, the GLA shall notify the State agency, as provided in § 273.12(a), of changes in the household's income or other household circumstances and when the household leaves the GLA.

(5) When the household leaves the facility, the GLA, either acting as an authorized representative or retaining use of the EBT card and benefits on behalf of the residents (regardless of the method of application), shall return the EBT card (if applicable) to the household. The household, not the GLA, shall have sole access to any benefits remaining in the household's EBT account at the time the household leaves the facility. The State agency must ensure that the EBT design or procedures for GLAs permit the GLA to return unused benefits to the household through a refund, transfer, or other means.

(6) If, at the time the household leaves, no benefits have been spent on behalf of that individual household, the facility must return the full value of any benefits already debited from the household's current monthly allotment back into the household's EBT account. These procedures are applicable at any time during the month. However, if the facility has already debited benefits and spent any portion of them on behalf of the individual, the facility shall do the following:

(i) If the household leaves the GLA prior to the 16th day of the month, the facility shall provide the household with its EBT card (if applicable) and one-half of its monthly benefit allotment. Where a group of residents has been certified as one household and a member of the household leaves the center:

(A) The facility shall return a pro rata share of one-half of the household's benefit allotment to the EBT account and advise the State agency that the individual is entitled to that pro rata share; and

(B) The State agency shall create a new EBT account for the individual, issue a new EBT card and transfer the pro rata share from the original household's EBT account to the departing individual's EBT account. The facility will instruct the individual on how to obtain the new EBT card based on the State agency's card issuance procedures.

(ii) If the household or an individual member of the group household leaves on or after the 16th day of the month and the benefits have already been debited and used, the household or individual does not receive any benefits.

(iii) The GLA shall return to the State agency any EBT cards not provided to departing residents at the end of each month. Also, if the household has already left the facility and as a result, the facility is unable to perform the refund or transfer in accordance with this paragraph (f)(5), the facility must advise the State agency, and the State agency must effect the return or transfer instead.

(iv) Once the resident leaves, the GLA no longer acts as his/her authorized representative. The GLA, if possible, shall provide the household with a change report form to report to the State agency the individual's new address and other circumstances after leaving the GLA and shall advise the household to return the form to the appropriate office of the State agency within 10 days.

(7) The same provisions applicable to DAA treatment centers in paragraphs (e)(7) and (8) of this section also apply to GLAs when acting as an authorized representative. These provisions, however, are not applicable if a resident has applied on his/her own behalf. The resident applying on his/her own behalf shall be responsible for overissuances as would any other household as discussed in § 273.18.

(8) If the residents are certified on their own behalf, the benefits may either be debited by the GLA to be used to purchase meals served either communally or individually to eligible residents or retained by the residents and used to purchase and prepare food for their own consumption. The GLA may purchase and prepare food to be consumed by eligible residents on a group basis if residents normally obtain their meals at a central location as part of the GLA's service or if meals are prepared at a central location for delivery to the individual residents. If personalized meals are prepared and paid for with SNAP, the GLA must ensure that the resident's SNAP benefits are used for meals intended for that resident.
