
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart D - Eligibility and Benefit Levels
####### ยง 273.11 Action on households with special circumstances.
######## Response time.

(4)The State agency shall give the law enforcement agency 20 days to respond to a request for information about the conditions of a felony warrant or a probation or parole violation, and whether the law enforcement agency intends to actively pursue the individual. If the law enforcement agency does not indicate that it intends to enforce the felony warrant or arrest the individual for the probation or parole violation within 30 days of the date of the State agency's request for information about the warrant, the State agency shall determine that the individual is not a fleeing felon or a probation or parole violator and document the household's case file accordingly. If the law enforcement agency indicates that it does intend to enforce the felony warrant or arrest the individual for the probation or parole violation within 30 days of the date of the State agency's request for information, the State agency will postpone taking any action on the case until the 30-day period has expired. Once the 30-day period has expired, the State agency shall verify with the law enforcement agency whether it has attempted to execute the felony warrant or arrest the probation or parole violator. If it has, the State agency shall take appropriate action to deny an applicant or terminate a participant who has been determined to be a fleeing felon or a probation or parole violator. If the law enforcement agency has not taken any action within 30 days, the State agency shall not consider the individual a fleeing felon or probation or parole violator, shall document the case file accordingly, and take no further action.
