
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### § 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## 2

() A change in the amount earned of more than $100 a month from the amount last used to calculate the household's allotment, provided that the household is certified for no more than 6 months.

(D) Beginning FY 2018, and for every fiscal year thereafter, the dollar amounts in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (C) of this section shall be adjusted and rounded to the nearest $25 to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index for the All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor (for the 12-month period ending the preceding June).

(ii) All changes in household composition, such as the addition or loss of a household member.

(iii) Changes in residence and the resulting change in shelter costs.

(iv) Acquisition of a licensed vehicle that is not fully excludable under § 273.8.

(v) A change in liquid resources, such as cash, stocks, bonds, and bank accounts that reach or exceed the resource limits as described in § 273.8(b) for elderly or disabled households and for all other households, unless these assets are excluded under § 273.8.

(vi) Changes in the legal obligation to pay child support. However, the State agency may remove this reporting requirement if it has chosen to use information provided by the State's CSE agency in determining a household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of its obligation, and amounts the household has actually paid in accordance with § 273.2(f)(1)(xii).

(vii) For able-bodied adults subject to the time limit of § 273.24, any changes in work hours that bring an individual below 20 hours per week, averaged monthly, as defined in § 273.24(a)(1)(i). An individual shall report this information in accordance with the reporting system for income to which he is subject.

(viii) Whenever a member of the household wins substantial lottery or gambling winnings in accordance with § 273.11(r).

(2) Certified households must report changes within 10 days of the date the change becomes known to the household, or at the State agency's option, the household must report changes within 10 days of the end of the month in which the change occurred. For reportable changes of income, the State agency shall require that change to be reported within 10 days of the date that the household receives the first payment attributable to the change. For households subject to simplified reporting, the household must report changes no later than 10 days from the end of the calendar month in which the change occurred, provided that the household receives the payment with at least 10 days remaining in the month. If there are not 10 days remaining in the month, the household must report within 10 days from receipt of the payment. Optional procedures for reporting changes are contained in paragraph (f) of this section for households in States with forms for jointly reporting SNAP and public assistance changes and SNAP and general assistance changes

(3) An applying household shall report all changes related to its SNAP eligibility and benefits at the certification interview. Changes, as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, which occur after the interview but before the date of the notice of eligibility, shall be reported by the household within 10 days of the date of the notice.

(4) The State agency may establish a system of quarterly reporting in lieu of the change reporting requirements specified under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The following requirements are applicable to quarterly reporting systems:
