
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### ยง 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## 4

() The consequences of failing to file a report.

(C) Special assistance in completing and filing periodic reports to households whose adult members are all either mentally or physically handicapped or are non-English speaking or otherwise lacking in reading and writing skills such that they cannot complete and file the required report; and

(D) A telephone number (toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted outside the local calling area) which the household may call to ask questions or to obtain help in completing the periodic report.

(iii) Periodic report. (A) Exempt households. The State agency must not require the submission of periodic reports by households certified for 12 months or less in which all adult members are elderly or have a disability with no earned income.

(B) Submission of periodic reports by non-exempt households. Households that are certified for longer than 6 months, except those households described in ยง 273.12(a)(5)(iii)(A), must file a periodic report between 4 months and 6 months, as required by the State agency. Households in which all adult members are elderly or have a disability with no earned income and are certified for periods lasting between 13 months and 24 months must file a periodic report once a year. In selecting a due date for the periodic report, the State agency must provide itself sufficient time to process reports so that households that have reported changes that will reduce or terminate benefits will receive adequate notice of action on the report in the first month of the new reporting period.

(C) The periodic report form must request from the household information on any changes in circumstances in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(vii) of this section and conform to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(D) If the household files a complete report resulting in reduction or termination of benefits, the State agency shall send an adequate notice, as defined in ยง 271.2 of this chapter. The notice must be issued so that the household will receive it no later than the time that its benefits are normally received. If the household fails to provide sufficient information or verification regarding a deductible expense, the State agency will not terminate the household, but will instead determine the household's benefits without regard to the deduction.

(E) If a household fails to file a complete report by the specified filing date, the State agency shall provide the household with a reminder notice advising the household that it has 10 days from the date the State agency mails the notice to file a complete report. If an eligible household files a complete periodic report during this 10 day period, the State agency shall provide it with an opportunity to participate no later than ten days after its normal issuance date If the household does not respond to the reminder notice, the household's participation shall be terminated and the State agency must send an adequate notice of termination described in paragraph (a)(5)(iii)(C) of this section.

(F) If an eligible household that has been terminated for failure to file a complete report files a complete report after its extended filing date under (E), but before the end of the issuance month, the State agency may choose to reinstate the household. If the household has requested a fair hearing on the basis that a complete periodic report was filed, but the State does not have it, the State agency shall reinstate the household if a completed periodic report is filed before the end of the issuance month.

(G) The periodic report form shall be the sole reporting requirement for any information that is required to be reported on the form, except that a household required to report less frequently than quarterly shall report:
