
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### § 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## State plan requirement.

(vii)A State agency that chooses to use simplified reporting procedures in accordance with this section must state in its State plan of operation that it has implemented simplified reporting and specify the types of households to whom the reporting requirement applies.

(6) For households eligible for the child support exclusion at § 273.9(c)(17) or deduction at § 273.9(d)(5), the State agency may use information provided by the State CSE agency in determining the household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of its obligation and amounts the household has actually paid if the household pays its child support exclusively through its State CSE agency and has signed a statement authorizing release of its child support payment records to the State agency. A household would not have to provide any additional verification unless they disagreed with the information provided by the State CSE agency. State agencies that choose to utilize information provided by their State CSE agency in accordance with this paragraph (a)(6) must specify in their State plan of operation that they have selected this option. If the State agency chooses not to utilize information provided by its State CSE agency, the State agency may make reporting child support payments an optional change reporting item in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section.The State agency shall process the reports in accordance with procedures for the systems used in budgeting the household's income and deductions. The following requirements apply to quarterly reports:

(i) The State agency shall provide the household a reasonable period after the end of the last month covered by the report in which to return the report. If the household does not file the report by the due date or files an incomplete report, the State agency shall provide the household with a reminder notice advising the household that it has 10 days from the date the State agency mails the notice to file a complete report. If the household does not file a complete report by the extended filing date as specified in the reminder notice, the State agency shall determine the household's eligibility and benefits without consideration of the child support deduction. The State agency shall not terminate the benefits of a household for failure to submit a quarterly report unless the household is otherwise ineligible. The State agency shall send the household an adequate notice as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter if the household fails to submit a complete report or if the information contained on a complete report results in a reduction or termination of benefits. The quarterly report shall meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The State agency may combine the content of the reminder notice and the adequate notice as long as the notice meets the requirements of the individual notices.

(ii) The quarterly report form, if required, shall be the sole reporting requirement for reporting child support payments during the certification period. Households excluded from monthly reporting as specified in § 273.21(b) and households required to submit monthly reports shall not be required to submit quarterly reports.

(7) State agencies shall not impose any SNAP reporting requirements on households except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
