
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### ยง 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## State agency action on changes.

(c)The State agency shall take prompt action on all changes to determine if the change affects the household's eligibility or allotment. However, the State agency has the option to disregard a reported change to an established deduction in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If a household reports a change in income, and the new circumstance is expected to continue for at least one month beyond the month in which the change is reported, the State agency may act on the change in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The time frames in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section apply to these actions. During the certification period, the State agency shall not act on changes in the medical expenses of households eligible for the medical expense deduction which it learns of from a source other than the household and which, in order to take action, require the State agency to contact the household for verification. The State agency shall only act on those changes in medical expenses that it learns about from a source other than the household if those changes are verified upon receipt and do not necessitate contact with the household. Even if there is no change in the allotment, the State agency shall document the reported change in the casefile, provide another change report form to the household, and notify the household of the receipt of the change report. If the reported change affects the household's eligibility or level of benefits, the adjustment shall also be reported to the household. The State agency shall also advise the household of additional verification requirements, if any, and state that failure to provide verification shall result in increased benefits reverting to the original allotment. The State agency shall document the date a change is reported, which shall be the date the State agency receives a report form or is advised of the change over the telephone or by a personal visit. Restoration of lost benefits shall be provided to any household if the State agency fails to take action on a change which increases benefits within the time limits specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
