
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### § 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## Increase in benefits.

(1)(i) For changes which result in an increase in a household's benefits, other than changes described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency shall make the change effective no later than the first allotment issued 10 days after the date the change was reported to the State agency. For example, a $30 decrease in income reported on the 15th of May would increase the household's June allotment. If the same decrease were reported on May 28, and the household's normal issuance cycle was on June 1, the household's allotment would have to be increased by July.

(ii) For changes which result in an increase in a household's benefits due to the addition of a new household member who is not a member of another certified household, or due to a decrease of $50 or more in the household's gross monthly income, the State agency shall make the change effective not later than the first allotment issued 10 days after the date the change was reported. However, in no event shall these changes take effect any later than the month following the month in which the change is reported. Therefore, if the change is reported after the 20th of a month and it is too late for the State agency to adjust the following month's allotment, the State agency shall issue a supplementary ATP or otherwise provide an opportunity for the household to obtain the increase in benefits by the 10th day of the following month, or the household's normal issuance cycle in that month, whichever is later. For example, a household reporting a $100 decrease in income at any time during May would have its June allotment increased. If the household reported the change after the 20th of May and it was too late for the State agency to adjust the ATP normally issued on June 1, the State agency would issue a supplementary ATP for the amount of the increase by June 10.

(iii) The State agency may elect to verify changes which result in an increase in a household's benefits in accordance with the verification requirements of § 273.2(f)(8)(ii), prior to taking action on these changes. If the State agency elects this option, it must allow the household 10 days from the date the change is reported to provide verification required by § 273.2(f)(8)(ii). If the household provides verification within this period, the State shall take action on the changes within the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section. The timeframes shall run from the date the change was reported, not from the date of verification. If, however, the household fails to provide the required verification within 10 days after the change is reported but does provide the verification at a later date, then the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section for taking action on changes shall run from the date verification is provided rather than from the date the change is reported. If the State agency does not elect this option, verification required by § 273.2(f)(8)(ii) must be obtained prior to the issuance of the second normal monthly allotment after the change is reported. If in these circumstances the household does not provide verification, the household's benefits will revert to the original benefit level. Whenever a State agency increases a household's benefits to reflect a reported change and subsequent verification shows that the household was actually eligible for fewer benefits, the State agency shall establish a claim for the overissuance in accordance with § 273.18. In cases where the State agency has determined that a household has refused to cooperate as defined in § 273.2(d), the State agency shall terminate the household's eligibility following the notice of adverse action.
