
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### ยง 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## Decreases in benefits.

(2)(i) If the household's benefit level decreases or the household becomes ineligible as a result of the change, the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action within 10 days of the date the change was reported unless one of the exemptions to the notice of adverse action in ยง 273.13 (a)(3) or (b) applies. When a notice of adverse action is used, the decrease in the benefit level shall be made effective no later than the allotment for the month following the month in which the notice of adverse action period has expired, provided a fair hearing and continuation of benefits have not been requested. When a notice of adverse action is not used due to one of the exemptions in ยง 273.13 (a)(3) or (b), the decrease shall be made effective no later than the month following the change. Verification which is required by ยง 273.2(f) must be obtained prior to recertification.

(ii) The State agency may suspend a household's certification prospectively for one month if the household becomes temporarily ineligible because of a periodic increase in recurring income or other change not expected to continue in the subsequent month. If the suspended household again becomes eligible, the State agency shall issue benefits to the household on the household's normal issuance date. If the suspended household does not become eligible after one month, the State agency shall terminate the household's certification. Households are responsible for reporting changes as required by paragraph (a) of this section during the period of suspension.
