
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### § 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## Federal adjustments to eligibility standards, allotments, and deductions, and State adjustments to utility standards.

(1)(i) State agencies shall implement these changes for all households at a specific point in time. Adjustments to Federal standards shall be implemented prospectively regardless of the household's budgeting system. Annual and seasonal adjustments in State utility standards shall also be implemented prospectively for all households.

(A) Adjustments in the maximum SNAP allotment shall be effective in accordance with § 273.10(e)(4)(ii).

(B) Adjustments in the standard deduction shall be effective in accordance with § 273.9(d)(1).

(C) Adjustments in the shelter deduction shall be effective in accordance with § 273.9(d)(6).

(D) Adjustments in the income eligibility standards shall be effective in accordance with § 273.9(a)(3).

(ii) A notice of adverse action shall not be used for these changes. At a minimum, the State agencies shall publicize these mass changes through the news media; posters in certification offices, issuance locations, or other sites frequented by certified households; or general notices mailed to households. At its option, the State agency may send the notice described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section or some other type of written explanation of the change. A household whose certification period overlaps a seasonal variation in the State utility standard shall be advised at the time of initial certification of when the adjustment will occur and what the variation in the benefit level will be, if known.
