
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### ยง 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## Unclear information.

(3)During the certification period, the State agency might obtain unclear information about a household's circumstances from which the State agency cannot readily determine the effect on the household's continued eligibility for SNAP, or in certain cases benefit amounts. The State agency may receive such unclear information from a third party. Unclear information is information that is not verified, or information that is verified but the State needs additional information to act on the change.

(i) The State agency must pursue clarification and verification (if applicable) of household circumstances using the following procedure if unclear information received outside the periodic report is: Fewer than 60 days old relative to the current month of participation; and would, if accurate, have been required to be reported under the requirements that apply to the household under 273.12 based on the reporting system to which they have been assigned. Additionally, the State agency must pursue clarification and verification (if applicable) of household circumstances using the following procedure for any unclear information that appears to present significantly conflicting information from that used by the State agency at the time of certification. The procedures for unclear information regarding matches described in ยง 272.18 of this chapter are found in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(A) The State agency shall issue a written request for contact (RFC) which clearly advises the household of the verification it must provide or the actions it must take to clarify its circumstances, which affords the household at least 10 days to respond and to clarify its circumstances, either by telephone or by correspondence, as the State agency directs, and which states the consequences if the household fails to respond to the RFC.

(B) If the household does not respond to the RFC, or does respond but refuses to provide sufficient information to clarify its circumstances, the State agency must issue a notice of adverse action as described in ยง 273.13. The State has two options:
