
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### § 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## 2

() Alternatively, the State agency may elect to issue a notice of adverse action that suspends the household for 1 month before the termination becomes effective, explains the reasons for the action, and advises the household of the need to submit new information if it wishes to continue participating. If the household responds satisfactorily to the RFC during the period of suspension, the State agency must reinstate the household without requiring a new application, issue the allotment for the month of suspension and, if necessary, adjust the household's participation with a new notice of adverse action.

(C) If the household responds to the RFC and provides sufficient information, the State agency must act on the new circumstances in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, as appropriate.

(ii) If the unclear information does not meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and does not relate to the matches described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, then the State agency shall not act on the information or require the household to provide information until the household's next certification action or periodic report is due. A State may follow up with a household to provide information on a voluntary basis if that information would result in an increase in benefits but may not take adverse action if the household does not respond.

(iii) Unclear information resulting from certain data matches. If a State receives match information from a match described in § 272.13 or § 272.14, the State shall follow up with a notice of match results as described in § 272.13(b)(4) and § 272.14 (c)(4). If a State receives information from a match described in § 272.18 of this chapter, the State shall follow up with a combined notice of match results and adverse action as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The notices must clearly explain what information is needed from the household and the consequences of failing to respond to the notice as explained in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) this section.

(A) For households subject to change reporting, if the household fails to respond to the notice of match results or does respond but refuses to provide sufficient information to clarify its circumstances, the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action as described in § 273.13 that terminates the case.

(B) For all households not subject to change reporting, if the household fails to respond to the notice of match results or does respond but refuses to provide sufficient information to clarify its circumstances, the State agency shall remove the subject individual and the individual's income from the household and adjust benefits accordingly. As appropriate the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action as described in § 273.13.

(iv) If a State agency receives unclear information during the certification period from a match described in § 272.18 of this chapter, the State agency shall initiate action to resolve the match and communicate with the other State agency within 10 days of receipt of the match notification, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The State agency that receives a NAC data match shall provide to the household a notice of match results and notice of adverse action as described at § 273.13. The notice must clearly explain what information is needed from the household and the consequences of not responding in a timely manner as described at paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. Any communication with the household, including a written notice, must not include the location of the individual(s) identified in a match and must follow bilingual requirements at § 272.4(b) of this chapter. State agencies must also follow regulations at § 272.18(c)(9) of this chapter for those who are considered vulnerable individual. Consistent with verification standards in § 273.2(f), the State agency must give the household at least 10 days to provide required verification.

(B) The State agency shall communicate with the other State agency to inform them they have initiated action to resolve the match. After the State agency has determined the appropriate disposition of the case, they shall promptly share the resolution information with the other State agency.
