
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart E - Continuing Participation
####### ยง 273.12 Reporting requirements.
######## PA and GA households.

(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, PA households have the same reporting requirements as any other SNAP household. PA households which report a change in circumstances to the PA worker shall be considered to have reported the change for SNAP purposes. All of the requirements pertaining to reporting changes for PA households shall be applied to GA households in project areas where GA and SNAP cases are processed jointly in accordance with provisions of ยง 273.2(j)(3).

(2)(i) State agencies may use a joint change reporting form for households to report changes for both PA and SNAP purposes. Whenever a joint change reporting form is used, the State agency shall insure that adjustments are made in a household's eligibility status or allotment for the months determined appropriate given the household's budgeting cycle.

(ii) State agencies may combine the use of a joint PA/SNAP change reporting form with a PA reporting system that demands the regular submission of reports, such as a monthly reporting system. The State agency shall insure that the procedures in ยง 273.21(h) are followed.

(3) The State agency may not terminate a household's SNAP benefits solely because it has terminated the household's PA benefits without a separate determination that the household fails to satisfy the eligibility requirements for participation in the Program. Whenever a change results in the reduction or termination of a household's PA benefits within its SNAP certification period, the State agency must follow the procedures set forth below:

(i) If a change in household circumstances requires a reduction or termination in the PA payment and the State agency has sufficient information to determine how the change affects the household's SNAP eligibility and benefit level, the State agency must take the following actions:

(A) If the change requires a reduction or termination of SNAP benefits, the State agency must issue a single notice of adverse action for both the PA and SNAP actions. If the household requests a fair hearing within the period provided by the notice of adverse action, the State agency must continue the household's SNAP benefits on the basis authorized immediately prior to sending the notice. If the fair hearing is requested for both programs' benefits, the State agency must conduct the hearing according to PA procedures and timeliness standards. However, the household must reapply for SNAP benefits if the SNAP certification period expires before the fair hearing process is completed. If the household does not appeal, the State agency must make the change effective in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(B) If the household's SNAP benefits will increase as a result of the reduction or termination of PA benefits, the State agency must issue the PA notice of adverse action, but must not take any action to increase the household's SNAP benefits until the household decides whether it will appeal the PA adverse action. If the household decides to appeal and its PA benefits are continued, the household's SNAP benefits must continue at the previous level. If the household does not appeal, the State agency must make the change effective in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section, except that the time limits for the State agency to act on changes which increase a household's benefits must be calculated from the date the PA notice of adverse action period expires.

(ii) Whenever a change results in the termination of a household's PA benefits within its SNAP certification period, and the State agency does not have sufficient information to determine how the change affects the household's SNAP eligibility and benefit level (such as when an absent parent returns to a household, and the household asks to have its TANF case closed without providing any information on the income of the new household member), the State agency must take the following action:

(A) If the situation requires a reduction or termination of PA benefits, the State agency must issue a request for contact (RFC) in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section at the same time it sends a PA notice of adverse action. Before taking further action, the State agency must wait until the household's PA notice of adverse action period expires or until the household requests a fair hearing, whichever occurs first. If the household requests a fair hearing and elects to have its PA benefits continued pending the appeal, the State agency must continue the household's SNAP benefits at the same level. If the household decides not to request a fair hearing and continuation of its PA benefits, the State agency must resume action on the changes as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(B) If the situation does not require a PA notice of adverse action, the State agency must issue a RFC and take action in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(iii) Depending on the household's response to the RFC, the State agency must take appropriate action, if necessary, to close the household's case or adjust the household's benefit amount.
