
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.15 Fair hearings.
######## Household rights during hearing.

(p)The household may not be familiar with the rules of order and it may be necessary to make particular efforts to arrive at the facts of the case in a way that makes the household feel most at ease. The household or its representative must be given adequate opportunity to:

(1) Examine all documents and records to be used at the hearing at a reasonable time before the date of the hearing as well as during the hearing. The contents of the case file including the application form and documents of verification used by the State agency to establish the household's ineligibility or eligibility and allotment shall be made available, provided that confidential information, such as the names of individuals who have disclosed information about the household without its knowledge or the nature or status of pending criminal prosecutions, is protected from release. If requested by the household or its representative, the State agency shall provide a free copy of the portions of the case file that are relevant to the hearing. Confidential information that is protected from release and other documents or records which the household will not otherwise have an opportunity to contest or challenge shall not be introduced at the hearing or affect the hearing official's decision.

(2) Present the case or have it presented by a legal counsel or other person.

(3) Bring witnesses.

(4) Advance arguments without undue interference.

(5) Question or refute any testimony or evidence, including an opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses.

(6) Submit evidence to establish all pertinent facts and circumstances in the case.
