
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.15 Fair hearings.
######## Implementation of final State agency decisions.

(s)The State agency is responsible for insuring that all final hearing decisions are reflected in the household's SNAP benefit allotment within the time limits specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) When the hearing authority determines that a household has been improperly denied program benefits or has been issued a lesser allotment than was due, lost benefits shall be provided to the household in accordance with ยง 273.17. The State agency shall restore benefits to households which are leaving the project area before the departure whenever possible. If benefits are not restored prior to the household's departure, the State agency shall forward an authorization to the benefits to the household or to the new project area if this information is known. The new project area shall accept an authorization and issue the appropriate benefits whether the notice is presented by the household or received directly from another project area.

(2) When the hearing authority upholds the State agency's action, a claim against the household for any overissuances shall be prepared in accordance with ยง 273.18.
