
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Disqualification hearing procedures.

(2)(i) State agencies have the option of using the same hearing officials for disqualification hearings and fair hearings or designating hearing officials to conduct only disqualification hearings.

(ii) The provisions of ยง 273.15 (m), (n), (o), (p), and (q)(1) are also applicable for disqualification hearings.

(iii) At the disqualification hearing, the hearing official shall advise the household member or representative that they may refuse to answer questions during the hearing.

(iv) Within 90 days of the date the household member is notified in writing that a State or local hearing initiated by the State agency has been scheduled, the State agency shall conduct the hearing, arrive at a decision and notify the household member and local agency of the decision. The household member or representative is entitled to a postponement of the scheduled hearing, provided that the request for postponement is made at least 10 days in advance of the date of the scheduled hearing. However, the hearing shall not be postponed for more than a total of 30 days and the State agency may limit the number of postponements to one. If the hearing is postponed, the above time limits shall be extended for as many days as the hearing is postponed.

(v) The State agency shall publish clearly written rules of procedure for disqualification hearings, and shall make these procedures available to any interested party.
