
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Advance notice of hearing.

(3)(i) The State agency shall provide written notice to the individual suspected of committing an intentional Program violation at least 30 days in advance of the date a disqualification hearing initiated by the State agency has been scheduled. If mailed, the notice shall be sent either first class mail or certified mail-return receipt requested. The notice may also be provided by any other reliable method. If the notice is sent using first class mail and is returned as undeliverable, the hearing may still be held.

(ii) If no proof of receipt is obtained, a timely (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) showing of nonreceipt by the individual due to circumstances specified by the State agency shall be considered good cause for not appearing at the hearing. Each State agency shall establish the circumstances in which non-receipt constitutes good cause for failure to appear. Such circumstances shall be consistent throughout the State agency.

(iii) The notice shall contain at a minimum:

(A) The date, time, and place of the hearing;

(B) The charge(s) against the individual;

(C) A summary of the evidence, and how and where the evidence can be examined;

(D) A warning that the decision will be based solely on information provided by the State agency if the individual fails to appear at the hearing;

(E) A statement that the individual or representative will, upon receipt of the notice, have 10 days from the date of the scheduled hearing to present good cause for failure to appear in order to receive a new hearing;

(F) A warning that a determination of intentional Program violation will result in disqualification periods as determined by paragraph (b) of this section, and a statement of which penalty the State agency believes is applicable to the case scheduled for a hearing;

(G) A listing of the individual's rights as contained in ยง 273.15(p);

(H) A statement that the hearing does not preclude the State or Federal Government from prosecuting the individual for the intentional Program violation in a civil or criminal court action, or from collecting any overissuance(s); and

(I) If there is an individual or organization available that provides free legal representation, the notice shall advise the affected individual of the availability of the service.

(iv) A copy of the State agency's published hearing procedures shall be attached to the 30-day advance notice or the advance notice shall inform the individual of his/her right to obtain a copy of the State agency's published hearing procedures upon request.

(v) Each State agency shall develop an advance notice form which contains the information required by this section.
