
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Notification of hearing decision.

(9)(i) If the hearing official finds that the household member did not commit intentional Program violation, the State agency shall provide a written notice which informs the household member of the decision.

(ii) If the hearing official finds that the household member committed intentional Program violation, the State agency shall provide written notice to the household member prior to disqualification. The notice shall inform the household member of the decision and the reason for the decision. In addition, the notice shall inform the household member of the date the disqualification will take effect. If the individual is no longer participating, the notice shall inform the individual that the period of disqualification will be deferred until such time as the individual again applies for and is determined eligible for Program benefits. The State agency shall also provide written notice to the remaining household members, if any, of either the allotment they will receive during the period of disqualification or that they must reapply because the certification period has expired. The procedures for handling the income and resources of the disqualified member are described in ยง 273.11(c). A written demand letter for restitution, as described in ยง 273.18(d)(3), shall also be provided.

(iii) Each State agency shall develop a form for notifying individuals that they have been found by an administrative disqualification hearing to have committed intentional Program violation. The form shall contain the information required by this section.
