
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Local level hearings.

(10)(i) The State agency may choose to provide administrative disqualification hearings at the local level in some or all of its project areas with a right to appeal to a State level hearing. If a local level disqualification hearing determines that a household member committed intentional Program violation, the notification of hearing decision described in paragraph (e)(9) of this section shall also inform the household member of the right to appeal the decision within 15 days after the receipt of the notice, the date the disqualification will take effect unless a State level hearing is requested, and that benefits will be continued pending a State level hearing if the household is otherwise eligible. If the household member appeals the local level decision, the advance notice of hearing, as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, shall be provided at least 10 days in advance of the scheduled State level hearing and shall also inform the household member that the local hearing decision will be upheld if the household or its representative fails to appear for the hearing without good cause. When a local level decision is appealed, the State agency shall conduct the State level hearing, arrive at a decision, and notify the household member and local agency of the decision within 60 days of the date the household member appealed its case. The prior decision shall not be taken into consideration by the State hearing officer in making the final determination. In all other respects, local level disqualification hearings shall be handled in accordance with the procedures specified in this section for State level hearings.

(ii) The State agency shall develop appropriate forms which contain the information required by this section for notification of a local level hearing decision and advance notice of a scheduled State level hearing for appeal of a local level decision.
