
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Imposition of disqualification penalties.

(8)(i) If the hearing authority rules that the individual has committed an intentional Program violation, the household member must be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods and procedures in paragraph (b) of this section. The same act of intentional Program violation repeated over a period of time must not be separated so that separate penalties can be imposed.

(ii) No further administrative appeal procedure exists after an adverse State level hearing. The determination of intentional Program violation made by a disqualification hearing official cannot be reversed by a subsequent fair hearing decision. The household member, however, is entitled to seek relief in a court having appropriate jurisdiction. The period of disqualification may be subject to stay by a court of appropriate jurisdiction or other injunctive remedy.

(iii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualifed member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
