
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Participation while awaiting a hearing.

(5)A pending disqualification hearing shall not affect the individual's or the household's right to be certified and participate in the Program. Since the State agency cannot disqualify a household member for intentional Program violation until the hearing official finds that the individual has committed intentional Program violation, the State agency shall determine the eligibility and benefit level of the household in the same manner it would be determined for any other household. For example, if the misstatement or action for which the household member is suspected of intentional Program violation does not affect the household's current circumstances, the household would continue to receive its allotment based on the latest certification action or be recertified based on a new application and its current circumstances. However, the household's benefits shall be terminated if the certification period has expired and the household, after receiving its notice of expiration, fails to reapply. The State agency shall also reduce or terminate the household's benefits if the State agency has documentation which substantiates that the household is ineligible or eligible for fewer benefits (even if these facts led to the suspicion of intentional Program violation and the resulting disqualification hearing) and the household fails to request a fair hearing and continuation of benefits pending the hearing. For example, the State agency may have facts which substantiate that a household failed to report a change in its circumstances even though the State agency has not yet demonstrated that the failure to report involved an intentional act of Program violation.
