
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Appropriate cases.

(1)(i) The State agency shall refer cases of alleged intentional Program violation for prosecution in accordance with an agreement with prosecutors or State law. The agreement shall provide for prosecution of intentional Program violation cases and include the understanding that prosection will be pursued in cases where appropriate. This agreement shall also include information on how, and under what circumstances, cases will be accepted for possible prosecution and any other criteria set by the prosecutor for accepting cases for prosecution, such as a minimum amount of overissuance which resulted from intentional Program violation.

(ii) State agencies are encouraged to refer for prosecution under State or local statutes those individuals suspected of committing intentional Program violation, particularly if large amounts of SNAP benefits are suspected of having been obtained by intentional Program violation, or the individual is suspected of committing more than one act of intentional Program violation. The State agency shall confer with its legal representative to determine the types of cases which will be accepted for possible prosecution. State agencies shall also encourage State and local prosecutors to recommend to the courts that a disqualification penalty as provided in section 6(b) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 be imposed in addition to any other civil or criminal penalties for such violations.
