
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Imposition of disqualification penalties.

(2)(i) State agencies shall disqualify an individual found guilty of intentional Program violation for the length of time specified by the court. If the court fails to impose a disqualification period, the State agency shall impose a disqualification period in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section, unless contrary to the court order. If disqualification is ordered but a date for initiating the disqualification period is not specified, the State agency shall initiate the disqualification period for currently eligible individuals within 45 days of the date the disqualification was ordered. Any other court-imposed disqualification shall begin within 45 days of the date the court found a currently eligible individual guilty of civil or criminal misrepresentation or fraud.

(ii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualified member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
