
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.16 Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
######## Imposition of disqualification penalties.

(2)(i) If the household member suspected of intentional Program violation signs the waiver of right to an administrative disqualification hearing and the signed waiver is received within the timeframes specified by the State agency, the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The period of disqualification shall begin with the first month which follows the date the household member receives written notification of the disqualification. However, if the act of intentional Program violation which led to the disqualification occurred prior to the written notification of the disqualification periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods in effect at the time of the offense. The same act of intentional Program violation repeated over a period of time shall not be separated so that separate penalties can be imposed.

(ii) No further administrative appeal procedure exists after an individual waives his/her right to an administrative disqualification hearing and a disqualification penalty has been imposed. The disqualification penalty cannot be changed by a subsequent fair hearing decision. The household member, however is entitled to seek relief in a court having appropriate jurisdiction. The period of disqualification may be subject to stay by a court of appropriate jurisdiction or other injunctive remedy.

(iii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualified member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
