
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart F - Disqualification and Claims
####### ยง 273.17 Restoration of lost benefits.
######## Disputed benefits.

(c)(1) If the State agency determines that a household is entitled to restoration of lost benefits, but the household does not agree with the amount to be restored as calculated by the State agency or any other action taken by the State agency to restore lost benefits, the household may request a fair hearing within 90 days of the date the household is notified of its entitlement to restoration of lost benefits. If a fair hearing is requested prior to or during the time lost benefits are being restored, the household shall receive the lost benefits as determined by the State agency pending the results of the fair hearing. If the fair hearing decision is favorable to the household, the State agency shall restore the lost benefits in accordance with that decision.

(2) If a household believes it is entitled to restoration of lost benefits but the State agency, after reviewing the case file, does not agree, the household has 90 days from the date of the State agency determination to request a fair hearing. The State agency shall restore lost benefits to the household only if the fair hearing decision is favorable to the household. Benefits lost more than 12 months prior to the date the State agency was initially informed of the household's possible entitlement to lost benefits shall not be restored.
