
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart G - Program Alternatives
####### ยง 273.21 Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting (MRRB).
######## State agency action on reports,Processing.

(j)-(1)Upon receiving a monthly report, the State agency shall:

(i) Review the report to ensure accuracy and completeness.

(ii) Consider the report incomplete only if:

(A) It is not signed by the head of the household, an authorized representative or a responsible member of the household;

(B) It is not accompanied by verification required by the State agency on the monthly report;

(C) It omits information required by the State agency on the monthly report necessary either to determine the household's eligibility or to compute the household's level of SNAP benefits.

(iii) Determine those items which will require additional verification, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(iv) Contact the household directly, and take action as needed, to obtain further information on specific items. These items include:

(A) The effect of a reported change in resources on a household's total resources; and

(B) The effect of a reported change in household composition or loss of a job or source of earned income on the applicability of the work registration requirement.

(v) Notify the household, in accordance with paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section, of the need to submit a report, correct an incomplete or inaccurate report, or submit the necessary verification within the extension period.

(vi) Determine the household's eligibility by considering all factors, including income, in accordance with paragraphs (e) or (g) of this section.

(vii) Determine the household's level of benefits in accordance with ยง 273.10(e) based on the household composition determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section. For those household members the following (except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section) income and deductions shall be considered:

(A) Earned and unearned income received in the corresponding budget month, including income that has been averaged in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. The earned income of an elementary or secondary school student excluded in accordance with ยง 273.9(c)(7) shall be excluded until the budget month following the budget month in which the student turns 18. The State agency has the option of converting to a regular monthly amount the income that a household receives weekly or biweekly. If the State agency elects to convert weekly or biweekly income for MRRB households, it shall do so for all households in its MRRB caseload. The State agency may convert or average income in the beginning months and use actual earned or unearned income received in the budget month following the beginning months of participation.

(B) The PA grant paid in the corresponding budget month or the PA grant to be paid in the issuance month. If the State agency elects to use the PA grant to be paid in the issuance month, the State agency shall ensure that:
