
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart G - Program Alternatives
####### ยง 273.21 Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting (MRRB).
######## Incomplete filing.

(3)(i) If a household fails to file a monthly report, or files an incomplete report, by the specified filing date, the State agency shall give the household at least ten more days, from the date the State agency mails the notice to file a complete monthly report.

(ii) The State agency shall notify the household within five days of the filing date:

(A) That the monthly report is either overdue or incomplete;

(B) What the household must do to complete the form;

(C) If any verification is missing and the lack of that verification will adversely affect the household's allotment;

(D) That the Social Security number of a new member must be reported, if the household has reported a new member but not the new member's Social Security number;

(E) What the extended filing date is;

(F) That the State agency will assist the household in completing the report.

(iii) When a State agency requires verification for the item listed and the household does not provide the verification, the State agency shall take the following actions:

(A) If the household does not verify earned income, the State agency shall regard the household's report as incomplete, take action in accordance with paragraphs (j)(3)(i) and (j)(3)(ii) of this section and, if appropriate, terminate the household in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section.

(B) If the household is using its actual utility costs to establish its shelter cost deduction in accordance with ยง 273.9(d) and it does not verify a change in its actual utility expenses, the State agency shall not allow a deduction for such costs.

(C) If a household fails to verify a change in reported medical expenses in accordance with ยง 273.2(f)(8), and that change would increase the household's allotment, the State agency shall not make the change. The State agency shall act on reported changes without requiring verification if the changes would decrease the household's allotment, or make the household ineligible.

(D) If the household does not verify other items for which verification is required, the State agency shall:
