
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart G - Program Alternatives
####### ยง 273.23 Simplified application and standardized benefit projects.
######## General.

(a)This subpart establishes rules under which Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Projects shall operate. State agencies and political subdivisions chosen as project operators may designate households containing members receiving TANF, SSI, or Medicaid benefits as project eligible. Project eligible households shall have their SNAP eligibility determined using simplified application procedures. SNAP eligibility shall be determined using information contained in their TANF, or Medicaid application, or, in the case of SSI, on the State Data Exchange (SDX) tape, and any appropriate addendum. Project-eligible households shall be considered categorically SNAP resource eligible based on their eligibility for these other programs and shall be required to meet SNAP income eligibility standards. However, income definitions appropriate to the TANF, SSI or Medicaid programs shall be used instead of SNAP income definitions in determining eligibility. In addition, such households shall, as a condition of program eligibility, meet and/or fulfill all SNAP nonfinancial eligibility requirements. (Project-eligible households defined as categorically eligible in ยง 273.2 (j) and (k) of these regulations are not required to meet the income eligibility standards.) To further simplify program administration, benefits provided to such households may be standardized by category of assistance and household size.
