
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart G - Program Alternatives
####### ยง 273.21 Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting (MRRB).
######## Notices.

(4)(i) All notices regarding changes in a household's benefits shall meet the definition of adequate notice as defined in ยง 271.2 of this chapter.

(ii) If a household fails to file a monthly report by the specified filing date, the State agency shall notify the household within five days of the filing date:

(A) That the monthly report is either overdue or incomplete;

(B) What the household must do to complete the form;

(C) If any verification is missing;

(D) That the Social Security number of a new member must be reported, if the household has reported a new member but not the new member's Social Security number;

(E) What the extended filing date is;

(F) That the State agency will assist the household in completing the report; and

(G) That the household's benefits will be issued based on the previous month's submitted report without regard to any changes in the household's circumstances if the missing report is not submitted.

(iii) Simultaneously with the issuance, the State agency shall notify a household, if its report has not been received, that the benefits being provided are based on the previous month's submitted report and that this benefit does not reflect any changes in the household's circumstances. This notice shall also advise the household that, if a complete report is not filed timely, the household will be terminated.

(iv) If the household is terminated, the State agency shall send the notice so the household receives it no later than the date benefits would have been received. This notice shall advise the household of its right to reinstatement if a complete monthly report is submitted by the end of the month following termination.
