
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 273 - CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS
###### Subpart G - Program Alternatives
####### ยง 273.25 Simplified SNAP.
######## Limit on benefit reduction for mixed-TANF households under the S-SNAP.

(b)If a State agency chooses to operate an S-SNAP and includes mixed-TANF households in its program, the following requirements apply in addition to the statutory requirements governing the S-SNAP.

(1) If a State's S-SNAP reduces benefits for mixed-TANF households, then no more than 5 percent of these participating households can have benefits reduced by 10 percent of the amount they are eligible to receive under the regular SNAP and no mixed-TANF household can have benefits reduced by 25 percent or more of the amount it is eligible to receive under the regular SNAP. Reductions of $10 or less will be disregarded when applying this requirement.

(2) The State must include in its State S-SNAP plan an analysis showing the impact its program has on benefit levels for mixed-TANF households by comparing the allotment amount such households would receive using the rules and procedures of the State's S-SNAP with the allotment amount these households would receive if certified under regular SNAP rules and showing the number of households whose allotment amount would be reduced by 9.99 percent or less, by 10 to 24.99 percent, and by 25 percent or more, excluding those households with reductions of $10 or less. In order for FNS to accurately evaluate the program's impact, States must describe in detail the methodology used as the basis for this analysis.

(3) To ensure compliance with the benefit reduction requirement once an S-SNAP is operational, States must describe in their plan and have approved by FNS a methodology for measuring benefit reductions for mixed-TANF households on an on-going basis throughout the duration of the SFSP. In addition, States must report to FNS on a periodic basis the amount of benefit loss experienced by mixed-TANF households participating in the State's S-SNAP. The frequency of such reports will be determined by FNS taking into consideration such factors as the number of mixed-TANF households participating in the S-SNAP and the amount of benefit loss attributed to these households through initial or on-going analyses.
