
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 275 - PERFORMANCE REPORTING SYSTEM
###### Subpart C - Quality Control (QC) Reviews
####### ยง 275.12 Review of active cases.
######## Household case record review.

(b)The reviewer shall examine the household case record to identify the specific facts relating to the household's eligibility and basis of issuance. If the reviewer is unable to locate the household case record, the reviewer shall identify as many of the pertinent facts as possible from the household issuance record. The case record review shall include all information applicable to the case as of the review month, including the application and worksheet in effect as of the review date. Documentation contained in the case record can be used as verification if it is not subject to change and applies to the sample month. If during the case record review the reviewer can determine and verify the household's ineligibility the review can be terminated at that point, provided that if the determination is based on information not obtained from the household then the correctness of that information must be confirmed as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The reviewer shall utilize information obtained through the case record review to complete column (2) of the Form FNS-380, and to tentatively plan the content of the field investigation.
