
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 275 - PERFORMANCE REPORTING SYSTEM
###### Subpart C - Quality Control (QC) Reviews
####### § 275.12 Review of active cases.
######## Variances excluded from error analysis.

(2)The following variances shall be excluded from the determination of a household's eligibility and basis of issuance for the sample month:

(i) Any variance resulting from the nonverified portion of a household's gross nonexempt income where there is conclusive documentation (a listing of what attempts were made to verify and why they were unsuccessful) that such income could not be verified at the time of certification because the source of income would not cooperate in providing verification and no other sources of verification were available. If there is no conclusive documentation as explained above, then the reviewer shall not exclude any resulting variance from the error determination. This follows certification policy outlined in § 273.2(f)(1)(i) of this chapter.

(ii) Any variance in cases certified under expedited certification procedures resulting from postponed verification of an element of eligibility as allowed under § 273.2(i)(4)(i) of this chapter. Verification of gross income, deductions, resources, household composition, alien status, or tax dependency may be postponed for cases eligible for expedited certification. However, if a case certified under expedited procedures contains a variance as a result of a residency deficiency, a mistake in the basis of issuance computation, a mistake in participant identification, or incorrect expedited income accounting, the variance shall be included in the error determination. This exclusion shall only apply to those cases which are selected for QC review in the first month of participation under expedited certification.

(iii) Any variance subsequent to certification in an element of eligibility or basis of issuance which was not reported and was not required to have been reported as of the review date. The elements participants are required to report and the time requirements for reporting are specified in §§ 273.12(a) and 273.21(h) and (i) of this chapter, as appropriate. If, however, a change in any element is reported, and the State agency fails to act in accordance with §§ 273.12(c) and 273.21(j) of this chapter, as appropriate, any resulting variance shall be included in the error determination.

(iv) Any variance in deductible expenses which was not provided for in determining a household's benefit level in accordance with § 273.2(f)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter. This provision allows households to have their benefit level determined without providing for a claimed expense when the expense is questionable and obtaining verification may delay certification. If such a household subsequently provides the needed verification for the claimed expense and the State agency does not redetermine the household's benefits in accordance with § 273.12(c) of this chapter, any resulting variance shall be included in the error determination.

(v) Any variance resulting from use by the State agency of information concerning households or individuals from an appropriate Federal source, provided that such information is correctly processed by the State agency. An appropriate Federal source is one which verifies: Income that it provides directly to the household; deductible expenses for which it directly bills the household; or other household circumstances which it is responsible for defining or establishing. To meet the provisions for correct processing, the eligibility worker must have appropriately acted on timely information. In order to be timely, information must be the most current that was available to the State agency at the time of the eligibility worker's action.

(vi) Two variances relating to the Immigration and Naturalization Service's (INS) Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program.

(A) A variance based on a verification of alien documentation by INS. The reviewer shall exclude such variance only if the State agency properly used SAVE and the State agency provides the reviewer with:
