
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 275 - PERFORMANCE REPORTING SYSTEM
###### Subpart C - Quality Control (QC) Reviews
####### ยง 275.12 Review of active cases.
######## 2

() A copy of the completed Form G-845, if the State agency was waiting for secondary verification from INS.

(vii) Subject to the limitations provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(vii)(A) through (d)(2)(vii)(F) of this section, any variance resulting from application of a new Program regulation or implementing memorandum of a mandatory or optional change in Federal law that occurs during the first 120 days from the required implementation date. The variance exclusion shall apply to any action taken on a case directly related to implementation of a covered provision during the 120-day exclusionary period until the case is required to be recertified or acted upon for some other reason.

(A) When a regulation allows a State agency an option to implement prior to the required implementation date, the date on which the State agency chooses to implement may, at the option of the State, be considered to be the required implementation date for purposes of this provision. The exclusion period would be adjusted to begin with this date and end on the 120th day that follows. States choosing to implement prior to the required implementation date must notify the appropriate FNS Regional Office, in writing, prior to implementation that they wish the 120 day variance exclusion to commence with actual implementation. Absent such notification, the exclusionary period will commence with the required implementation date.

(B) A State agency shall not exclude variances which occur prior to the States implementation.

(C) A State agency which did not implement until after the exclusion period shall not exclude variances under this provision.

(D) Regardless of when the State agency actually implemented the regulation, the variance exclusion period shall end on the 120th day following the required implementation date, including the required implementation date defined in paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(A) of this section.

(E) For purposes of this provision, implementation occurs on the effective date of State agency's written statewide notification to its eligibility workers.

(F) This variance exclusion applies to changes occasioned by final regulations or interim regulations. In the case of a final regulation issued following an interim regulation, the exclusion applies only to significant changes made to the earlier interim regulation. A significant change is one which the final regulation requires the State agency to implement on or after publication of a final rule.

(viii) Any variance resulting from incorrect written policy that a State agency acts on that is provided by a Departmental employee authorized to issue SNAP policy and that the State agency correctly applies. For purposes of this provision, written Federal policy is that which is issued in regulations, notices, handbooks, category three and four Policy Memoranda under the Policy Interpretation Response System, and regional policy memoranda issued pursuant to these. Written Federal policy is also a letter from the Food and Nutrition Service to a State agency which contains comments on the State agency's SNAP manual or instructions.

(ix) Any variance in a child support deduction which was the result of an unreported change subsequent to the most recent certification action shall be excluded from the error determination.
