
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 276 - STATE AGENCY LIABILITIES AND FEDERAL SANCTIONS
###### ยง 276.4 Suspension/disallowance of administrative funds.
####### Formal warning.

(2)FNS shall issue a formal warning to a State agency if the State fails to correct to the satisfaction of FNS the deficiencies noted in an advance notification within the time specified in the advance notification. FNS may also issue a formal warning to a State agency without first issuing an advance notification if a State agency fails to comply with a corrective action plan.

(i) Formal warnings shall include the following information:

(A) Specific descriptions of the deficiencies, explaining how the State agency is out of compliance with Program requirements;

(B) A Statement as to whether Federal funds will be suspended, disallowed or both, if appropriate;

(C) The amount of Federal funds that will be suspended and/or disallowed or an estimate of the amount if actual cost are unavailable; and

(D) A statement of FNS' willingness to assist State agencies is resolving the deficiencies.

(ii) A State agency shall have 30 days from receipt of a formal warning to submit evidence that it is in compliance or to submit a corrective action proposal, including the date the State agency will be in compliance.

(iii) When the deficiency cannot be corrected within 30 days of receipt of a formal warning but the State agency submits an acceptable plan for correcting the deficiency, FNS shall hold the formal warning in abeyance pending completion of the actions contained in the plan within the time specified in the plan.

(iv) FNS shall cancel a formal warning when the State agency submits evidence that shows, to the satisfaction of FNS, that the deficiency has been eliminated.
