
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 276 - STATE AGENCY LIABILITIES AND FEDERAL SANCTIONS
###### ยง 276.7 Administrative review process.
####### de novo,

(1) A hearing is an informal proceeding designed to permit the State agency an opportunity to present its position before a neutral third party. Because the final determination is subject to judicial review and trialthe Appeals Board and hearing official shall not be bound by the rules of civil procedure applicable in the court or by the adjudicatory requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act.

(2) The Appeals Board Chairman, his designee or the hearing official is the presiding officer at the hearing. The presiding officer shall have full authority to ensure a fair and impartial proceeding, avoid delays, maintain order and decorum, receive evidence, examine witnesses, and otherwise regulate the course of the hearing. The State agency may represent itself at the hearing or be represented by counsel.

(3) The Appeals Board or hearing official shall receive into evidence the oral testimony of State agency witnesses and any documents which are relevant and material. Neither the Department nor FNS is required to present witnesses at the hearing. However, the Department and FNS shall make staff available to provide any information or clarification requested by the Appeals Board or hearing official. Under no circumstances shall the Department or FNS introduce new evidence at the hearing. Departmental and FNS staff, as well as State agency witnesses, shall be subject to examination by the Appeals Board or hearing official. Departmental and FNS staff shall not be subject to cross-examination by State agency representative or counsel. Likewise, State agency witnesses shall not be subject to cross-examination by Departmental or FNS staff. Each side shall be permitted to make a closing statement to the Appeals Board or hearing official upon completion of the taking of evidence and testimony.

(4) FNS and the State agency shall have the opportunity to submit additional written information to the Appeals Board or hearing official within 10 days after the close of the hearing. No new factual material may be introduced except as it directly relates to evidence or testimony presented at the hearing. Five complete sets of such information must be filed with the Executive Secretary or postmarked prior to the expiration of the 10-day deadline for it to be considered.

(5) An official verbatim transcript of each hearing shall be kept on file in the Office of the Executive Secretary for public inspection. A copy shall be furnished to FNS and the State agency. Anyone wishing to purchase a copy may make arrangements to do so with the commercial reporting service involved.
