
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 276 - STATE AGENCY LIABILITIES AND FEDERAL SANCTIONS
###### ยง 276.7 Administrative review process.
####### Extension of time.

(k)(1) No extension of time shall be permitted a State agency in which to file an initial request for an administrative review. All other requests from the State agency or from FNS for the extension of any deadline contained in ยง 276.7 of these regulations or imposed by the Appeals Board or hearing official shall be granted only for good cause shown and only when received by the Executive Secretary before the expiration of the particular deadline involved. All requests for an extension shall be in writing. Filing a request for an extension stops the running of the prescribed period of time. When a request for an extension is granted, the requester shall be notified in writing of the amount of additional time granted. When a request is denied for being untimely or for cause, the requester shall be notified and the prescribed period of time shall resume from the date of denial.

(2) The Appeals Board or hearing official may grant itself such additional time as it may reasonably require to complete any of its assigned responsibilities. If the Appeals Board or hearing official does find it necessary to grant itself an extension of time, the Executive Secretary shall notify all parties in writing.
