
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 277.4 Funding.
####### Matching costs.

(c)State agency costs for Federal matching funds may consist of:

(1) Charges reported on a cash or accrual basis by the State agency as project costs.

(2) Project costs financed with cash contributed or donated to the State agency by other non-Federal public agencies and institutions.

(3) Project costs represented by services and real or personal property donated by other non-Federal public agencies and institutions.

(d) All cash or in-kind contributions except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section shall be allowable as part of the State agency's share of program costs when such contributions:

(1) Are verifiable;

(2) Are not contributed for another federally-assisted program, unless authorized by Federal legislation;

(3) Are necessary and reasonable for accomplishment of project objectives;

(4) Are charges that would be allowable under this part;

(5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another assistance agreement unless authorized under the other agreement and its subject laws and regulations; and

(6) Are in the approved budget.

(e) The value of services rendered by volunteers or the value of goods contributed by third parties, exclusive of the State and Federal agencies, are unallowable for reimbursement purposes under the SNAP. The value of services rendered by volunteers shall be allowable only to meet any matching administrative costs requirements for the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.

(f) The expenses (e.g. travel, lodging, meals) of persons working with volunteer or nonprofit organizations which receive training and assistance pursuant to ยง 272.4(d)(2) are not allowable.

(g) Investigations of authorized retail or wholesale food concerns when performed in coordination with the USDA Office of Inspector General and FNS shall be funded at the 50 percent Federal reimbursement rate.
