
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### § 277.6 Standards for financial management systems.
####### Responsibilities.

(b)Financial management systems for program funds in the State agency shall provide for:

(1) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of program activities in accordance with Federal reporting requirements.

(2) Records which identify the source and application of funds for FNS or State agency activities supporting the administration of the Program. These records shall show authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays and income of the State agency, its sub- agencies and agents.

(3) Records which identify unallowable costs and offsets resulting from FNS or other determinations as specified in § 277.16 and the disposition of these amounts. Accounting procedures must be in effect to prevent a State agency from claiming these costs under ongoing program administrative cost reports.

(4) Effective control and accountability by the State agency for all program funds, property, and other assets acquired with program funds. State agencies shall adequately safeguard all such assets and shall assure that they are used solely for program authorized purposes unless disposition has been made in accordance with § 277.13.

(5) Controls which minimize the time between the receipt of Federal funds from the United States Treasury and their disbursement for program costs. In the Letter of Credit system, the State agency shall make drawdowns from the U.S. Treasury through a U.S. Treasury Regional Disbursing Office as nearly as possible to the time of making the disbursements.

(6) Procedures to determine the reasonableness, allowability, and allocability of costs in accordance with the applicable provisions prescribed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.

(7) Support and source documents for costs.

(8) An audit trail including identification of time periods, initial and summary accounts, cost determination and allocation procedures, cost centers or other accounting procedures to support any costs claimed for program administration.

(9) Periodic audits by qualified individuals who are independent of those who maintain Federal program funds as prescribed in § 277.17.

(10) Methods to resolve audit findings and recommendations and to follow up on corrective or preventive actions.

(c) The standards in § 277.6(b) apply to subagencies or contractors involved with program funding.
