
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 277.13 Property.
####### Property management standards.

(d)State agencies' property management standards for nonexpendable personal property covered by this section shall include the following procedural requirements:

(1) Property records shall be maintained accurately and provide for:

(i) A description of the property.

(ii) Manufacturer's serial number or other identification number.

(iii) Acquisition date and cost.

(iv) Source of the property.

(v) Percentage of FNS funds used in the acquisition of the property, or sufficient information to be able to compute the percentage, if and when the property is disposed of.

(vi) Location, use and condition of the property.

(vii) Ultimate disposition data including sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value if the State agency reimburses FNS for its share.

(viii) Trade-in value of any property purchased with Federal funds where their trade-in value reduces the acquisition cost of new property.

(2) A physical inventory of property shall be taken and the results reconciled with the property records at least once every two years to verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the property.

(3) A control system shall be in effect to ensure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft to the property. Any loss, damage, or theft of nonexpendable personal property shall be investigated and properly documented.

(4) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition.

(5) Proper sales procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition.
