
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 277.14 Procurement standards.
####### Contracting with small and minority firms, women's business enterprises and labor surplus area firms.

(e)(1) It is FNS policy to award a fair share of contracts to small and minority business firms. State agencies must take affirmative steps to assure that small and minority businesses are utilized when possible as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. State agency affirmative steps shall include the following:

(i) Including qualified small and minority businesses on solicitation lists.

(ii) Assuring that small and minority businesses are solicited whenever they are potential sources.

(iii) When economically feasible, dividing total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities so as to permit maximum small and minority business participation.

(iv) Where the requirement permits, establishing delivery schedules which will encourage participation by small and minority business.

(v) Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration, the Office of Minority Business Enterprise of the Department of Commerce and the Community Services Administration, as appropriate.

(vi) If any subcontracts are to be let, requiring the prime contractor to take the affirmative steps in paragraphs (e)(1) (i) through (v) of this section.

(2) State agencies shall take similar appropriate affirmative action in support of women's business enterprises.

(3) State agencies are encouraged to procure goods and services from labor surplus areas, as defined by the Department of Labor.

(4) FNS shall impose no additional regulations or requirements in the foregoing areas unless specifically mandated by law or Executive order.
