
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 277.17 Audit requirements.
####### Audit report.

(e)The audit report shall include:

(1) Financial statements, including footnotes, of the State agency, subagency, or subcontractor organization.

(2) The auditor's comments on the financial statements which should:

(i) Identify the statements examined and the period covered.

(ii) Identify the various programs under which the organization received Federal funds, and the amounts received for each program.

(iii) State that the audit was done in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(iv) Express an opinion as to whether the financial statements are fairly presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. If an unqualified opinion cannot be expressed, state the nature of the qualification.

(3) The auditor's comments on compliance and internal control which should:

(i) Include comments on weaknesses in and noncompliance with the systems of internal control, separately identifying material weaknesses.

(ii) Identify the nature and impact of any noted instances of noncompliance with the terms of agreements and those provisions of Federal law or regulation that could have a material effect on the financial statements and reports.

(iii) Contain an expression of positive assurance with respect to compliance with requirements for tested items, and negative assurance for untested items.

(4) Comments on the accuracy and completeness of financial reports and claims for advances or reimbursements to Federal agencies.

(5) Comments on corrective action taken or planned by the State agency.
