
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 277.17 Audit requirements.
####### Audit coverage.

(d)A representative number of charges to Federal funds shall be tested. The test shall be representative of:

(1) The universe of Federal funds received, and

(2) All cost categories that materially affect the award. The test is to determine whether the charges:

(i) Are necessary and reasonable for the proper administration of the program;

(ii) Conform to any limitations or exclusions in the award;

(iii) Were given consistent accounting treatments and applied uniformly to both federally assisted and other activities of the State agency;

(iv) Were net of applicable credits;

(v) Did not include costs property chargeable to other federally assisted programs;

(vi) Were properly recorded (i.e., correct amount, date) and supported by source documentation;

(vii) Were approved in advance, if subject to prior approval in accordance with Financial Management Circular 74-4;

(viii) Were incurred in accordance with competitive purchasing procedures, if covered by 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415; and

(ix) Were allocated equitably to benefiting activities, including non-Federal activities.

(3) Audits usually will be made annually, but not less frequently than every two years.

(4) If the auditors become aware of irregularities in the State agency, subagency or subcontractor, the auditor shall promptly notify the cognizant agency and State agency management officials above the level of involvement. Irregularities include such matters as conflict of interest, falsification of records or reports, and misappropriation of funds and other assets.
