
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### ยง 277.16 Suspension, disallowance and program closeout.
####### Program transfer or termination.

(d)(1) When termination or transfer of a State program has been agreed upon by FNS, the following closeout procedure shall be observed:

(i) Upon request, FNS shall make or arrange for prompt payment to the State agency for allowable costs not covered by previous payments.

(ii) The State agency shall immediately refund to FNS any unobligated balance of cash withdrawn by the State agency for the administration of the program in the affected State or Indian reservation.

(iii) The State agency shall submit to FNS within 90 days after the date of termination of the program, all required financial, performance, and other reports. FNS may grant extensions when requested by the State agency.

(iv) FNS shall adjust the amount authorized by the Letter of Credit in order to effect payment of any amounts due the State agency, and if appropriate, shall bill the State agency for any amounts due to FNS. The amounts of such billings shall be promptly remitted to FNS.

(v) In the event a final audit has not been performed prior to the closeout of the program, FNS shall retain the right to disallow costs or recover funds resulting from the final audit findings.

(2) Provisions of ยง 277.13 apply for any property acquired with program funds or received from the Federal Government in connection with the program and which was in use in the affected project area or areas.
