
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### Appendix A to Part 277 - Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Administration of SNAP by State Agencies
####### Application.

(3)These principles will be applied by FNS in determining costs incurred by State agencies receiving FNS payments for administering SNAP.

(B) Definitions.

Approval or authorization by FNS means documentation evidencing consent prior to incurring specific costs.

Cognizant Federal Agency means the Federal agency recognized by OMB as having the predominate interest in terms of program dollars.

Cost allocation plan means the documentation identifying, accumulating, and distributing allowable costs of program administration together with the allocation methods used.

Cost, as used herein, means cost as determined on a cash, accrual, or other basis acceptable to FNS as a discharge of the State agency's accountability for FNS funds.

Cost center means a pool, summary account, objective or area established for the accumulation of costs. Such areas include objective organizational units, functions, objects or items of expense, as well as ultimate cost objective(s) including specific costs, products, projects, contracts, programs and other operations.

Federal agency means FNS and also any department, agency, commission, or instrumentality in the executive branch of the Federal Government which makes grants to or contracts with State or local governments.

Payments for administrative costs means reimbursement or advances for costs to State agencies pursuant to any agreement whereby FNS provides funds to carry out programs, services, or activities in connection with administration of SNAP. The principles and policies stated in this appendix as applicable to program payments in general also apply to any State agency obligations under a cost reimbursement type of agreement performed by a subagency, including contracts and subcontracts.

SNAP administration means those activities and operations of the State agency which are necessary to carry out the purposes of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, including any portion of the Program financed by the State agency.

Local unit means any political subdivision of government below the State level.

Other agencies of the State means departments or agencies of the State or local unit which provide goods, facilities, and services to a State agency.

Subagencies means the organization or person to which a State agency makes any payment for acquisition of goods, materials or services for use in administering SNAP and which is accountable to the State agency for the use of the funds provided.

Service, as used herein, means goods and facilities, as well as services.

Supporting services means auxiliary functions necessary to sustain the direct effort of administering the Program. These services may be centralized in the State agency or in some other agency, and include procurement, payroll, personnel functions, maintenance and operation of space, data processing, accounting, budgeting, auditing, mail and messenger service, and the like.

(C) Basic guidelines.

(1) Factors affecting allowability of costs. To be allowable under the Program, costs must meet the following general criteria:

(a) Be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient administration of the Program, be allocable thereto under these principles, and, except as specifically provided herein, not be a general expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of State or local governments.

(b) Be authorized or not prohibited under State or local laws or regulations.

(c) Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in these principles, Federal Laws, or other governing limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.

(d) Be consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to both federally assisted and other activities of the unit of government of which the State agency is a part.

(e) Be accorded consistent treatment through application of generally accepted accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

(f) Not be allocable to or included as a cost to any other federally financed program in either the current or a prior period.

(g) Be the net of all applicable credits.

(2) Allocable costs.

(a) A cost allocable to a particular cost objective to the extent of benefits received by such objective.

(b) Any cost allocable to a particular program or cost objective under these principles may not be shifted to other Federal programs to overcome fund deficiencies, avoid restrictions imposed by law or grant agreement, or for other reasons.

(c) Where an allocation of joint cost will ultimately result in charges to the Program, an allocation plan will be required as prescribed in section I of these principles.

(3) Applicable credits.

(a) Applicable credits refer to those receipts or reduction of expenditure-type transactions which offset or reduce expense items allocable to programs as direct or indirect costs. Examples of such transactions are: Purchase discounts; rebates or allowances; recoveries or indemnities on losses; sale of publications, equipment, and scrap; income from personal or incidental services; and adjustments of overpayments or erroneous charges.

(b) Applicable credits may also arise when Federal funds are received or are available from sources other than FNS to finance operations or capital items donated or financed by the Federal Government to fulfill matching requirements under another program. These types of credits should likewise be used to reduce related expenditures in determining the rates or amounts applicable to a given program.

(D) Composition of cost.
