
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 277 - PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES
###### Appendix A to Part 277 - Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Administration of SNAP by State Agencies
####### Predetermined fixed rate.

(b)A predetermined fixed rate for indirect cost of the unit or activity providing service may be negotiated as set forth in section F(2)(a) of these principles.

(H) Cost incurred by State agency for others. The principles provided in section G will also be used in determining the cost of services provided by the State agency to another agency.

(I) Cost allocation plan.

(1) A cost allocation will be required to support the distribution of any indirect costs. All costs allocable to SNAP under cost allocation plans will be supported by formal accounting records which will substantiate the propriety of eventual charges.

(2) There are two types of cost allocation plans:

(a) Statewide or central service cost allocation plan identifies and distributes the cost of services provided by support organizations to those departments or units participating in Federal programs.

(b) Indirect cost proposals distribute the administrative or joint costs incurred by the State agency and the cost of service allocable to it under the Statewide or central service cost allocation plan in a ratio to all work performed by the State agency. The process involves applying a percentage relationship of indirect cost to direct cost.
