
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 3 - DEBT MANAGEMENT
#### Subpart I - Adjusted Civil Monetary Penalties
##### ยง 3.91 Adjusted civil monetary penalties.
###### Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(2)(i) Civil penalty for a violation of the imported seed provisions of the Federal Seed Act, codified at 7 U.S.C. 1596(b), has a minimum of $107 and a maximum of $2,146.

(ii) Civil penalty for a violation of the Animal Welfare Act, codified at 7 U.S.C. 2149(b), has a maximum of $12,771, and knowing failure to obey a cease and desist order has a civil penalty of $1,915.

(iii) Civil penalty for any person that causes harm to, or interferes with, an animal used for the purposes of official inspection by USDA, codified at 7 U.S.C. 2279e(a), has a maximum of $15,896.

(iv) Civil penalty for a violation of the Swine Health Protection Act, codified at 7 U.S.C. 3805(a), has a maximum of $31,948.

(v) Civil penalty for any person that violates the Plant Protection Act (PPA), or that forges, counterfeits, or, without authority from the Secretary, uses, alters, defaces, or destroys any certificate, permit, or other document provided for in the PPA, codified a 7 U.S.C. 7734(b)(1), has a maximum of the greater of: $79,480 in the case of any individual (except that the civil penalty may not exceed $1,589 in the case of an initial violation of the PPA by an individual moving regulated articles not for monetary gain), $397,397 in the case of any other person for each violation, $638,556 for all violations adjudicated in a single proceeding if the violations do not include a willful violation, and $1,277,111 for all violations adjudicated in a single proceeding if the violations include a willful violation; or twice the gross gain or gross loss for any violation, forgery, counterfeiting, unauthorized us, defacing, or destruction of a certificate, permit, or other document provided for in the PPA that results in the person deriving pecuniary gain or causing pecuniary loss to another.

(vi) Civil penalty for any person (except as provided in 7 U.S.C. 8309(d)) that violates the Animal Health Protection Act (AHPA), or that forges, counterfeits, or, without authority from the Secretary, uses, alters, defaces, or destroys any certificate, permit, or other document provided under the AHPA, codified at 7 U.S.C. 8313(b)(1), has a maximum of the greater of: $76,279 in the case of any individual, except that the civil penalty may not exceed $1,526 in the case of an initial violation of the AHPA by an individual moving regulated articles not for monetary gain, $381,394 in the case of any other person for each violation, $638,556 for all violations adjudicated in a single proceeding if the violations do not include a willful violation, and $1,277,111 for all violations adjudicated in a single proceeding if the violations include a willful violation; or twice the gross gain or gross loss for any violation, forgery, counterfeiting, unauthorized use, defacing, or destruction of a certificate, permit, or other document provided under the AHPA that results in the person's deriving pecuniary gain or causing pecuniary loss to another person.

(vii) Civil penalty for any person that violates certain regulations under the Agricultural Bioterrorism Protection Act of 2002 regarding transfers of listed agents and toxins or possession and use of listed agents and toxins, codified at 7 U.S.C. 8401(i)(1), has a maximum of $381,394 in the case of an individual and $762,791 in the case of any other person.

(viii) Civil penalty for violation of the Horse Protection Act, codified at 15 U.S.C. 1825(b)(1), has a maximum of $6,294.

(ix) Civil penalty for failure to obey Horse Protection Act disqualification, codified at 15 U.S.C. 1825(c), has a maximum of $12,299.

(x) Civil penalty for knowingly violating, or, if in the business as an importer or exporter, violating, with respect to terrestrial plants, any provision of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, any permit or certificate issued thereunder, or any regulation issued pursuant to section 9(a)(1)(A) through (F), (a)(2)(A) through (D), (c), (d) (other than regulations relating to record keeping or filing reports), (f), or (g), as specified at 16 U.S.C. 1540(a)(1), has a maximum of $57,528 for each violation.

(xi) Civil penalty for knowingly violating, or, if in the business as an importer or exporter, violating, with respect to terrestrial plants, any other regulation under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as specified at 16 U.S.C. 1540(a)(1), has a maximum of $27,549 for each violation.

(xii) Civil penalty for violating, with respect to terrestrial plants, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, or any regulation, permit, or certificate issued thereunder, as specified at 16 U.S.C. 1540(a)(1), has a maximum of $1,452 for each violation.

(xiii) Civil penalty for knowingly and willfully violating 49 U.S.C. 80502 with respect to the transportation of animals by any rail carrier, express carrier, or common carrier (except by air or water), a receiver, trustee, or lessee of one of those carriers, or an owner or master of a vessel, codified at 49 U.S.C. 80502(d), has a minimum of $181 and a maximum of $924.

(xiv) Civil penalty for a violation of the Commercial Transportation of Equine for Slaughter Act, 7 U.S.C. 1901 note, and its implementing regulations in 9 CFR part 88, as specified in 9 CFR 88.6, has a maximum of $5,468. Each horse transported in violation of 9 CFR part 88 is a separate violation.

(xv) Civil penalty for knowingly violating section 3(d) or 3(f) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, or for violating any other provision provided that, in the exercise of due care, the violator should have known that the plant was taken, possessed, transported, or sold in violation of any underlying law, treaty, or regulation, has a maximum of $28,606 for each violation, as specified in 16 U.S.C. 3373(a)(1) (but if the plant has a market value of less than $382, and involves only the transportation, acquisition, or receipt of a plant taken or possessed in violation of any law, treaty, or regulation of the United States, any Indian tribal law, any foreign law, or any law or regulation of any State, the penalty will not exceed the maximum provided for violation of said law, treaty, or regulation, or $28,606, whichever is less).

(xvi) Civil penalty for violating section 3(f) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as specified in 16 U.S.C. 3373(a)(2), has a maximum of $715.
