
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### Application.

(a)Any firm desiring to participate or continue to be authorized in the program shall file an application as prescribed by FNS. Such an application shall contain information which will permit a determination to be made as to whether such an applicant qualifies, or continues to qualify, for authorization under the provisions of the program. FNS may require that a retail food store or wholesale food concern be visited to confirm eligibility for program participation prior to such store or concern being authorized or reauthorized in the program. Required visits shall be conducted by an authorized employee of the Department, a designee of the Secretary, or an official of the State or local government designated by the Secretary. FNS shall approve or deny the application within 45 days of receipt of a completed application. A completed application means that all information (other than an on-site visit) that FNS deems necessary in order to make a determination on the firm's application has been received. This information includes, but is not limited to, a completed application form, all information and documentation from the applicant, as well as any needed third-party verification and documentation.
