
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### Use and disclosure of information provided by firms.

(q)With the exception of EINs and SSNs, any information collected from retail food stores and wholesale food concerns, such as ownership information and sales and redemption data, may be disclosed for purposes directly connected with the administration and enforcement of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and these regulations, and can be disclosed to and used by State agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). Such information may also be disclosed to and used by Federal and State law enforcement and investigative agencies for the purpose of administering or enforcing other Federal or State law, and the regulations issued under such other law. Such disclosure and use shall also include companies or individuals under contract for the operation by, or on behalf of FNS to accomplish an FNS function. Such purposes include the audit and examination of such information by the Comptroller General of the United States authorized by any other provision of law. Any person who publishes, divulges, discloses, or makes known in any manner or to any extent not authorized by Federal law or regulations any information obtained under this paragraph shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both. Safeguards with respect to employee identification numbers (EINs) are contained in paragraph (q)(2) of this section. Safeguards with respect to Social Security numbers (SSNs) are contained in paragraph (q)(3) of this section.
