
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### Criteria for requesting information.

(1)FNS shall determine what information can be disclosed and which government agencies have access to that information based on the following criteria:

(i) Federal and State law enforcement or investigative agencies or instrumentalities administering or enforcing specified Federal and State laws, or regulations issued under those laws, have access to certain information maintained by FNS. Such agencies or instrumentalities must have among their responsibilities the enforcement of law or the investigation of suspected violations of law. However, only certain Federal entities have access to information involving SSNs and EINs in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(ii) of this section;

(ii) Except for SSNs and EINs, information provided to FNS by applicants and authorized firms participating in the FSP may be disclosed and used by qualifying Federal and State entities in accordance with paragraph (q)(1)(i) of this section. The disclosure of SSNs and EINs is limited only to qualifying Federal agencies or instrumentalities which otherwise have access to SSNs and EINs based on law and routine use. Release of information under this paragraph shall be limited to information relevant to the administration or enforcement of the specified laws and regulations, as determined by FNS;

(iii) Requests for information must be submitted in writing, including electronic communication, and must clearly indicate the specific provision of law or regulations which would be administered or enforced by access to requested information, and the relevance of the information to those purposes. If a formal agreement exists between FNS and another agency or instrumentality, individual written requests may be unnecessary. FNS may request additional information if needed to clarify a request;

(iv) Disclosure by FNS is limited to: Information about applicant stores and concerns with applications on file; information about authorized stores participating in the FSP; and information about unauthorized entities or individuals illegally accepting or redeeming SNAP benefits;

(v) Requests for information disclosure by FNS may involve a specific store or concern, or some or all stores and concerns covered by paragraph (q)(1)(iv) of this section. In addition, FNS may sign agreements allowing certain government entities direct access to appropriate FNS data, with access to EINs and SSNs limited only to other Federal agencies and instrumentalities that otherwise have access to such numbers.
