
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### Public and Private Nonprofit Homeless Meal Providers.

(r)FNS shall authorize as retail food stores, those public and private nonprofit homeless meal providers which apply and qualify for authorization to accept SNAP benefits from homless SNAP recipients. Such meal providers must be public or private nonprofit organizations as defined by the Internal Revenue Service (I.R.C. 501(c)(3)), must serve meals that include food purchased by the provider, must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and must be approved by an appropriate State or local agency, pursuant to ยง 272.9. Public and private nonprofit homeless meal providers shall be responsible for obtaining approval from an appropriate State or local agency and shall provide written documentation of such approval to FNS prior to approval of the meal provider's application for authorization. (If such approval is subsequently withdrawn, FNS authorization shall be withdrawn). Public and private nonprofit homeless meal providers serving meals which consist wholly of donated foods shall not be eligible for authorization. In an area in which FNS, in consultation with the Department's Office of Inspector General, finds evidence that the authorization of a public and private nonprofit homeless meal provider would damage SNAP's integrity, FNS shall limit the participation of that public and private nonprofit homeless meal provider, unless FNS determines that the establishment or shelter is the only one of its kind serving the area.

(s) Each authorized retail food store shall post in a suitable and conspicuous location in the store a sign designed and provided by FNS which provides information on how persons may report abuses they have observed in the operation of the program. Refusal or repeated failure to display such a sign by an authorized retail food store may result in the withdrawal of the firm's approval to participate in the program.
