
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### Social Security numbers.

(3)(i) The Department may have access to SSNs obtained pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a list of names and SSNs of stores and concerns for use in determining those applicants who previously have been sanctioned or convicted under section 12 or 15 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, (7 U.S.C. 2021 or 2024). The Department may use this determination of sanctions and convictions in administering sections 12 and 15 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, (7 U.S.C. 2018, 2021). The Department also may share SSNs with other Federal agencies and instrumentalities if the Department determines that such sharing would assist in verifying and matching such information against information maintained by the Department or such other agency or instrumentality. Any such information shared pursuant to this paragraph shall be used for the purpose of effective administration and enforcement of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or for the purpose of investigating violations of other Federal laws or enforcing such laws.

(ii) The only persons permitted access to SSNs obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are officers and employees of the United States, who otherwise have access, and whose duties or responsibilities require access to the SSNs for the administration or enforcement of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or for the purpose of investigating violations of other Federal laws or enforcing such laws. Such access shall also include companies or individuals under contract for the operation by, or on behalf of FNS to accomplish an FNS function.

(iii) The Department shall provide for all additional safeguards that the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration determines to be necessary or appropriate to protect the confidentiality of the SSNs. The Department may also provide for any additional safeguards to protect the confidentiality of SSNs so long as these safeguards are consistent with any safeguards determined by the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration to be necessary or appropriate.

(iv) The SSNs and related records that are obtained or maintained by authorized persons are confidential, and no officer or employee shall disclose any such SSN or related record except as authorized. The term "related record" means any record, list, or compilation that indicates, directly or indirectly, the identity of any individual with respect to whom a request for a SSN is maintained. For purposes of paragraph (r)(3)(iv) of this section the term "officer or employee" includes a former officer or employee.

(v) The sanctions under sections 7213(a) (1), (2) and (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 will apply with respect to the unauthorized, willful disclosure to any person of SSNs and related records obtained or maintained in the same manner and to the same extent as sections 7213(a) (1), (2) and (3) apply with respect to unauthorized disclosures of returns and return information described in those sections. The sanction under section 7213(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 will apply with respect to the willful offer of any item of material value in exchange for any SSN or related record in the same manner and to the same extent as section 7213(a)(4) applies with respect to offers (in exchange for any return or return information) described in that section.
