
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.2 Participation of retail food stores.
####### Equal treatment for coupon customers.,voluntary,purchased

(b)Coupons shall be accepted for eligible foods at the same prices and on the same terms and conditions applicable to cash purchases of the same foods at the same store except that tax shall not be charged on eligible foods purchased with coupons. However, nothing in this part may be construed as authorizing FNS to specify the prices at which retail food stores may sell food. However, public or private nonprofit homeless meal providers may only requestuse of SNAP benefits from homeless SNAP recipients and may not request such household using SNAP benefits to pay more than the average cost of the foodby the public or private nonprofit homeless meal provider contained in a meal served to the patrons of the meal service. For purposes of this section, "average cost" is determined by averaging food costs over a period of up to one calendar month. Voluntary payments by SNAP recipients in excess of such costs may be accepted by the meal providers. The value of donated foods from any source shall not be considered in determining the amount to be requested from SNAP recipients. All indirect costs, such as those incurred in the acquisition, storage, or preparation of the foods used in meals shall also be excluded. In addition, if others have the option of eating free or making a monetary donation, SNAP recipients must be provided the same option of eating free or making a donation in money or SNAP benefits. No retail food store may single out coupon users for special treatment in any way.
