
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### Employer identification numbers.

(2)(i) The Department may have access to the EINs obtained pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a list of the names and EINs of the stores and concerns for use in determining those applicants who previously have been sanctioned or convicted under sections 12 and 15 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, (7 U.S.C. 2021 or 2024). The Department also may share EINs with other Federal agencies and instrumentalities that otherwise have access to EINs if the Department determines that such sharing would assist in verifying and matching such information against information maintained by such other agency or instrumentality. Any such information shared pursuant to this paragraph may be used by the Department or such other agency or instrumentality for the purpose of effective administration and enforcement of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or for the purpose of investigating violations of other Federal laws or enforcing such laws. See Treas. Reg. ยง 301.6109-2 (b) and (c) (26 CFR 301.6109-2 (b) and (c)).

(ii) The only persons permitted access to EINs obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are officers and employees of the United States, who otherwise have access and whose duties or responsibilities require access to the EINs for the administration or enforcement of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or for the purpose of investigating violations of other Federal laws or enforcing such laws. See Treas. Reg. ยง 301.6109-2(d)(1) (26 CFR 301.6109-2(d)(1)).

(iii) The Department or any agency or instrumentality of the United States shall provide for any additional safeguards that the Secretary of the Treasury determines to be necessary or appropriate to protect the confidentiality of the EINs. The Department may also provide for any additional safeguards to protect the confidentiality of EINs so long as these safeguards are consistent with any safeguards determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be necessary or appropriate. See Treas. Reg. ยง 301.6109-2(d)(2) (26 CFR 301.6109-2(d)(2)).
