
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### § 278.1 Approval of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns.
####### officer or employee

(iv) EINs maintained by the Department or maintained by any agency or instrumentality of the United States pursuant to § 278.1(b)(5) are confidential. Except as provided in paragraph (q)(2)(ii) of this section above, no officer or employee of the United States who has or had access to any such EIN may disclose that number in any manner. For purposes of paragraph (q)(2)(iv) of this section the termincludes a former officer or employee. See Treas. Reg. § 301.6109-2(e) (26 CFR 301.6109(e)).

(v) Sections 7213(a) (1), (2) and (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 apply with respect to the unauthorized, willful disclosure to any person of EINs obtained by the Department pursuant to § 278.1(b)(5) in the same manner and to the same extent as sections 7213(a) (1), (2) and (3) apply with respect to unauthorized disclosure of returns and return information described in those sections. Section 7213(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 applies with respect to the willful offer of any item of material value in exchange for any EIN obtained by the Department pursuant to § 278.1(b)(5) in the same manner and to the same extent as section 7213(a)(4) applies with respect to offers (in exchange for any return or return information) described in that section. See Treas. Reg. § 301.6109-2(f) (26 CFR 301.6109-2(f)).
