
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.5 Participation of insured financial institutions.
####### FNS use of coupons to detect violations.

(d)Regardless of any other provision in these regulations, coupons may be issued to, purchased by, or redeemed by persons authorized by FNS to use those coupons in examining and inspecting program operations, and for other purposes determined by FNS to be required for proper administration of the program. Coupons which have been so issued and used, as well as any coupons which have been issued under paragraph (g) of this section, or which FNS believes may have been issued, transferred, negotiated, used, or received in violation of this subchapter or of any applicable statute, shall at the request of FNS and on issuance of a receipt for them be turned over to FNS by the insured financial institution receiving the coupons, or by any other person to whom the request is addressed, together with any certificate(s) of redemption accompanying the coupons. Any coupons so requested shall not be eligible for redemption through Federal Reserve Banks or other collection channels. However, FNS may redeem coupons from any insured financial institution or person by payment of the face amount of the coupons upon determination by FNS that this direct redemption of coupons is warranted. FNS shall determine the proper disposition of any coupons held by FNS on completion of the examination or inspection in which the coupons were used. Claims or demands for unredeemed coupons surrendered to FNS may be mailed to the local FNS field office for the project area involved.
