
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.6 Disqualification of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns, and imposition of civil money penalties in lieu of disqualifications.
####### Charge letter,General provisions.

(b)-(1)Any firm considered for disqualification or imposition of a civil money penalty under paragraph (a) of this section or a fine as specified under paragraph (l) or (m) of this section shall have full opportunity to submit to FNS information, explanation, or evidence concerning any instances of noncompliance before FNS makes a final administrative determination. The FNS regional office shall send the firm a letter of charges before making such determination. The letter shall specify the violations or actions which FNS believes constitute a basis for disqualification or imposition of a civil money penalty or fine. The letter shall specify the violations or actions which FNS believes constitute a basis for disqualification or imposition of a civil money penalty. The letter shall inform the firm that it may respond either orally or in writing to the charges contained in the letter within 10 days of receiving the letter. The firm's response shall set forth a statement of evidence, information, or explanation concerning the specified violations or acts. The firm shall make its response, if any, to the officer in charge of the FNS field office which has responsibility for the project area in which the firm is located. In the case of a firm for which action is taken in accordance with paragraph (e)(8) of this section, the charge letter shall inform such firm that the disqualification action is not subject to administrative or judicial review, as specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
