
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### § 278.6 Disqualification of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns, and imposition of civil money penalties in lieu of disqualifications.
####### Charge letter for trafficking.

(2)(i) The charge letter shall advise a firm being considered for permanent disqualification based on evidence of trafficking as defined in § 271.2 that the firm must notify FNS if the firm desires FNS to consider the sanction of a civil money penalty in lieu of permanent disqualification. The charge letter shall also advise the firm that the permanent disqualification shall be effective immediately upon the date of receipt of the notice of determination, regardless of whether a request for review is filed in accordance with part 279 of this chapter. If the disqualification is reversed through administrative or judicial review, the Secretary shall not be liable for the value of any sales lost during the disqualification period. Firms that request and are determined eligible for a civil money penalty in lieu of permanent disqualification for trafficking may continue to participate in the program pending review and shall not be required to pay the civil money penalty pending appeal of the trafficking determination action.

(ii) Firms that request consideration of a civil money penalty in lieu of a permanent disqualification for trafficking shall have the opportunity to submit to FNS information and evidence as specified in § 278.6(i), that establishes the firm's eligibility for a civil money penalty in lieu of a permanent disqualification in accordance with the criteria included in § 278.6(i). This information and evidence shall be submitted within 10 days, as specified in § 278.6(b)(1).

(iii) If a firm fails to request consideration for a civil money penalty in lieu of a permanent disqualification for trafficking and submit documentation and evidence of its eligibility within the 10 days specified in § 278.6(b)(1), the firm shall not be eligible for such a penalty.
