
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 278.6 Disqualification of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns, and imposition of civil money penalties in lieu of disqualifications.
####### Notifying the firm of civil money penalties for hardship and transfer of ownership.

(h)A firm has 15 days from the date the FNS regional office notifies the firm in writing in which to pay the civil money penalty, or to notify the regional office in writing of its intent to pay in installments as specified by the regional office. The firm must present to FNS a collateral bond or irrevocable letter of credit as specified in ยง 278.1(b)(4), within the same 15-day period. The civil money penalty must be paid in full by the end of the period for which the firm would have been disqualified. FNS shall:

(1) Disqualify the firm for the period determined to be appropriate under paragraph (e) of this section if the firm refuses to pay any of the civil money penalty;

(2) Disqualify the firm for a period corresponding to the unpaid part of the civil money penalty if the firm does not pay the civil money penalty in full or in installments as specified by the FNS regional office; or

(3) Disqualify the firm for the prescribed period if the firm does not present a collateral bond or irrevocable letter of credit within the required 15 days. Any payment on a civil money penalty which have been received by FNS shall be returned to the firm. If the firm presents the required bond or irrevocable letter of credit during the disqualification period, the civil money penalty may be reinstated for the duration of the disqualification period.
