
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 278 - PARTICIPATION OF RETAIL FOOD STORES, WHOLESALE FOOD CONCERNS AND INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
###### § 278.6 Disqualification of retail food stores and wholesale food concerns, and imposition of civil money penalties in lieu of disqualifications.
####### Authority to disqualify or subject to a civil money penalty.

(a)FNS may disqualify any authorized retail food store or authorized wholesale food concern from further participation in the program if the firm fails to comply with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or this part. Such disqualification shall result from a finding of a violation on the basis of evidence that may include facts established through on-site investigations, inconsistent redemption data, evidence obtained through a transaction report under an electronic benefit transfer system, or the disqualification of a firm from the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC), as specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section. Disqualification shall be for a period of 6 months to 5 years for the firm's first sanction; for period of 12 months to 10 years for a firm's second sanction; and disqualification shall be permanent for a disqualification based on paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Any firm which has been disqualified and which wishes to be reinstated at the end of the period of disqualification, or at any later time, shall file a new application under § 278.1 so that FNS may determine whether reauthorization is appropriate. The application may be filed no earlier than 10 days before the end of the period of disqualification. FNS may, in lieu of a disqualification, subject a firm to a civil money penalty of up to an amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(i) of this title for each violation if FNS determines that a disqualification would cause hardship to participating households. FNS may impose a civil money penalty of up to an amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(ii) of this title for each violation in lieu of a permanent disqualification for trafficking, as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section.
