
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 281 - ADMINISTRATION OF SNAP ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 281.2 Administration.
####### Qualification.

(a)(1) The appropriate ITO of an established Indian reservation will qualify for participation under the provisions of this part, when that ITO files an application which demonstrates the status of an area as an established reservation, unless FNS determines that such area(s) does not qualify as a reservation, as that term is defined in these regulations. For purposes of this part, established reservation means the geographically defined area(s) currently recognized and established by Federal or State treaty or by Federal statute whereby such geographically defined area(s) is set aside for the use of Indians. Where such established areas exist, the appropriate ITO is presumed to exercise governmental jurisdiction, unless otherwise determined by FNS:

(2) The appropriate ITO for other areas, in order to qualify as reservations for the provisions of this part, must show to FNS:

(i) That the ITO exercises governmental jurisdiction over a geographic area(s) which enjoys legal recognition from the Federal or a State government and is set aside for the use of Indians.

(ii) A clear and precise description of the boundaries of such geographic area(s).

(3) Otherwise qualified areas for which the responsible ITO has requested operation of the Food Distribution Program alone in accordance with ยง 283.4, rather than concurrent operation with SNAP, shall be exempt from the requirements of this part, and shall not be considered SNAP areas for any other purposes of this subchapter. Indian tribal households (households in which at least one adult member is recognized by the appropriate ITO as a tribal member) resident in these areas shall be ineligible for SNAP benefits. However, non-Indian tribal households resident in these areas may apply and be certified for SNAP benefits at the State agency's certification office which would otherwise service the area. Otherwise qualified areas for which the responsible ITO has requested operation of the food distribution Program concurrently with SNAP or areas within the reservation where FNS has determined that concurrent operation is necessary in accordance with ยง 283.3(b)(2) shall be subject to all requirements of this part and subchapter.
