
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 281 - ADMINISTRATION OF SNAP ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 281.2 Administration.
####### State plan.

(b)In addition to the public comment requirements in ยง 272.2, the State agency shall submit for comment its service plans, and all other portions of the State plan that directly pertains to the operation of the Program for residents on the reservation to the responsible ITO for reservations that qualify under paragraph (a) of this section. The ITO shall have 30 days to provide comments in writing to the State agency. The State agency shall, if appropriate and to the extent practicable, incorporate into its plans any suggestions made by the ITO. Additionally, the State agency shall administer SNAP in a manner that is responsive to the needs of the Indians on the reservation, as determined by ongoing consultation with the ITO and by other means, regarding such areas of program operation as project area designation, operating procedures, locations and hours of certification and issuance, staffing and corrective action plans. The State agency shall maintain records of consultations on State plans and ongoing consultations held with ITO's for review by FNS. FNS shall study these records as part of reviews in accord with ยง 281.3 and Management Evaluation Reviews of the State agency.
