
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 281 - ADMINISTRATION OF SNAP ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
###### ยง 281.4 Determining Indian tribal organization capability.
####### Civil rights assurance.

(vi)The ITO shall provide FNS an assurance that the ITO shall comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (Pub. L. 94-135), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 99-112), section 504), and section 11(c) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and all pertinent regulations or directives to the effect that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of sex, race, color, age, political belief, religion, handicap, or national origin, be denied benefits or otherwise be subject to discrimination under SNAP. Where appropriate, FNS shall consider the adequacy of measures taken by the ITO to ensure that there shall be no discrimination.

(2) Prior to the determination of ITO capability, FNS shall consult with other sources such as the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to obtain any information relevant to the capability determination.

(3) If it is determined by FNS, after consultation with other sources such as the BIA, that the ITO is not capable of operating an efficient and effective SNAP, the agency of the State government shall continue to operate the Program on the reservation in accordance with ยง 281.3.
