
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 283 - APPEALS OF QUALITY CONTROL ("QC") CLAIMS
###### Subpart B - Appeals of QC Claims of $50,000 or More
####### § 283.17 Post-hearing procedure.
######## Motion for reconsideration.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 30 days of service of the initial decision. If served by mail, the time for filing a motion for reconsideration will be 5 days longer in accordance with § 283.22.

(2) Every such motion must set forth the mattes claimed to have been erroneously decided and the basis of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.

(3) Responses to such motions shall be filed in accordance with § 283.18(d).

(4) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.

(5) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.

(6) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final notice of determination for purposes of judicial review and shall become effective 30 days after service unless review by the Judicial Officer is sought in accordance with § 283.20.

(7) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final notice of determination for purposes of judicial review and shall become effective 30 days after service unless review by the Judicial Officer is sought in accordance with § 283.20.
