
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Supplemental Nutrition Assistance and Food Distribution Program
##### PART 283 - APPEALS OF QUALITY CONTROL ("QC") CLAIMS
###### Subpart B - Appeals of QC Claims of $50,000 or More
####### ยง 283.20 Review by the Judicial Officer.
######## Filing of review petition.

(a)(1) Within 30 days after service of the ALJ's initial decision, or any part thereof, any party may seek Judicial Officer review of such decision by filing a review petition with the Hearing Clerk. However, if another party files a motion for reconsideration under ยง 283.17(d), consideration of the review petition shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration. If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a review petition may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.

(2) As provided in ยง 283.15(h), objections made before the ALJ regarding evidence or regarding a limitation on examination or cross-examination or other ruling may be relied upon in a Judicial Officer review.

(3) Each issue set forth in the review petition, and the arguments thereon, shall be plainly and concisely stated; and shall contain detailed citations to the record, statutes, regulations or authorities being relied upon in support thereof. A brief in support may be filed simultaneously with the review petition.
