
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations
##### PART 295 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION AND RECORDS TO THE PUBLIC
###### ยง 295.7 Indexes.

5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) also requires an index of the materials required to be made available for public inspection and copying be published quarterly. Copies of this Index for FNS materials will be maintained for public inspection and copying during regular office hours in FNS Library, Room 810, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22302-1500. Free copies of the current index may be obtained by writing or visiting any of the FNS offices listed in the local telephone directory or those listed below:

(a) Records Management Officer, Information Technology Division, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22302-1500.

(b) Director, Financial Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 300 Corporate Blvd., Mercer Corporate Park, Robbinsville, NJ 08691-1518.

(c) Director, Financial Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 77 Forsyth Street, SW, Atlanta, GA 30303-3427.

(d) Director, Financial and Administrative Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 60604-3507.

(e) Director, Financial Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 1100 Commerce St., Dallas, Texas 75242-9980.

(f) Director, Financial Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 550 Kearney St., San Francisco, CA 94108-2518.

(g) Director, Financial Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 10 Causeway Street, Boston, MA 02222-1069.

(h) Director, Financial and Administrative Management, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 1244 Speer Blvd., Denver, CO 80204-3581.
