
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart A - Preemption and Special Need Requests
###### ยง 301.1-3 Action on special need requests.

(a) Upon receipt of a complete special need request submitted in accordance with ยง 301.1-2, APHIS will publish a notice in theto inform the public of the special need request and to make the request and its supporting information available for review and comment for at least 60 days.

(b) Following the close of the comment period, APHIS will publish another notice announcing the Administrator's decision to either grant or deny the special need request. The Administrator's determination will be based upon the evaluation of the information submitted by the State or political subdivision of a State in support of its request and would take into account any comments received.

(1) If the Administrator grants the special need request, the State or political subdivision of a State will be authorized to impose only the specific prohibitions or restrictions identified in the request and approved by APHIS. APHIS will coordinate with the State, or with the State on behalf of the political subdivision of the State, to ensure that the additional prohibitions or restrictions are in accord with the special need exception granted by the Administrator.

(2) If the Administrator denies the special need request, the State or political subdivision of a State will be notified in writing of the reason for the denial and may submit any additional information the State or political subdivision of a State may have in order to request a reconsideration.

(c) If granted, a special need exception will be applicable for 2 years, at the end of which the State or political subdivision of a State must submit a request for renewal of the exception. A special need renewal request must address the same criteria as the initial request submitted under ยง 301.1-2 and must show that a special need still exists that warrants the continuation of the special need exception. The renewal must be submitted no sooner than 6 months and no later than 3 months prior to the end of the 2-year applicability period for the initial exception. Once a special need renewal request has been received, APHIS will follow the same notice and comment process outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. If, by the end of the 2-year applicability period, the State or political subdivision of a State does not submit a special need renewal request, the State's or political subdivision's special need exception will lapse and the State or political subdivision of a State will have to reapply for the special need exception.

(d) If the Administrator determines that there is a need for the withdrawal of a special need exception before the renewal date of the special need exception, the reasons for the withdrawal would be communicated to the State or to the political subdivision of the State and APHIS will publish a notice in theto inform the public of the withdrawal of the special need exception and to make the information supporting the withdrawal available for review and comment for at least 60 days. Reasons for withdrawal of approval of a special need exception may include, but are not limited to, the availability of new scientific data or changes in APHIS regulations. Following the close of the comment period, APHIS will publish another notice announcing the Administrator's decision to either withdraw or uphold the special need exception. The Administrator's determination will be based upon the evaluation of the information submitted in support of the withdrawal and would take into account any comments received.
