
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart D - Black Stem Rust
###### ยง 301.38-5 Assembly and inspection of regulated articles: issuance and cancellation of certificates.

(a) Any person, other than a person authorized to issue certificates under paragraph (c) of this section, who desires to move interstate a regulated article that must be accompanied by a certificate under ยง 301.38-4(b), shall, as far in advance of the desired interstate movement as possible (and no less than 48 hours before the desired interstate movement), request an inspectorto issue a certificate. To expedite the issuance of a certificate, an inspector may direct that the regulated articles be assembled in a manner that facilitates inspection.

(b) An inspector may issue a certificate for the interstate movement of a regulated article if he or she:

(1) Determines, upon examination, that the regulated article may be moved interstate in accordance with this subpart; and

(2) Determines that the regulated article may be moved interstate in accordance with all other Federal domestic plant quarantines and regulations applicable to the regulated article.

(c) Certificates for interstate movement of regulated articles may be issued by an inspector to a person operating under a compliance agreement for use with subsequent shipments of regulated articles to facilitate their movement. A person operating under a compliance agreement must make the determinations set forth in paragraph (b) of this section before shipping any regulated articles.

(d) Any certificate that has been issued may be withdrawn by an inspector, orally or in writing, if he or she determines that the holder of the certificate has not complied with the conditions of this subpart for the use of the certificate. If the withdrawal is oral, the inspector will confirm the withdrawal and the reasons for the withdrawal, in writing, within 20 days of oral notification of the withdrawal. Any person whose certificate has been withdrawn may appeal the decision, in writing within 10 days after receiving written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certificate was wrongfully withdrawn. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. An appeal shall be granted or denied, in writing, as promptly as circumstances allow, and the reasons for the decision shall be stated. In a non-protected area, appeal shall be made to the Administrator. The Administrator shall adopt rules of practice for the hearing. The certificate will remain withdrawn pending decision of the appeal.
