
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart D - Black Stem Rust
###### ยง 301.38-6 Compliance agreements and cancellation.

(a) Any State may enter into a written compliance agreement with any person who grows or handles regulated articles in a protected area, or moves interstate regulated articles from a protected area, under which that person agrees to comply with this subpart, to provide inspectors with information concerning the source of any regulated articles acquired each year, and to prevent the unauthorized use of certificates issued for future use under the compliance agreement.

(b) A compliance agreement may be cancelled by an inspector, orally or in writing, whenever he or she determines that the person who has entered into the compliance agreement has failed to comply with the agreement or this subpart. If the cancellation is oral, the cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation will be confirmed, in writing, within 20 days of oral notification of the cancellation. Any person whose compliance agreement has been cancelled may appeal the decision, in writing, within 10 days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully cancelled. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. An appeal shall be granted or denied, in writing, as promptly as circumstances allow, and the reasons for the decision shall be stated. In a non-protected area, appeal shall be made to the Administrator. The Administrator shall adopt rules of practice for the hearing. The compliance agreement will remain cancelled pending decision of the appeal.
