
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart E - Gypsy Moth
###### ยง 301.45-6 Compliance agreement and cancellation thereof.

(a) Any person engaged in the business of growing, handling, or moving regulated articles may enter into a compliance agreement to facilitate the movement of such articles under this subpart. Qualified certified applicators must enter into compliance agreements, in accordance with the definition of qualified certified applicator in ยง 301.45-1. A compliance agreement shall specify safeguards necessary to prevent spread of the gypsy moth, such as disinfestation practices or application of chemical materials in accordance with the treatment manual and part 305 of this chapter. Compliance agreement forms may be obtained from the Administrator or an inspector.

(b) Any compliance agreement may be canceled by the inspector who is supervising its enforcement, orally or in writing, whenever the inspector finds that such person has failed to comply with the conditions of the agreement. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons therefore shall be confirmed in writing, as promptly as circumstances permit. Any person whose compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within ten (10) days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully canceled. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for such decision, as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
