
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart E - Gypsy Moth
###### ยง 301.45-12 Disqualification of qualified certified applicator to issue certificates.

(a) Any qualified certified applicator may be disqualified from issuing certificates by the Administrator if he determines that one of the following has occurred:

(1) Such person is not certified by a State and/or the Federal government as a commercial certified applicator under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136i) in a category allowing the application of restricted use pesticides.

(2) Noncompliance with any of the provisions of this subpart or with stipulations agreed on in the compliance agreement between the certified applicator and the Administrator.

(b) The disqualification is effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier. The reasons for the disqualification shall be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, unless contained in the written notification. Any qualified certified applicator who is disqualified from issuing certificates may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within ten (10) days after receiving written notification of the disqualification. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the disqualification was a wrongful action. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for his decision as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
