
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart E - Gypsy Moth
###### ยง 301.45-2 Authorization to designate and terminate designation of quarantined areas.
####### www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/gypsy-moth/ct_gypsy_moth

(c) Temporary designation of areas as quarantined areas. The Administrator or an inspector may temporarily designate any area in any State as a quarantined area in accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. An inspector will give written notice of the designation to the owner or person in possession of the area and thereafter, the interstate movement of any regulated article from such areas is subject to the applicable provisions of this subpart. As soon as practicable, each quarantined area will be added to the list ator the designation will be terminated by the Administrator or an authorized inspector, and notice thereof shall be given to the owner or person in possession of the areas.

(d) Termination of designation as a quarantined area. The Administrator shall terminate the designation of any area as a quarantined area whenever the Administrator determines that the area no longer requires designation under the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. APHIS will publish a notice in theinforming the public that the change has occurred.
