
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart F - Japanese Beetle
###### Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.48-4 Conditions governing the interstate movement of regulated articles from quarantined States.

A regulated article may be moved interstate from a regulated airport to any Statedesignated in ยง 301.48(b) only if:

(a) An inspector, upon visual inspection of the airport and/or the aircraft, determines that the regulated article does not present a threat to spread the Japanese beetle because adult beetle populations are not present; or

(b) The aircraft is opened and loaded only while it is enclosed inside a hangar that an inspector has determined to be free of and safeguarded against Japanese beetle; or

(c) The aircraft is loaded during the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. only or lands and departs during those hours and, in either situation, is kept completely closed while on the ground during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; or

(d) If opened and loaded between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., the aircraft is inspected, treated, and safeguarded. Inspection, treatment, and safeguarding must be done either under a compliance agreement in accordance with ยง 301.48-8 or under the direct supervision of an inspector. On a case-by-case basis, inspectors will determine which of the following conditions, and any supplemental conditions deemed necessary by the Administrator to prevent the spread of Japanese beetle, are required:

(1) All openings of the aircraft must be closed or safeguarded during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. by exclusionary devices or by other means approved by the Administrator.

(2) All cargo containers that have not been safeguarded in a protected area must be inspected immediately prior to and during the loading process. All personnel must check their clothing immediately prior to entering the aircraft. All Japanese beetles found must be removed and destroyed.

(3) All areas around doors and hatches or other openings in the aircraft must be inspected prior to removing the exclusionary devices. All Japanese beetles found must be removed and destroyed. All doors and hatches must be closed immediately after the exclusionary devices are moved away from the aircraft.

(4) Aircraft must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter no more than 1 hour before loading. Particular attention should be paid to the ball mat area and the holes around the main entrance. The aircraft must then be aerated under safeguard conditions as required by part 305 of this chapter.

(5) Aircraft treatment records must be maintained by the applicator completing or supervising the treatment for a period of 2 years. These records must be provided upon request for review by an inspector. Treatment records shall include the pesticide used, the date of application, the location where the pesticide was applied (airport and aircraft), the amount of pesticide applied, and the name of the applicator.

(6) When a designated aircraft is replaced with an alternate one just prior to departure (the procedure known as "tail swapping"), the alternate aircraft must be inspected and all Japanese beetles must be removed. The aircraft must be safeguarded by closing all openings and hatches or by equipping the aircraft with exclusionary devices until the aircraft is ready for use. During loading, all treatment and safeguard requirements applicable to regularly scheduled aircraft must be implemented.

(7) Aircraft may be retreated in the noninfested State if live Japanese beetles are found.

(8) Notification of unscheduled commercial flights and of all military flights must be given at least 1 hour before departure to the appropriate person in the destination airport of any of the States listed in ยง 301.48(b). Notification of arriving military flights should also be given to base commanders to facilitate the entrance of Federal and/or State inspectors onto the base if necessary.
