
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart H - Asian Longhorned Beetle
###### ยง 301.51-3 Quarantined areas.
####### www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/asian-longhorned-beetle/asian-longhorned-beetle.,www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/sphd.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator will list as a quarantined area each State or portion of a State in which the Asian longhorned beetle is present, in which the Administrator has reason to believe that the Asian longhorned beetle is present, or that the Administrator considers necessary to regulate because of its inseparability for quarantine enforcement purposes from localities where the Asian longhorned beetle has been found. The Administrator will publish a list of all quarantined areas (the quarantine list) on the Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) website atThe list will include the date that the list was last updated. Lists of all quarantined areas may also be obtained by request from any local PPQ office; local offices are listed in telephone directories and on the internet atAfter a change is made to the list of quarantined areas, APHIS will publish a notice in theinforming the public that the change has occurred and describing the change to the quarantined areas. Less than an entire State will be designated as a quarantined area only if the Administrator determines that:

(1) The State has adopted and is enforcing restrictions on the intrastate movement of regulated articles that are equivalent to those imposed by this subpart on the interstate movement of regulated articles; and

(2) The designation of less than an entire State as a quarantined area will be adequate to prevent the artificial interstate spread of the Asian longhorned beetle.

(b) The Administrator may temporarily designate any nonquarantined area as a quarantined area in accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The Administrator will give written notice of this designation to owner or person in possession of the nonquarantined area, or in the case of publicly owned land, to the person responsible for the management of nonquarantined area. Thereafter, the interstate movement of any regulated articles from an area temporarily designated as quarantined area is subject to this subpart. As soon as practicable, this area will either be added to the quarantine list or the Administrator will terminate the designation. The owner or, in the case of publicly owned land, the person responsible for the management of, an area for which the designation has terminated will be given written notice of the termination as soon as practicable.
