
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 6 - IMPORT QUOTAS AND FEES
#### Subpart B - Dairy Tariff-Rate Quota Import Licensing
##### ยง 6.23 Eligibility to apply for a license.
###### Exceptions.

(c)(1) A licensee that fails in a quota year to enter at least 85 percent of the amount of an article permitted under a license shall not be eligible to receive a license for the same article from the same country for the next quota year. For the purpose of this paragraph, the amount of an article permitted under the license will exclude any amounts surrendered pursuant to ยง 6.26(a), but will include any additional allocations received pursuant to ยง 6.26(b).

(2) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section will not apply where the licensee demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Licensing Authority that the failure resulted from breach by a carrier of its contract of carriage, breach by a supplier of its contract to supply the article, act of God or force majeure.

(3) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section may not apply in the case of historical or nonhistorical licenses, where the licensee demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Licensing Authority that the country specified on the license maintains or permits an export monopoly to control the dairy articles concerned and the licensee petitions the Licensing Authority to waive this requirement. The licensee shall submit evidence that the country maintains an export monopoly as defined in this paragraph. For the purposes of this paragraph "export monopoly" means a privilege vested in one or more persons consisting of the exclusive right to carry on the exportation of any article of dairy products from a country to the United States.

(4) The Licensing Authority will not issue a nonhistorical license (Appendix 2) for an article from a country during a quota year to an applicant who is affiliated with another applicant to whom the Licensing Authority is issuing a non-historical license for the same article from the same country for that quota year. Further, the Licensing Authority will not issue a nonhistorical license for butter to an applicant who is affiliated with another applicant to whom the Licensing Authority is issuing a historical butter license of 57,000 kilograms or greater. For the purpose of this paragraph, an applicant will be deemed affiliated with another applicant if:

(i) The applicant is the spouse, brother, sister, parent, child or grandchild of such other applicant;

(ii) The applicant is the spouse, brother, sister, parent, child or grandchild of an individual who owns or controls such other applicant;

(iii) The applicant is owned or controlled by the spouse, brother, sister, parent, child or grandchild of an individual who owns or controls such other applicant.

(iv) Both applicants are 5 percent or more owned or directly or indirectly controlled, by the same person;

(v) The applicant, or a person who owns or controls the applicant, benefits from a trust that controls such other applicant.

(5) The Licensing Authority will not issue a nonhistorical license (Appendix 2) for an article from a country during a quota year to an applicant who is associated with another applicant to whom the Licensing Authority is issuing a nonhistorical license for the same article from the same country for that quota year. Further, the Licensing Authority will not issue a nonhistorical license for butter to an applicant who is associated with another applicant to whom the Licensing Authority is issuing a historical butter license for 57,000 kilograms or greater. For the purpose of this paragraph, an applicant will be deemed associated with another applicant if:

(i) The applicant is an employee of, or is controlled by an employee of, such other applicant;

(ii) The applicant manages or is managed by such other applicant, or economically benefits, directly or indirectly, from the use of the license issued to such other applicant.

(6) The Licensing Authority will not issue a nonhistorical license for an article from a country during a quota year, for which the applicant receives a designated license.
