
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart K - South American Cactus Moth
###### ยง 301.55-5 Issuance and cancellation of certificates and limited permits.
####### Bacillus thuringiensis,kurstaki,

(5) If the regulated article was moved into the premises from another premises in a quarantined area listed in ยง 301.55-3, it was immediately placed inside the shadehouse or greenhouse and sprayed withsubsp.carbaryl, spinosad, or imidaploprid within 24 hours.

(b) An inspector will issue a limited permit for the interstate movement of a regulated article if the inspector determines that:

(1) The regulated article is to be moved interstate to a specified destination for specified handling, processing, or utilization (the destination and other conditions to be listed in the limited permit), and this interstate movement will not result in the spread of the South American cactus moth because life stages of the South American cactus moth will be destroyed by the specified handling, processing, or utilization;

(2) It is to be moved in compliance with any additional conditions that the Administrator may impose under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) in order to prevent the spread of the South American cactus moth; and

(3) It is eligible for unrestricted movement under all other Federal domestic plant quarantines and regulations applicable to the regulated article.

(c) Certificates and limited permits for the interstate movement of regulated articles may be issued by an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement. A person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a certificate or limited permit for interstate movement of a regulated article after an inspector has determined that the regulated article is eligible for a certificate or limited permit in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section.

(d) Any certificate or limited permit that has been issued may be canceled, either orally or in writing, by an inspector whenever the inspector determines that the holder of the limited permit has not complied with this subpart or any conditions imposed under this subpart. If the cancellation is oral, the cancellation will become effective immediately, and the cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation will be confirmed in writing as soon as circumstances permit. Any person whose certificate or limited permit has been canceled may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written cancellation notice. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons that the person wants the Administrator to consider in deciding the appeal. A hearing may be held to resolve a conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice for the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. As soon as practicable, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision.
