
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart L - Plum Pox
###### ยง 301.74-3 Quarantined areas.
####### www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/plum-pox/plumpox.,www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/sphd.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator will list as a quarantined area each State, or each portion of a State, in which plum pox has been detected through inspection and laboratory testing, or in which the Administrator has reason to believe that plum pox is present, or that the Administrator considers necessary to quarantine because of its inseparability for quarantine enforcement purposes from localities in which plum pox has been detected. The Administrator will publish a list of all quarantined areas (the quarantine list) on the PPQ website atThe list will include the date that the list was last updated. Lists of all quarantined areas may also be obtained by request from any local PPQ office; local offices are listed in telephone directories and on the internet atAfter a change is made to the list of quarantined areas, APHIS will publish a notice in theinforming the public that the change has occurred and describing the change to the quarantined areas. Less than an entire State will be designated as a quarantined area only if the Administrator determines that:

(1) The State has adopted and is enforcing restrictions on the intrastate movement of regulated articles that are equivalent to those imposed by this subpart on the interstate movement of regulated articles; and

(2) The designation of less than an entire State as a quarantined area will be adequate to prevent the interstate spread of plum pox.

(b) The Administrator or an inspector may temporarily designate any nonquarantined area in a State as a quarantined area in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The Administrator will give a copy of this subpart along with a written notice for the temporary designation to the owner or person in possession of the nonquarantined area. Thereafter, the interstate movement of any regulated article from an area temporarily designated as a quarantined area will be subject to this subpart. As soon as practicable, this area will be added to the quarantine list or the designation will be terminated by the Administrator or an inspector. The owner or person in possession of an area for which the quarantine designation is terminated will be given notice of the termination as soon as practicable.
