
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 6 - IMPORT QUOTAS AND FEES
#### Subpart B - Dairy Tariff-Rate Quota Import Licensing
##### ยง 6.25 Allocation of licenses.
###### Designated licenses (Appendix 3).

(d)(1) With respect to an article listed in Appendix 3, the government of the applicable country may, not later than October 31 prior to the beginning of a quota year, submit directly by email to the Licensing Authority:

(i) The names, addresses and emails of the importers that it is designating to receive licenses; and

(ii) The amount, in kilograms, of such article for which each such importer is being designated. Where quantities for designation result from both Tokyo Round concessions and Uruguay Round concessions, the designations should be made in terms of each.

(2) To the extent practicable, the Licensing Authority will issue designated licenses to those importers, and in those amounts, indicated by the government of the applicable country, provided that the importer designated meets the eligibility requirements set forth in ยง 6.23. Consistent with the international obligations of the United States, the Licensing Authority may disregard a designation if the Licensing Authority determines that the person designated is not eligible for any of the reasons set forth in ยง 6.23(c)(1) or (2).

(3) If a government of a country which negotiated in the Uruguay Round for the right to designate importers has not done so, but determines to designate importers for the next quota year, it shall indicate its intention to do so directly and in writing to the Licensing Authority not later than July 1 prior to the beginning of such next quota year. Furthermore, if a government that has designated importers for a quota year determines that it will not continue to designate importers for the next quota year, it shall so indicate directly and in writing to the Licensing Authority, not later than July 1 prior to such next quota year.
