
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart M - Citrus Canker
###### Notice of Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.75-6 Interstate movement of regulated nursery stock from a quarantined area.
######## Fortunella

(b) Kumquat (spp.) plants, with or without fruit attached, may be moved interstate from a quarantined area into any area of the United States except commercial citrus-producing areas if all of the following conditions are met:

(1) The plants are own-root-only and have not been grafted or budded;

(2) The plants are started, are grown, and have been maintained solely at the nursery from which they will be moved interstate.

(3) If the plants are not grown from seed, then the cuttings used for propagation of the plants are taken from plants located on the same nursery premises or from another nursery that is eligible to produce kumquat plants for interstate movement under the requirements of this paragraph (b). Cuttings may not be obtained from properties where citrus canker is present.

(4) All citrus plants at the nursery premises have undergone State inspection and have been found to be free of citrus canker no less than three times. The inspections must be at intervals of 30 to 45 days, with the most recent inspection being within 30 days of the date on which the plants are removed and packed for shipment.

(5) All vehicles, equipment, and other articles used in providing inspection, maintenance, or related services in the nursery must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter before entering the nursery to prevent the introduction of citrus canker. All personnel who enter the nursery to provide these services must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter before entering the nursery to prevent the introduction of citrus canker.

(6) If citrus canker is found in the nursery, all regulated plants and plant material must be removed from the nursery and all areas of the nursery's facilities where plants are grown and all associated equipment and tools used at the nursery must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter in order for the nursery to be eligible to produce kumquat plants to be moved interstate under this paragraph (b). Fifteen days after these actions are completed, the nursery may receive new kumquat seed or cuttings from a nursery that is eligible to produce kumquat plants for interstate movement under this paragraph (b).

(7) The plants, except for plants that are hermetically sealed in plastic bags before leaving the nursery, are completely enclosed in containers or vehicle compartments during movement through the quarantined area.

(8) The kumquat plants or trees are accompanied by a limited permit issued in accordance with ยง 301.75-12. The statement "Limited permit: Not for distribution in AZ, CA, HI, LA, TX, and American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands of the United States" must be displayed on a plastic or metal tag attached to each plant, or on the box or container if the plant is sealed in plastic. In addition, this statement must be displayed on the outside of any shipping containers used to transport these plants, and the limited permit must be attached to the bill of lading or other shipping document that accompanies the plants.

(c) Regulated nursery stock produced in a nursery within a quarantined area may be moved interstate to any area within the United States, if all of the following conditions are met:

(1) The nursery in which the nursery stock is produced has entered into a compliance agreement in which it agrees to meet the relevant construction standards, sourcing and certification requirements, cleaning, disinfecting, and safeguarding requirements, labeling requirements, and recordkeeping and inspection requirements specified in a PPQ protocol document. The protocol document will be provided to the person at the time he or she enters into the compliance agreement.The compliance agreement may also specify additional conditions determined by APHIS to be necessary in order to prevent the dissemination of citrus canker under which the nursery stock must be grown, maintained, and shipped in order to obtain a certificate for its movement. The compliance agreement will also specify that APHIS may amend the agreement.

(2) An inspector has determined that the nursery has adhered to all terms and conditions of the compliance agreement.

(3) The nursery stock is accompanied by a certificate issued in accordance with ยง 301.75-12.

(4) The nursery stock is completely enclosed in a sealed container that is clearly labeled with the certificate and is moved interstate in that container.

(5) A copy of the certificate is attached to the consignee's copy of the accompanying waybill.

(d) Regulated nursery stock produced in a nursery located in a quarantined area that is not eligible for movement under paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of this section may be moved interstate only for immediate export. The regulated nursery stock must be accompanied by a limited permit issued in accordance with ยง 301.75-12 and must be moved in a container sealed by APHIS directly to the port of export in accordance with the conditions of the limited permit.
