
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart M - Citrus Canker
###### Notice of Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.75-15 Funds for the replacement of commercial citrus trees.
######## How to apply for tree replacement funds.

(c)The form necessary to apply for funds to replace commercial citrus trees may be obtained from any local citrus canker eradication program office in Florida, or from the USDA Citrus Canker Eradication Program, 6901 West Sunrise Boulevard, Plantation, FL 33313. The completed application should be accompanied by a copy of the public order directing the destruction of the trees and its accompanying inventory that describes the number and the variety of trees removed. Your completed application must be sent to the USDA Citrus Canker Eradication Program, Attn: Commercial Tree Replacement Program, c/o Division of Plant Industry, 3027 Lake Alfred Road, Winter Haven, FL 33881. Claims for trees destroyed on or before October 16, 2000, must have been received on or before December 15, 2000. Claims for trees destroyed after October 16, 2000, must be received within 60 days after the destruction of the trees. The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, approve the consideration of late claims when it appears that the claim was late through no fault of the owner of the trees, in the opinion of the Administrator. However, any request for consideration of a late claim must be submitted to the Administrator on or before August 19, 2002 for trees destroyed on or before August 17, 2001, and within 1 year after the destruction of the trees for trees destroyed after August 17, 2001.
