
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 6 - IMPORT QUOTAS AND FEES
#### Subpart B - Dairy Tariff-Rate Quota Import Licensing
##### ยง 6.33 License fee.

(a) A fee will be assessed each quota year for each license to defray the Department's costs of administering the licensing system. To the extent practicable, the fee will be announced by the Licensing Authority in a notice published in theno later than August 31 of the year preceding the quota year for which the fee is assessed.

(b) The license fee for each license issued is due and payable in full no later than March 15 of the year for which the license is issued. The fee for any license issued after March 15 of any quota year is due and payable in full no later than 10 days from the date of issuance of the license. Fee payments are payable to the Treasurer of the United States and shall be made solely utilizing the electronic software designated for the purpose by the Licensing Authority as provided in ยง 6.36(b).

(c) If the license fees for all licenses issued to a licensee are not paid by the final payment date, a hold will be placed on the use of all licenses issued to the licensee and no articles will be permitted entry under those licenses. The Licensing Authority shall send a warning by email advising the licensee that if payment is not made in accordance with ยง 6.36(b) and received within 10 calendar days from the date of the email, all licenses issued to that licensee will be revoked. Where the license at issue is a historical license, this will result, pursuant to ยง 6.23(b), in the person's loss of historical eligibility for such license.
