
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart M - Citrus Canker
###### Notice of Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.75-16 Payments for the recovery of lost production income.
######## How to apply for lost production payments.

(c)The form necessary to apply for lost production payments may be obtained from any local citrus canker eradication program office in Florida, or from the USDA Citrus Canker Eradication Program, 6901 West Sunrise Boulevard, Plantation, FL 33313. The completed application should be accompanied by a copy of the public order directing the destruction of the trees and its accompanying inventory that describes the acreage, number, and the variety of trees removed. Your completed application must be sent to the USDA Citrus Canker Eradication Program, Attn: Lost Production Payments Program, c/o Division of Plant Industry, 3027 Lake Alfred Road, Winter Haven, FL 33881. Claims for losses attributable to the destruction of trees on or before the effective date of this rule must be received on or before September 17, 2001. Claims for losses attributable to the destruction of trees after the effective date of this rule must be received within 60 days after the destruction of the trees. The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, approve the consideration of late claims when the circumstances appear, in the opinion of the Administrator, to warrant such consideration. However, any request for consideration of a late claim must be submitted to the Administrator on or before July 18, 2002 for trees destroyed on or before July 18, 2001, and within 1 year after the destruction of the trees for trees destroyed after July 18, 2001.
