
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart N - Citrus Greening and Asian Citrus Psyllid
###### ยง 301.76-5 General conditions governing the issuance of any certificate or limited permit; provisions for cancellation of a certificate or limited permit.
####### Limited permits.

(b)In addition to all other relevant conditions within this subpart, an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a limited permit for the interstate movement of a regulated article only if the regulated article:

(1) Is to be moved interstate to a specified destination for specified handling, processing, or utilization (the destination and other conditions to be listed in the limited permit) and this movement of the regulated article will not result in the spread of citrus greening or the Asian citrus psyllid;

(2) Is to be moved in compliance with any additional emergency conditions the Administrator may impose under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) to prevent the spread of citrus greening and the Asian citrus psyllid; and

(3) Is eligible for interstate movement under all other Federal domestic plant quarantines and regulations applicable to the article.

(c) Certificates and limited permits for the interstate movement of a regulated article may be issued by an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement. A person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a certificate for the interstate movement of a regulated article after he or she has determined that the article is eligible for a certificate in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and all other relevant conditions of this subpart. A person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a limited permit for interstate movement of a regulated article after he or she has determined that the article is eligible for a limited permit in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and all other relevant conditions of this subpart.

(d) Any certificate or limited permit that has been issued may be withdrawn, either orally or in writing, by an inspector if he or she determines that the holder of the certificate or limited permit has not complied with all of the provisions in this subpart or has not complied with all the conditions contained in the certificate or limited permit. If the withdrawal is oral, the withdrawal and the reasons for the withdrawal will be confirmed in writing as soon as circumstances allow. Any person whose certificate or limited permit has been withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certificate or limited permit was wrongfully withdrawn. As promptly as circumstances allow, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice concerning a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.

(e) Unless specific provisions exist in ยง 301.76-6 or ยง 301.76-7 to allow the interstate movement of a certain regulated article, the interstate movement of that article is prohibited.
