
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart N - Citrus Greening and Asian Citrus Psyllid
###### ยง 301.76-8 Compliance agreements and cancellation.

(a) Any person involved in the growing, maintaining, processing, handling, packing, treating, or moving of regulating articles from areas quarantined for citrus greening or Asian citrus psyllid may enter into a compliance agreement when an inspector determines that the person understands this subpart, agrees to comply with its provisions, and agrees to comply with all the provisions contained in the compliance agreement. The person must also agree to maintain and offer for inspection such records as are necessary to demonstrate continual adherence to the requirements of the regulations and the provisions of the compliance agreement.

(b) Any compliance agreement may be canceled, either orally or in writing, by an inspector whenever the inspector finds that the person who has entered into the compliance agreement has failed to comply with this subpart, or any term or condition of the compliance agreement itself. If the cancellation is oral, the cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation will be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision, in writing, within 10 days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongly canceled. As promptly as circumstances allow, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice concerning a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
