
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart N - Citrus Greening and Asian Citrus Psyllid
###### ยง 301.76-7 Additional conditions for issuance of certificates and limited permits for regulated articles moved interstate from areas quarantined for citrus greening.
####### Additional conditions for the issuance of a certificate; regulated nursery stock produced within a nursery located in the quarantined area.

(a)In addition to the general conditions for issuance of a certificate contained in ยง 301.76-5(a), an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a certificate for interstate movement of regulated nursery stock to any State if all of the following conditions are met:

(1) The nursery in which the nursery stock is produced has entered into a compliance agreement with APHIS in which it agrees to meet the relevant construction standards, sourcing and certification requirements, cleaning, disinfecting, and safeguarding requirements, labeling requirements, and recordkeeping and inspection requirements specified in a PPQ protocol document. The protocol document will be provided to the person at the time he or she enters into the compliance agreement.The compliance agreement may also specify additional conditions determined by APHIS to be necessary in order to prevent the dissemination of citrus greening under which the nursery stock must be grown, maintained, and shipped in order to obtain a certificate for its movement. The compliance agreement will also specify that APHIS may amend the agreement.

(2) An inspector has determined that the nursery has adhered to all terms and conditions of the compliance agreement.

(3) The nursery stock is completely enclosed in a sealed container that is clearly labeled with the certificate and is moved interstate in that container.

(4) A copy of the certificate is attached to the consignee's copy of the accompanying waybill.
