
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart N - Citrus Greening and Asian Citrus Psyllid
###### § 301.76-7 Additional conditions for issuance of certificates and limited permits for regulated articles moved interstate from areas quarantined for citrus greening.
####### Additional conditions for issuance of a limited permit; regulated nursery stock grown, produced, or maintained at a nursery or other facility located in the quarantined area.

(b)In addition to the general conditions for issuance of a limited permit contained in § 301.76-5(b), an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a limited permit for the interstate movement for immediate export of regulated nursery stock grown, produced, or maintained at a nursery or other facility located in the quarantined area if:

(1) The nursery stock is treated for Asian citrus psyllid with an APHIS-approved soil drench or in-ground granular application, followed by an APHIS-approved foliar spray, in accordance with § 301.76-6(b)(1), or with methyl bromide, in accordance with 305 of this chapter.

(2) The nursery stock is inspected by an inspector in accordance with § 301.76-9 and found free of Asian citrus psyllid, if treated in accordance with § 301.76-6(b)(1).

(3) The nursery stock is affixed prior to movement with a plastic or metal tag on which the statement "Limited permit: USDA-APHIS-PPQ. For immediate export only" is prominently and legibly displayed. If the nursery stock is destined for movement or sale in a box or container, the statement may be printed on the box or container, or printed on a label permanently affixed to the box or container, provided that, in either case, the statement is prominently and legibly displayed.

(4) The nursery stock is accompanied by a copy of this limited permit attached to the consignee's copy of the waybill.

(5) The nursery stock is moved in accordance with the conditions specified on the limited permit directly to the port of export specified on the limit permit, in a container sealed with an agricultural seal placed by an inspector.

(6) A copy of the limited permit is attached to or legibly printed on this container.

(7) The nursery stock remains in this container, and the container remains sealed, as long as the plants are within the United States.

(c) Except for nursery stock for which a limited permit has been issued in accordance with the conditions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, no other regulated article may be moved interstate from an area quarantined for citrus greening.
