
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 6 - IMPORT QUOTAS AND FEES
#### Subpart C - Price-Undercutting of Domestic Cheese by Quota Cheeses
##### ยง 6.42 Complaints of price-undercutting.
###### Contents of complaint.

(b)Such complaint shall contain, or be accompanied by, information to substantiate complainant's allegations, in substantially the following form:

(1) The name and address of the complainant.

(2) The location of the domestic wholesale market in which price-undercutting is alleged to be occurring.

(3) The article of quota cheese involved in the alleged price-undercutting.

(4) The country of origin of such article of quota cheese.

(5) The similar domestic article, the price of which the complainant believes is being undercut.

(6) The month and year that the complainant first concluded that the price-undercutting was taking place.

(7) To extent known to the complainant, all pertinent facts with regard to the alleged subsidy, and, if known, the statutory or other authority under which it is paid, the manner in which it is paid, and the value of such subsidy when received and used by producers or sellers of such quota cheese.

(8) All other information which the complainant believes substantiates the allegation of price-undercutting, including the complainant's estimate of the domestic wholesale market price of the similar article produced in the United States and the duty-paid wholesale price of the quota cheese involved. If available, samples of the domestic and imported cheese products should be submitted.
