
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart S - Pale Cyst Nematode
###### ยง 301.86-5 Issuance and cancellation of certificates and limited permits.
####### Specific conditions for potatoes for consumption.

(2)An inspector may issue a limited permit to allow the interstate movement of potatoes from the quarantined area for processing or packing only if:

(i) The potatoes are transported in a manner that prevents the potatoes and soil attached to the potatoes from coming into contact with agricultural premises outside the quarantined area; and

(ii) The potatoes are processed or packed at facilities that handle potatoes, waste, and waste water in a manner approved by APHIS to prevent the spread of pale cyst nematode.

(c) Certificates and limited permits for the interstate movement of regulated articles may be issued by an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement. A person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a certificate for the interstate movement of a regulated article after an inspector has determined that the regulated article is eligible for a certificate in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. A person operating under a compliance agreement may issue a limited permit for interstate movement of a regulated article after an inspector has determined that the regulated article is eligible for a limited permit in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Any certificate or limited permit that has been issued may be withdrawn, either orally or in writing, by an inspector if he or she determines that the holder of the certificate or limited permit has not complied with all provisions in this subpart for the use of the certificate or limited permit or has not complied with all the conditions contained in the certificate or limited permit. If the withdrawal is oral, the withdrawal and the reasons for the withdrawal will be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose certificate or limited permit has been withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certificate or limited permit was wrongfully withdrawn. As promptly as circumstances allow, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice concerning a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
