
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart T - Sugarcane Diseases
###### Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.87-6 Compliance agreement; cancellation.

(a) Any person engaged in the business of growing, handling, or moving regulated articles may enter into a compliance agreement to facilitate the movement of regulated articles under this subpart.The compliance agreement shall be a written agreement between a person engaged in such a business and Plant Protection and Quarantine, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed pursuant to such provisions.

(b) Any compliance agreement may be canceled orally or in writing by the inspector who is supervising its enforcement whenever the inspector finds that such person has failed to comply with the provisions of this subpart or any conditions imposed pursuant to such provisions. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons for the cancellation shall be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision, in writing, to the Deputy Administrator within ten days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully cancelled. The Deputy Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve the conflict under rules of practice which shall be adopted by the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA, for the proceeding.
