
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart U - Karnal Bunt
###### ยง 301.89-8 Cancellation of a certificate, limited permit, or compliance agreement.

Any certificate, limited permit, or compliance agreement may be canceled orally or in writing by an inspector whenever the inspector determines that the holder of the certificate or limited permit, or the person who has entered into the compliance agreement, has not complied with this subpart or any conditions imposed under this subpart. If the cancellation is oral, the cancellation will become effective immediately and the cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation will be confirmed in writing as soon as circumstances allow, but within 20 days after oral notification of the cancellation. Any person whose certificate, limited permit, or compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision, in writing, within 10 days after receiving the written cancellation notice. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons that the person wants the Administrator to consider in deciding the appeal. A hearing may be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice for the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. As soon as practicable, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision.
