
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart U - Karnal Bunt
###### ยง 301.89-15 Compensation for growers, handlers, and seed companies in the 1999-2000 and subsequent crop seasons.
####### Growers.

(1)Growers of wheat in an area under the first regulated crop season, who sell wheat that was tested by APHIS and found positive for Karnal bunt prior to sale, or that was tested by APHIS and found positive for Karnal bunt after sale and the price received by the grower is contingent on the test results, are eligible to receive compensation as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section. However, compensation for positive-testing wheat will not exceed $1.80 per bushel under any circumstances.

(i) If the wheat was grown under contract and a price was determined in the contract before the area where the wheat was grown became regulated, compensation will equal the contract price minus the actual price received by the grower.

(ii) If the wheat was not grown under contract or a price was determined in the contract after the area where the wheat was grown became regulated, compensation will equal the estimated market price for the relevant class of wheat (meaning type of wheat, such as durum or hard red winter) minus the actual price received by the grower. The estimated market price will be calculated by APHIS for each class of wheat, taking into account the prices offered by relevant terminal markets (animal feed, milling, or export) during the harvest months for the area, with adjustments for transportation and other handling costs. Separate estimated market prices will be calculated for certified wheat seed and wheat grown with the intention of producing certified wheat seed, and wheat grain.
