
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart U - Karnal Bunt
###### ยง 301.89-16 Compensation for grain storage facilities, flour millers, National Survey participants, and certain custom harvesters and equipment owners or lessees for the 1999-2000 and subsequent crop seasons.
####### Decontamination of grain storage facilities.

(a)Owners of grain storage facilities that are in States where the Secretary has declared an extraordinary emergency, and who have decontaminated their grain storage facilities pursuant to either an Emergency Action Notification (PPQ Form 523) issued by an inspector or a letter issued by an inspector ordering decontamination of the facilities, are eligible to be compensated, on a one time only basis for each facility for each covered crop year wheat, for up to 50 percent of the direct cost of decontamination. However, compensation will not exceed $20,000 per grain storage facility (as defined in ยง 301.89-1). General clean-up, repair, and refurbishment costs are excluded from compensation. Compensation payments will be issued by APHIS. To claim compensation, the owner of the grain storage facility must submit to an inspector records demonstrating that decontamination was performed on all structures, conveyances, or materials ordered by APHIS to be decontaminated. The records must include a copy of the Emergency Action Notification or the letter from an inspector ordering decontamination, contracts with individuals or companies hired to perform the decontamination, receipts for equipment and materials purchased to perform the decontamination, time sheets for employees of the grain storage facility who performed activities connected to the decontamination, and any other documentation that helps show the cost to the owner and that decontamination has been completed. Claims for compensation for the 1999-2000 crop season must be received by APHIS on or before December 4, 2001. Claims for compensation for the 2000-2001 crop season and beyond must be received by March 1 of the year following that crop season. The Administrator may extend these deadlines upon written request in specific cases, when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur that prevent or hinder a claimant from requesting compensation on or before these dates.
