
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart U - Karnal Bunt
###### ยง 301.89-16 Compensation for grain storage facilities, flour millers, National Survey participants, and certain custom harvesters and equipment owners or lessees for the 1999-2000 and subsequent crop seasons.
####### Loss in value of positive wheat.

(1)The owner of the grain storage facility will be compensated for the loss in value of positive wheat. Compensation will equal the estimated market price for the relevant class of wheat minus the actual price received for the wheat. The estimated market price will be calculated by APHIS for each class of wheat, taking into account the prices offered by relevant terminal markets (animal feed, milling, or export) during the relevant time period for that facility, with adjustments for transportation and other handling costs. However, compensation will not exceed $1.80 per bushel under any circumstances. Compensation payments for loss in value of wheat will be issued by the Farm Service Agency (FSA). To claim compensation, the owner of the facility must submit to the local FSA office a Karnal Bunt Compensation Claim form, provided by FSA. The owner of the facility must also submit to FSA a copy of the Emergency Action Notification or letter from an inspector under which the facility is or was quarantined; verification as to the actual (not estimated) weight of the wheat (such as a copy of a facility weigh ticket or a copy of the bill of lading for the wheat, if the actual weight appears on those documents, or other verification); and a copy of the receipt for the final sale of the wheat, showing the total bushels sold and the total price received by the owner of the grain storage facility. Claims for compensation for the 1999-2000 crop season must be received by APHIS on or before December 4, 2001. Claims for compensation for the 2000-2001 crop season and beyond must be received by March 1 of the year following that crop season. The Administrator may extend these deadlines upon written request in specific cases, when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur that prevent or hinder a claimant from requesting compensation on or before these dates.
