
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart U - Karnal Bunt
###### ยง 301.89-16 Compensation for grain storage facilities, flour millers, National Survey participants, and certain custom harvesters and equipment owners or lessees for the 1999-2000 and subsequent crop seasons.
####### Flour millers.

(b)Flour millers who, in accordance with a compliance agreement with APHIS, heat treat millfeed that is required by APHIS to be heat treated are eligible to be compensated at the rate of $35.00 per short ton of millfeed. The amount of millfeed compensated will be calculated by multiplying the weight of wheat from the regulated area received by the miller by 25 percent (the average percent of millfeed derived from a short ton of grain). Compensation payments will be issued by APHIS. To claim compensation, the miller must submit to an inspector verification as to the actual (not estimated) weight of the wheat (such as a copy of a facility weigh ticket or a copy of the bill of lading for the wheat, if the actual weight appears on those documents, or other verification). Flour millers must also submit verification that the millfeed was heat treated (such as a copy of the limited permit under which the wheat was moved to a treatment facility and a copy of the bill of lading accompanying that movement; or a copy of PPQ Form 700 (which includes certification of processing) signed by the inspector who monitors the mill). Claims for compensation for the 1999-2000 crop season must be received by APHIS on or before December 4, 2001. Claims for compensation for the 2000-2001 crop season and beyond must be received by March 1 of the year following that crop season. The Administrator may extend these deadlines upon written request in specific cases, when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur that prevent or hinder a claimant from requesting compensation on or before these dates.
