
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart W - European Larch Canker
###### Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.91-3 Regulated areas.
######## www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/plant-disease/elc/european-larch-canker,www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/sphd

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Deputy Administrator will list as a regulated area each State, or each portion of a State, in which European larch canker has been found by an inspector, or in which the Deputy Administrator has reason to believe that European larch canker is present, or any portion of a quarantined State which the Deputy Administrator deems necessary to regulate because of its proximity to a European larch canker infestation or its inseparability for quarantine enforcement purpose from localities in which European larch canker occurs. The Deputy Administrator will publish a list of all regulated areas (the regulated areas list) on the PPQ website at. The list will include the date that the list was last updated. Lists of all regulated areas may also be obtained by request from any local PPQ office; local offices are listed in telephone directories and on the internet at. After a change is made to the list of regulated areas, APHIS will publish a notice in theinforming the public that the change has occurred and describing the change to the regulated areas. Less than an entire quarantined State will be designated as a regulated area only if the Deputy Administrator determines that:

(1) The State has adopted and is enforcing a quarantine or regulation which imposes restrictions on the intrastate movement of the regulated articles which are substantially the same as those which are imposed with respect to the interstate movement of such articles under this subpart; and

(2) The designation of less than the entire State as a regulated area will otherwise be adequate to prevent the artificial interstate spread of European larch canker.

(b) The Deputy Administrator or an inspector may temporarily designate any nonregulated area in a quarantined State as a regulated area in accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The Deputy Administrator will give a copy of this subpart along with written notice of the temporary designation to the owner or person in possession of the nonregulated area, or, in the case of publicly owned land, to the person responsible for the management of the nonregulated area. Thereafter, the interstate movement of any regulated article from an area temporarily designated as a regulated area will be subject to this subpart. As soon as practicable, the area will be added to the regulated areas list or the designation will be terminated by the Deputy Administrator or an inspector. The owner or person in possession of, or, in the case of publicly owned land, the person responsible for the management of, an area for which designation is terminated will be given written notice of the termination as soon as practicable.
