
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart W - European Larch Canker
###### Quarantine and Regulations
####### ยง 301.91-6 Compliance agreement and cancellation thereof.

(a) Any person engaged in the business of growing, handling, or moving regulated articles may enter into a compliance agreement to facilitate the movement of regulated articles under this subpart.The compliance agreement shall be a written agreement between a person engaged in such a business and Plant Protection and Quarantine, wherein the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed pursuant thereto.

(b) Any compliance agreement may be cancelled orally or in writing by the inspector who is supervising its enforcement whenever the inspector finds that such person has failed to comply with the provisions of this subpart or any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons therefor shall be confirmed in writing, as promptly as circumstances permit. Any person whose compliance agreement has been cancelled may appeal the decision, in writing, to the Deputy Administrator within ten (10) days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully cancelled. The Deputy Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for such decision, as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of Practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Deputy Administrator.
