
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 7 - SELECTION AND FUNCTIONS OF FARM SERVICE AGENCY STATE AND COUNTY COMMITTEES
#### ยง 7.11 Election of county committee members.

(a) Where there are three local administrative areas as specified in ยง 7.6, there will be an election of a county committee member and, if available, any alternates, for a term of not more than 3 years, or until such person's successor is elected and qualified, in only one of the local administrative areas so that the term of office of one county committee member and any alternates within one of the local administrative areas will expire each year.

(b) Where there are more than three local administrative areas as specified in ยง 7.6, there will be an election in at least one of the local administrative areas each year, such that the term of office of the county committee member(s) and any alternates within at least one-third of the local administrative areas will expire each year.

(c) Every 3 years, the eligible voters in a local administrative area will elect a county committee member and may elect first and second alternates, as available, to serve. The alternates will serve, in the order of the number of votes received, as acting members of the county committee, in case of the temporary absence of a member, or to become a member of the county committee in that same order elected in case of the resignation, disqualification, removal, or death of a member. In other words, the candidate receiving the most votes will be elected as the committee member, and the candidates receiving the second and third most votes, if there are multiple candidates, will be elected as first and second alternates, respectively.

(d) An alternate serving as an acting member of the county committee will have the same duties, responsibilities, and authority as a regular member of such committee. In the event an alternate fills a permanent vacancy on the county committee, such person will assume the remainder of the unexpired term of the county committee member who was replaced.

(e) The election must be conducted in all counties by mail or other distribution of ballots in accordance with the Uniform Guidelines, except that the Deputy Administrator may authorize use of the meeting or polling place method in any county where such exception is deemed justified.

(f) Elections will be by secret ballot with each eligible voter allowed to cast one vote and having the option of writing in the name of a candidate.

(g) Failure to elect alternates at the regular election will not invalidate such election or require a special election to elect alternates.
