
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 301 - DOMESTIC QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart X - Phytophthora Ramorum
###### ยง 301.92-5 Issuance and cancellation of certificates.
####### Phytophthora ramorum

(3) The articles to be shipped interstate are free frominoculum; and

(4) The movement of the articles is not subject to additional restriction under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) or other Federal domestic plant quarantines and regulations.

(c) Certificates issued under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be issued by any person engaged in the business of growing, processing, handling, or moving regulated or associated articles or nursery stock provided such person has entered into and is operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with ยง 301.92-6. Any such person may execute and issue a certificate for the interstate movement of regulated or associated articles or nursery stock if an inspector has previously made the determination that the article is eligible for a certificate in accordance with any applicable section of this subpart.

(d) Any certificate that has been issued may be withdrawn, either orally or in writing, by an inspector if he or she determines that the holder of the certificate has not complied with all conditions in this subpart for the use of the certificate. If the withdrawal is oral, the withdrawal and the reasons for the withdrawal will be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose certificate has been withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certificate was wrongfully withdrawn. As promptly as circumstances allow, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice concerning a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
