
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 7 - SELECTION AND FUNCTIONS OF FARM SERVICE AGENCY STATE AND COUNTY COMMITTEES
#### ยง 7.14 Vacancies.

(a) In case of a vacancy in the office of chairperson of a county committee, the respective vice chairperson will become chairperson. In case of a vacancy in the office of vice chairperson of a three member committee, the respective third member will become vice chairperson. In case of a vacancy in the office of a member, a respective first alternate, if available, will become a member. In case of a vacancy in the office of vice chairperson of a four to five member county committee, the first alternate, if available, for the LAA of the vice chairperson will become a member and the county committee will conduct an organizational meeting to select a vice chairperson; and in case of a vacancy in the office of the first alternate, a respective second alternate, if available, will become the first alternate. When unanimously recommended by the members of the county committee, as constituted under this paragraph, and approved by the State committee, the offices of chairperson and vice chairperson of the county committee may be filled by any county committee member without regard to the order of succession specified in this paragraph.

(b) In the event that a vacancy, other than one caused by temporary absence, occurs in the membership of the county committee and no alternate is available to fill the vacancy, a special election may be held to fill such vacancies as exist in the membership.

(c) In the event that a vacancy, other than one caused by temporary absence, occurs in the membership of the county committee and no alternate is available to fill the vacancy, the State committee may designate a person to serve out the balance of the term of the vacant position on the county committee.
