
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 305 - PHYTOSANITARY TREATMENTS
##### ยง 305.2 Approved treatments.

(a) Certain commodities or articles require treatment, or are subject to treatment, prior to interstate movement within the United States or importation or entry into the United States. Treatment is required as indicated in parts 301, 318, and 319 of this chapter, on a permit, or by an inspector.

(b) Treatments may only be administered in accordance with the requirements of this part and in accordance with treatment schedules approved by the Administrator as effective at neutralizing quarantine pests. The treatment schedules found in the PPQ Treatment Manual have been approved by the Administrator. Treatment schedules may be added to the PPQ Treatment Manual in accordance with ยง 305.3. Treatment schedules may also be approved by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Persons who wish to have a treatment schedule approved by the Administrator as effective at neutralizing a quarantine pest or pests may apply for approval by submitting the treatment schedule, along with any supporting information and data, to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Center for Plant Health Science and Technology, 1730 Varsity Drive, Suite 400, Raleigh, NC 27606-5202. Upon receipt of such an application, the Administrator will review the schedule and the supporting information and data and respond with approval or denial of the treatment schedule. If the Administrator determines the treatment schedule to be of potential general use, the Administrator may add the new treatment schedule to the PPQ Treatment Manual or revise an existing schedule, as appropriate, in accordance with ยง 305.3.

(d) APHIS is not responsible for losses or damages incurred during treatment and recommends that a sample be treated first before deciding whether to treat the entire shipment.
