
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 318 - STATE OF HAWAII AND TERRITORIES QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart A - Regulated Articles From Hawaii and the Territories
###### ยง 318.13-3 General requirements for all regulated articles.
####### Withdrawal of certification, transit permits, limited permits, or compliance agreements.

(f)Any certification, transit permit, limited permit, or compliance agreement which has been issued or authorized may be withdrawn by an inspector orally or in writing, if such inspector determines that the holder thereof has not complied with all conditions under the regulations for the use of such document. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons for the withdrawal shall be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose certification, transit permit, limited permit, or compliance agreement has been withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certification, transit permit, limited permit, or compliance agreement was wrongfully withdrawn. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for such decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
