
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart C - Controlled Import Permits
###### ยง 319.6 Controlled import permits.
####### Shipping conditions.

(d)Consignments of plant material to be offered for importation under a CIP must meet the following requirements, unless otherwise specified under the conditions of the CIP:

(1) The plant material must be selected from apparently disease-free and pest-free sources.

(2) The plant material must be free of soil, other foreign matter or debris, other prohibited plants, noxious weed seeds, and living organisms such as parasitic plants, pathogens, insects, snails, and mites.

(3) Fungicides, insecticides, and other treatments such as coatings, dips, or sprayings must not be applied before shipment, unless otherwise specified. Plant materials may be refused entry if they are difficult or hazardous to inspect because of the presence of such treatments. Plant materials must not be wrapped or otherwise packaged in a manner that impedes or prevents adequate inspection or treatment.

(4) The plant material must be moved in an enclosed container or one completely enclosed by a covering adequate to prevent the possible escape or introduction of plant pests during shipment. Any packing material used in the consignment of the plant material must meet the requirements of ยง 319.37-11, and wood packing material used in the consignment must meet the requirements of ยง 319.40-3(b) and (c).

(5) Consignments may be shipped as cargo, by mail or air freight, or hand-carried, as specified in the conditions of the CIP.

(6) The plant material must be offered for importation at the port of entry or plant inspection station as specified in the conditions of the CIP.

(7) A copy of the CIP must accompany each consignment, and all consignments must be labeled in accordance with instructions in the CIP.

(8) Each consignment must be accompanied by an invoice or packing list indicating its contents.
