
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart C - Controlled Import Permits
###### ยง 319.6 Controlled import permits.
####### Post-importation conditions.

(e)(1) At the approved facility where the plant material will be maintained following its importation, plant material imported under a CIP must be identified and labeled as quarantined material to be used only in accordance with a valid CIP.

(2) Plant material must be stored in a secure place or in the manner indicated in the CIP and be under the supervision and control of the permit holder. During regular business hours, properly identified officials, either Federal or State, must be allowed to inspect the plant material and the facilities in which the plant material is maintained.

(3) The permit holder must keep the permit valid for the duration of the authorized experimental, therapeutic, or developmental purpose. The PPQ Permit Unit must be informed of a change in contact information for the permit holder within 10 business days of such change.

(4) Plant material imported under a CIP must not be moved or distributed to another person without prior authorization from the PPQ Permit Unit.

(5) Should the permit holder leave the institution in which the plant material imported under a CIP is kept, the plant material must be destroyed unless, prior to the departure of the original permit holder, another person assumes responsibility for the continued maintenance of the plant material and such person obtains a new CIP for the plant material. Should the permit holder be otherwise unavailable to maintain the plant material for which the CIP was issued, the plant material must be destroyed unless another person assumes responsibility for the continued maintenance of the plant material and such person obtains a new CIP for the plant material. Permission to move or distribute plant material that was authorized for importation under a CIP to another person must be obtained by contacting the PPQ Permit Unit.

(6) CIPs issued by APHIS are valid for a period of 1 year. The permittee may request the existing permit be renewed for up to an additional 2 years prior to the expiration of the CIP and if no adverse indications exist from the previous year.

(f) Failure to comply with all of the conditions specified in the CIP or any applicable regulations or administrative instructions, or forging, counterfeiting, or defacing permits or shipping labels, may result in immediate revocation of the permit, denial of future permits, and civil or criminal penalties for the permit holder.
