
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 8 - 4-H CLUB NAME AND EMBLEM
#### ยง 8.6 Authorization for use.

(a) The Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture may grant authorization for use of the 4-H Club Name and Emblem:

(1) For educational or informational uses which the Cooperative Extension Service deems to be in the best interests of the 4-H program and which can be properly controlled by the Cooperative Extension Service.

(2) For services to youth which the Cooperative Extension Service determines it is not in a position itself to perform.

(b) Authorizations, when issued, will be valid for specified purposes and periods of time only. Application forms for requesting authorization to use the 4-H Club Name and Emblem may be obtained from the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250.

(c) Granting an authorization to an individual, organization, or institution for a specific use does not preclude granting a similar authorization to another individual, organization, or institution for the same or a similar purpose.

(d) All uses of the 4-H Club Name or Emblem shall be consistent with the educational purposes, character-building objectives, and dignity of the 4-H program and the 4-H Club Name or Emblem shall be given a position of prominence. It is not permissible to superimpose any letter, design, or object on the 4-H Club Emblem, or to materially alter its intended shape.

(e) Specific authorization is not required to use the 4-H Club Name or Emblem in media such as newspapers, periodicals, and radio and television programs when such use is primarily for educational or informational purposes. Likewise, specific authorization is not required to use the 4-H Club Name or Emblem in those exhibits, displays, etc., which are designed primarily to pay tribute to or salute the 4-H program and are in keeping with the policies enunciated herein.

(f) Authorization must be obtained for use of the 4-H Club Name or Emblem by other than representatives of the Cooperative Extension Services, the land-grant institutions, and the National 4-H Council in connection with contests and awards, books, booklets, charts, posters, and all other forms of publications; all calendars regardless of origin or use; theatrical and nontheatrical motion pictures; slides, slide films, and other visual and audio-visual materials; supplies (whether to be sold or provided without charge); and titles of persons.

(g) Any authorization or permission for use of the 4-H Club Name and Emblem may be revoked at any time after written notice.
