
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 8 - 4-H CLUB NAME AND EMBLEM
#### ยง 8.9 Use in 4-H fund raising.

(a) Fund-raising programs using the 4-H Name or Emblem may be carried out for specific educational purposes. Such fund-raising programs and use of the 4-H name and emblem on, or associated with, products, and services for such purposes must have the approval of appropriate Cooperative Extension office, as follows:

(1) Approval of the County Cooperative Extension Service, or the appropriate land-grant institution, if the fund-raising program is confined to the area served by the County Cooperative Extension Service.

(2) Approval of the State Cooperative Extension Service, or the appropriate land-grant institution, if the fund-raising program is multi-county or Statewide.

(3) Approval of the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture, or a designee, if the fund-raising program is multi-State or Nationwide.

(b) When used to promote 4-H educational programs, the 4-H Club name and emblem, subject to obtaining authorization as provided in these regulations, may be used on or associated with products and services sold in connection with 4-H fund-raising programs so long as no endorsement or the appearance of an endorsement of a commercial firm, product or service is either intended or effected. Tributes to 4-H contained on or associated with commercial products or services, when such products or services are used for the fund-raising activities, are subject to the requirements of this paragraph. All moneys received from 4-H fund-raising programs, except those necessary to pay reasonable expenses, must be expended to further the 4-H educational programs.
