
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart E - Foreign Cotton and Covers
###### Conditions of Importation and Entry of Cotton and Covers
####### § 319.8-2 Permit procedure.

(a) Except as otherwise provided for in §§ 319.8-10 and 319.8-18, permits shall be obtained for importations into the United States of all cotton and covers. Permits will be issued only for cotton and covers authorized entry under §§ 319.8-6 through 319.8-20. Persons desiring to import cotton or covers under §§ 319.8-6 through 319.8-20 shall, in advance of departure of such material from a foreign port, submit to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs an application for a permit in accordance with §§ 319.7 through 319.7-5 . Applications to import cottonseed shall state the approximate quantity and the proposed United States port of entry. Applications to import lint, linters, or waste shall state whether such materials are compressed.

(b) Applications to import lint, linters, or waste at a portother than one in the North, in California, or on the Mexican Border shall also specify whether the commodity is compressed to high density.

(c) Upon receipt of an application to import lint, linters, waste, or covers, without treatment, for utilization under agreement as defined in § 319.8-8(a)(2), an investigation will be made by an inspector to determine that the receiving mill or plant is satisfactorily located geographically, is equipped with all necessary safeguards, and is apparently in a position to fulfill all precautionary conditions to which it may agree. Upon determination by the inspector that these qualifications are fulfilled, the owner or operator of the mill or plant may sign an agreement specifying that the required precautionary conditions will be maintained. Such signed agreement will be a necessary requisite to the release at the port of entry of any imported lint, linters, waste, or covers for forwarding to and utilization at such mill or plant in lieu of vacuum fumigation or other treatment otherwise required by this subpart. Permits for the importation of such materials will be issued in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Permits for importation of any cotton or covers are conditioned upon compliance with all of the conditions specified in the permit and any applicable regulations or administrative instructions of this part.

(e) Pending development of adequate treating facilities in Guam, any cotton or covers that are subject to treatment as a condition of entry therein must first be entered and treated in accordance with the requirements of this subpart at a U.S. port of arrival where such treating facilities are available.
