
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart E - Foreign Cotton and Covers
###### Special Conditions for the Entry of Cotton and Covers From Mexico
####### ยง 319.8-12 From the West Coast of Mexico.

Contingent upon continued freedom of the West Coast of Mexico and of Northwest Mexico from infestations of the pink bollworm, entry of the following products may be authorized under permit subject to inspection to determine freedom from hazardous plant pest conditions:

(a) Compressed lint and linters.

(b) Uncompressed lint and linters for movement into the generally infested pink bollworm regulated area, movement thereafter to be in accordance with ยง 301.52 of this chapter.

(c) Compressed or uncompressed cotton waste for movement under bond to Fabens, Texas, for vacuum fumigation after which it will be released from further plant quarantine entry requirements.

(d) Cottonseed when certified by an inspector as having been treated, stored, and transported in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.

(e) Untreated, non-certified cottonseed contained in new bags for movement by special manifest to any destination in the generally infested pink bollworm regulated area, movement thereafter to be in accordance with ยง 301.52 of this chapter.

(f) Cottonseed hulls when certified by an inspector as having been treated, stored, and transported in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.

(g) Any cotton products for movement through Mexican border ports in Texas directly into the generally infested pink bollworm regulated area, movement thereafter to be in accordance with ยง 301.52 of this chapter.
