
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart I - Logs, Lumber, and Other Wood Articles
###### ยง 319.40-6 Universal importation options.
####### Wood chips and bark chips,From Chile (pine) and South America (eucalyptus).,Pinus radiata,Eucalyptus

(c)-(1)Wood chips from Chile that are derived from Monterey or Radiata pine () logs and wood chips from South America that are derived from temperate species ofmay be imported in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section or in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) The wood chips must be accompanied by a certificate stating that the wood chips meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section.

(A) The wood chips were treated with a surface pesticide treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter within 24 hours after the log was chipped and were retreated with a surface pesticide treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter if more than 30 days elapsed between the date of the first treatment and the date of export to the United States.

(B) The wood chips were derived from logs from live, healthy, plantation-grown trees that were apparently free of plant pests, plant pest damage, and decay organisms, and the logs used to make the wood chips were debarked in accordance with ยง 319.40-7(b) before being chipped.

(C) No more than 45 days elapsed from the time the trees used to make the wood chips were felled to the time the wood chips were exported.

(ii) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated articles (other than solid wood packing materials) are permitted in the holds or sealed containers carrying the wood chips. Wood chips on the vessel's deck must be in a sealed container.

(iii) The wood chips must be consigned to a facility in the United States that operates under a compliance agreement in accordance with ยง 319.40-8. The following requirements apply upon arrival of the wood chips in the United States:

(A) Upon arrival in the United States, the wood chips must be unloaded by a conveyor that is covered to prevent the chips from being blown by the wind and from accidental spillage. The facility receiving the wood chips must have a procedure in place to retrieve any chips that fall during unloading.

(B) If the wood chips must be transported after arrival, the chips must be covered or safeguarded in a manner that prevents the chips from spilling or falling off the means of conveyance or from being blown off the means of conveyance by wind.

(C) The wood chips must be stored at the facility on a paved surface and must be kept segregated from other regulated articles from the time of discharge from the means of conveyance until the chips are processed. The storage area must not be adjacent to wooded areas.

(D) The wood chips must be processed within 45 days of arrival at the facility. Any fines or unusable wood chips must be disposed of by burning within 45 days of arrival at the facility.
