
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart I - Logs, Lumber, and Other Wood Articles
###### ยง 319.40-9 Inspection and other requirements at port of first arrival.
####### Notice of arrival; visual examination of regulated articles at port of first arrival.

(b)(1) At least 7 days prior to the expected date of arrival in the United States of a shipment of regulated articles imported in accordance with this subpart, the permittee or his or her agent must notify the APHIS Officer in Charge at the port of arrival of the date of expected arrival. The address and telephone number of the APHIS Officer in Charge will be specified in any specific permit issued by APHIS. This notice may be by any authorized method. The notice must include the number of any specific permit issued for the regulated articles; the name, if any, of the means of conveyance carrying the regulated articles; the type and quantity of the regulated articles; the expected date of arrival; the country of origin of the regulated articles; the name and the number, if any, of the dock or area where the regulated articles are to be unloaded; and the name of the importer or broker at the port of arrival.

(2) Imported regulated articles which have been debarked in accordance with ยง 319.40-7(b) and can be safely and practically inspected will be visually examined for plant pests by an inspector at the port of first arrival. If plant pests are found on or in the regulated articles or if the regulated article cannot be safely and practically inspected, the regulated articles must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.
