
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart I - Logs, Lumber, and Other Wood Articles
###### ยง 319.40-11 Plant pest risk assessment standards.
####### Determining which quarantine pests to assess.

(c)(1) APHIS will divide quarantine pests identified in paragraph (b) of this section into groups depending upon where the plant pest is most likely to be found. The plant pests would be grouped as follows:

(i) Plant pests found on the bark;

(ii) Plant pests found under the bark; and

(iii) Plant pests found in the wood.

(2) APHIS will subdivide each of the groups in paragraph (c)(1) of this section into associated taxa.

(3) APHIS will rank the plant pests in each group in paragraph (c)(2) of this section according to plant pest risk, based on the available biological information and demonstrated plant pest importance.

(4) APHIS will identify any plant pests ranked in paragraph (c)(3) of this section for which plant pest risk assessments have previously been performed in accordance with this section. APHIS will conduct individual plant pest risk assessments for the remaining plant pests, starting with the highest ranked plant pest(s) in each group.

(5) The number of plant pests in each group to be evaluated through individual plant pest risk assessment will be based on biological similarities of members of the group as they relate to measures taken in connection with the importation of the regulated article to mitigate the plant pest risk associated with the regulated article. For example, if the plant pest risk assessment for the highest ranked plant pest indicates a need for a mitigation measure that would result in the same reduction of risk for other plant pests ranked in the group, the other members need not be subjected to individual plant pest risk assessment.
