
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 319 - FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES
##### Subpart L - Fruits and Vegetables
###### § 319.56-7 Territorial applicability and exceptions.
####### Allium,Cucurbita maxima

(iii)(without tops), artichokes, bananas, bell peppers, cabbage, carrots, celery, Chinese cabbage, citrus fruits, eggplant, grapes, lettuce, melons, okra, parsley, peas, persimmons, potatoes, rhubarb, squash (), stone and pome fruits, string beans, sweetpotatoes, tomatoes, turnip greens, turnips, and watermelons from Japan and Korea.

(iv) Leafy vegetables, celery, and potatoes from the Philippine Islands.

(v) Carrots (without tops), celery, lettuce, peas, potatoes, and radishes (without tops) from Australia.

(vi) Arrowroot, asparagus, bean sprouts, broccoli, cabbage, carrots (without tops), cassava, cauliflower, celery, chives, cow-cabbage, dasheen, garlic, gingerroot, horseradish, kale, kudzu, leek, lettuce, onions, Portuguese cabbage, turnip, udo, water chestnut, watercress, waterlily root, and yam bean root from Taiwan.

(vii) Lettuce from Papua New Guinea.

(viii) Carrots (without tops), celery, lettuce, loquats, onions, persimmons, potatoes, tomatoes, and stone fruits from New Zealand.

(ix) Asparagus, carrots (without tops), celery, lettuce, and radishes (without tops) from Thailand.

(x) Green corn on the cob.

(xi) All other fruits and vegetables approved for entry into any other part or port of the United States, and except any which are specifically designated in this subpart as not approved.

(2) An inspector in Guam may accept an oral application and issue an oral permit for products listed in paragraph (a) of this section, which is deemed to fulfill the requirements of § 319.56-3(b) of this subpart. The inspector may waive the documentation required in § 319.56-3 for such products whenever the inspector finds that information available from other sources meets the requirements under this subpart for the information normally supplied by such documentation.

(3) The provisions of § 319.56-11 do not apply to chestnuts and acorns imported into Guam, which are enterable into Guam without permit or other restriction under this subpart. If chestnuts or acorns imported under this paragraph are found infected, infested, or contaminated with any plant pest and are not subject to disposal under this subpart, disposition may be made in accordance with § 330.106 of this chapter.

(4) Baskets or other containers made of coconut fronds are not approved for use as containers for fruits and vegetables imported into Guam. Fruits and vegetables in such baskets or containers offered for importation into Guam will not be regarded as meeting § 319.56-3(a).
