
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 330 - FEDERAL PLANT PEST REGULATIONS; GENERAL; PLANT PESTS, BIOLOGICAL CONTROL ORGANISMS, AND ASSOCIATED ARTICLES; GARBAGE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 330.106 Emergency measures.
####### Infestation in an aircraft.

(3)If infestation is found in an aircraft, the inspector may apply seals as provided in ยง 330.110, and he may require such temporary safeguards as he deems necessary, including the discontinuance of further unloading or landing of any products or articles except as authorized by him. Upon finding such infestation in an aircraft the inspector shall promptly notify the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs of all circumstances and the temporary safeguards employed, and the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs will specify the measures for eliminating the infestation which will not be deleterious to the aircraft or its operating components. Any insecticidal application required shall be approved by the Deputy Administrator for use in aircraft. If the aircraft is to depart from the territorial limits of the United States within 24 hours after the infestation is found, the inspector shall permit such departure in lieu of the application of other measures and shall prior to departure break any seals that would prevent access to the aircraft or safe operation thereof. Other seals shall remain intact at time of departure and shall be broken by the aircraft commander or a crew member upon his order only after the aircraft is beyond the territorial limits of the United States. Extension of the 24-hour period shall be given only under authority of the Deputy Administrator. The owner of the aircraft under notice of khapra beetle infestation which leaves the territorial limits of the United States before the infestation has been eradicated should arrange for eradication before returning the aircraft to the United States. Upon return to the United States, if the infestation is not eliminated to the satisfaction of the inspector, the aircraft shall be subject to the same disinfestation requirements and other safeguards immediately upon arrival in the United States. Customs officers shall be notified as required in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
