
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 330 - FEDERAL PLANT PEST REGULATIONS; GENERAL; PLANT PESTS, BIOLOGICAL CONTROL ORGANISMS, AND ASSOCIATED ARTICLES; GARBAGE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 330.106 Emergency measures.
####### Infestation in cargo compartments of means of conveyance,except aircraft

(2)(). When infestation is found in cargo compartments or in cargo of a means of conveyance, except aircraft, the inspector shall prescribe and supervise the application of such remedial measures as, in his opinion are necessary, with respect to the cargo and the portions of the means of conveyance which contain or contained or were contaminated by the infested cargo. If in the opinion of the inspector fumigation is the only available safeguard to eliminate the infestation, he shall order the owner to arrange for immediate fumigation of the infested portions of such means of conveyance and cargo. However, if such cargo compartments cannot be fumigated without fumigating the entire means of conveyance, the inspector may order the entire means of conveyance and cargo to be fumigated. The inspector shall notify the owner of the means of conveyance of such requirement and the owner shall arrange for immediate fumigation. Discharge of cargo shall be discontinued unless the inspector allows it to continue under safeguards to be prescribed by him. The provisions applicable to stores and storerooms in paragraph (d)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section shall apply to cargo and cargo areas of such means of conveyance. Customs officers shall be informed as required in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
