
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 9 - PANDEMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
#### Subpart C - CFAP 2
##### ยง 9.203 Calculation of payments.

(a) Payments for price trigger crops will be equal to the greater of:

(1) Eligible acres of the crop multiplied by a rate of $15 per acre; or

(2) Eligible acres of the crop multiplied by the applicable yield, multiplied by the crop marketing percentage in Table 1 of paragraph (j) of this section, multiplied by the crop payment rate in Table 1 of paragraph (j) of this section.

(3) Under paragraph (a) of this section, eligible acres include the producer's share of the determined acres, or reported acres if determined acres are not present, of the crop planted for the 2020 crop year, excluding prevented planted and experimental acres. For producers who insured acres of the crop under a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524), the yield will be the average of the producer's 2020 actual production history (APH) approved yield from all of the producer's insured acres nationwide. For producers for whom FSA is unable to obtain a 2020 APH approved yield, the yield will be:

(i) The 2019 Agriculture Risk Coverage-County Option (ARC-CO) benchmark yield if the applicant:

(A) Has coverage for the crop under an Area Risk Protection Insurance Plan, Margin Protection Plan, Stacked Income Protection Plan, Supplemental Coverage Option, or Whole-Farm Revenue Protection Plan under the Federal Crop Insurance Act;

(B) Is a landlord of the applicable acreage and their share is insured by the tenant under a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act;

(C) Is a tenant of the applicable acreage and their share is insured by the landlord under a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act; or

(D) Is a joint venture and the crop is insured by one of the members under a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act; or

(ii) The 2019 Agriculture Risk Coverage-County Option (ARC-CO) benchmark yield multiplied by 85 percent for all other applicants.

(4) ARC-CO yields in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for producers growing a crop in multiple counties will be weighted based on the producer's crop acreage physically located in each county.

(5) An additional payment will be issued for price trigger crops equal to the eligible acres of the crop multiplied by a payment rate of $20 per acre.

(b) Payments for flat-rate crops will be equal to eligible acres of the crop multiplied by a rate of $15 per acre. Eligible acres include the producer's share of the determined acres, or reported acres if determined acres are not present, excluding prevented planted and experimental acres. An additional payment will be issued for flat-rate crops equal to the eligible acres of the crop multiplied by a payment rate of $20 per acre.

(c) Payments for beef cattle will be equal to the lower of the producer's maximum owned inventory of eligible beef cattle, excluding breeding stock, on a date selected by the producer from April 16, 2020, through August 31, 2020, or 4,546 head multiplied by the number of payment limitations for the producer, multiplied by a payment rate of $55 per head.

(d) Payments for hogs and pigs will be equal to the lower of the producer's maximum owned inventory of eligible hogs and pigs, excluding breeding stock, on a date selected by the producer from April 16, 2020, through August 31, 2020, or 10,870 head multiplied by the number of payment limitations for the producer, multiplied by a payment rate of $23 per head.

(e) Payments for lambs and sheep will be equal to the producer's highest owned inventory of eligible lambs and sheep, excluding breeding stock, on a date selected by the producer from April 16, 2020, through August 31, 2020, multiplied by a payment rate of $27 per head.

(f)(1) Payments for broilers will be equal to 75 percent of the producer's 2019 broiler production multiplied by a payment rate of $1.01 per bird (head).

(2) Payments for broiler producers who began farming in 2020 and had no production in 2019 will be calculated as provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, except that the payments will be based on the producer's actual 2020 broiler production as of the date the producer submits an application for payment under this subpart.

(g)(1) Payments for dairy (cow milk) will be equal to the sum of the following two calculations:

(i) The producer's total actual milk production from April 1, 2020, to August 31, 2020, multiplied by the payment $1.20 per hundredweight; and

(ii) The producer's estimated milk production from September 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020, based on the daily average production from April 1, 2020, through August 31, 2020, multiplied by 122, multiplied by a payment rate of $1.20 per hundredweight.

(2) Dairy operations that stop commercially marketing milk after the date they apply for CFAP 2 but before December 31, 2020, must notify FSA of the date they stop commercially marketing milk. Those dairies are eligible only for a prorated payment under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section for the number of days the dairy operation commercially markets milk from September 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020.

(h)(1) Payments for eggs will be equal to 75 percent of the producer's 2019 egg production multiplied by the payment rate in Table 1 of paragraph (j) of this section.

(2) Payments for egg producers who began farming in 2020 and had no production in 2019 will be calculated as provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, except that the payments will be based on the producer's actual 2020 egg production as of the date the producer submits an application for payment under this subpart.

(i) Payments for sales-based commodities will be:

(1) Based on one of the following as elected by the producer:

(i) The producer's sales for calendar year 2018 and crop insurance indemnities and NAP and WHIP+ payments for the 2018 crop year for all sales-based commodities; or

(ii) The producer's sales for calendar year 2019 and crop insurance indemnities and NAP and WHIP+ payments for the 2019 crop year for all sales-based commodities.

(2) Equal to the sum of the results for the following calculation for each sales range in Table 2 of paragraph (j) of this section:

(i) The sum of the amount of the producer's eligible sales for the sales-based commodities in the applicable calendar year and the producer's crop insurance indemnities and NAP and WHIP+ payments for the sales commodities for the applicable crop year within the specified range, multiplied by the payment rate for that range in Table 2 of paragraph (j) of this section.

(ii) Eligible sales only includes sales of raw commodities grown by the producer; the portion of sales derived from adding value to the commodity, such as processing and packaging, and from sales of products purchased for resale is not included in the payment calculation unless determined eligible by the Secretary.

(3) Payments for producers of sales commodities who began farming in 2020 and had no sales in 2019, calculated as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, except that the payments will be based on the producer's actual 2020 sales, without crop insurance indemnities, NAP or WHIP+ payments, as of the date the producer submits an application for payment under this section.

(j) The payment rates in Tables 1 and 2 of this paragraph (j) will be used to calculate CFAP payments:

(k) CFAP 2 payments will not be calculated or issued for ineligible commodities.

(l) For eligible contract producers, if eligible revenue for the period from January 1, 2020, through December 27, 2020, decreased compared to eligible revenue for the period from January 1, 2018, through December 27, 2018, or the period from January 1, 2019, through December 27, 2019, then payments will be equal to:

(1) Eligible revenue received from January 1, 2018, through December 27, 2018, or from January 1, 2019, through December 27, 2019; minus

(2) Eligible revenue received from January 1, 2020, through December 27, 2020; multiplied by

(3) 80 percent.

(4) USDA will adjust the eligible revenue based on information certified by the contract producer on form AD-3117B for contract producers who did not have a full period of revenue from January 1 to December 27 for either 2018 or 2019, or who increased their operation size in 2020. Information required to calculate these adjustments may include a contract producer's square footage increase to the operation in 2020, or a contract producer's production or number of turns for 2018, 2019, or 2020, as applicable.

(m) For eligible contract producers who did not receive eligible revenue from January 1 through December 27 in 2018 or 2019, but received eligible revenue for the period from January 1, 2020, through December 27, 2020:

(1) FSA will divide the eligible revenue received from January 1, 2020, through December 27, 2020, by the result of 1 minus the average revenue loss level, determined by USDA for a geographic area based on the best available data including, but not limited to, losses reported by other contract producers for the same area and type of livestock or poultry; and

(2) The payment will be equal to:

(i) The result of the calculation in paragraph (m)(1) of this section minus the contract producer's eligible revenue received from January 1, 2020, through December 27, 2020; multiplied by

(ii) 80 percent.

(n) Payments under paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section and the average revenue loss levels under paragraph (m)(1) of this section will be calculated separately for the following categories:

(1) Chickens-broilers, pullets, and layers;

(2) Chicken eggs;

(3) Turkeys;

(4) Hogs and pigs;

(5) Ducks, geese, pheasants, quail; and

(6) All other eligible poultry eggs.

(o) The calculations in paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section are subject to the availability of funds and will be factored, if needed.

(p) An additional payment equal to 15 percent of a producer's CFAP 2 payment calculated according to paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section will be issued to producers who have certified their status as an underserved farmer or rancher, applicable to the 2020 program year, on CCC-860, Socially Disadvantaged, Limited Resource, Beginning and Veteran Farmer or Rancher Certification.
