
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 9 - PANDEMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - Pandemic Assistance Revenue Program
##### ยง 9.301 Applicability and administration.

(a) This subpart specifies the eligibility requirements and payment calculations for the Pandemic Assistance Revenue Program (PARP). FSA is administering PARP to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic by providing support for eligible producers of agricultural commodities who suffered an eligible revenue loss in calendar year 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. To be eligible for PARP payments, participants must comply with all provisions under this subpart.

(b) PARP is administered under the general supervision and direction of the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA).

(c) The FSA State committee will take any action required by this subpart that an FSA county committee has not taken. The FSA State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require an FSA county committee to correct, any action taken by such county FSA committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this subpart; or

(2) Require an FSA county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this subpart.

(d) No provision or delegation to an FSA State or county committee will preclude the FSA Administrator, the Deputy Administrator, or a designee or other such person, from determining any question arising under the programs of this subpart, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by an FSA State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator has the authority to permit State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines (except deadlines specified in a law) and other requirements or program provisions not specified in law, in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements or program provisions do not adversely affect operation of PARP.
