
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 340 - MOVEMENT OF ORGANISMS MODIFIED OR PRODUCED THROUGH GENETIC ENGINEERING
##### ยง 340.5 Permits.
###### Permit conditions.

(i)The standard conditions listed in this paragraph (i) will be assigned to all permits issued under this section. The Administrator may assign supplemental permit conditions as deemed necessary to ensure confinement of the GE organism. Prior to issuance of a permit or an amended permit, the responsible person will be required to agree in writing or electronically that he or she and his or her agents will comply with the conditions of the permit, as described in this paragraph (i). If the responsible person does not agree to the conditions, the amendment will be denied.

(1) The organism under permit must be maintained and disposed of in a manner so as to prevent its unauthorized release, spread, dispersal, and/or persistence in the environment.

(2) The organism under permit must be kept separate from other organisms, except as specifically allowed in the permit.

(3) The organism under permit must be maintained only in areas and premises specified in the permit.

(4) The identity of the organism under permit must be maintained and verifiable at all times.

(5) Authorized activities may be engaged in only while the permit is valid; the duration for which the permit is valid will be listed on the permit itself.
