
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 353 - EXPORT CERTIFICATION
##### ยง 353.6 Inspection.
###### Agent.

(a)(1) Agents may conduct phytosanitary field inspections of seed crops in cooperation with and on behalf of those State plant regulatory agencies electing to use agents and maintaining a Memorandum of Understanding with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in accordance with the regulations. The Memorandum of Understanding must state that agents shall be used in accordance with the regulations in this part. Agents are not authorized to issue Federal phytosanitary certificates, but are only authorized to conduct the field inspections of seed crops required as a basis for determining phytosanitary condition prior to the issuance of a phytosanitary certificate for the crops.

(2) To be eligible for designation as an agent, an individual must:

(i) Have the ability to recognize, in the crops he or she is responsible for inspecting, plant pests, including symptoms and/or signs of disease-causing organisms, of concern to importing countries.

(ii) Have a bachelor's degree in the biological sciences, and a minimum of 1 year's experience in identifying plant pests endemic to crops of commercial importance within the cooperating State, or a combination of higher education in the biological sciences and experience in identifying such plant pests, as follows:

(iii) Successfully complete annual training provided by the State plant regulatory agency. The required training must include instruction in inspection procedures, identification of plant pests of quarantine importance to importing countries, methods of collection and submission of specimens (organisms and/or plants or plant parts) for identification, and preparation and submission of inspection report forms approved by the State plant regulatory agency.

(iv) Have access to Federal or State laboratories for the positive identification of plants pests detected.

(3) No agents shall inspect any plants or plant products in which they or a member of their family are directly or indirectly financially interested.
