
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 353 - EXPORT CERTIFICATION
##### ยง 353.7 Certificates.
###### Termination of agreement.

(2)An agreement may be terminated by any signatory to the agreement by giving written notice of termination to the other party. The effective date of the termination will be 15 days after the date of actual receipt of the written notice. Any agreement may be immediately withdrawn by the Administrator if he or she determines that articles covered by the agreement were moved in violation of any requirement of this chapter or any provision of the agreement. If the withdrawal is oral, the decision to withdraw the agreement and the reasons for the withdrawal of the agreement shall be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances permit. Withdrawal of an agreement may be appealed in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receipt of the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the appellant relies to show that the agreement was wrongfully withdrawn. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for granting or denying the appeal as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact and the person from whom the agreement is withdrawn requests a hearing, a hearing shall be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing shall be adopted by the Administrator. No written agreement will be signed with an individual or a company representative of the concerned agricultural or forestry company or association who has had a written agreement withdrawn during the 12 months following such withdrawal, unless the withdrawn agreement was reinstated upon appeal.
