
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 353 - EXPORT CERTIFICATION
##### ยง 353.8 Accreditation of non-government facilities.

(a) The Administrator may accredit a non-government facility to perform specific laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services if the Administrator determines that the non-government facility meets the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) A non-government facility's compliance with the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section shall be determined through an assessment of the facility and its fitness to conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it seeks to be accredited. If, after evaluating the results of the assessment, the Administrator determines that the facility meets the accreditation criteria, the facility's application for accreditation will be approved.

(2) The Administrator may deny accreditation to, or withdraw the accreditation of, any non-government facility to conduct laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services upon a determination that the facility does not meet the criteria for accreditation or maintenance of accreditation under paragraph (b) of this section and has failed to take the remedial action recommended to correct identified deficiencies.

(i) In the case of a denial, the operator of the facility will be informed of the reasons for the denial and may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving notification of the denial. The appeal must include all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the facility was wrongfully denied accreditation. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, stating the reason for his or her decision. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.

(ii) In the case of withdrawal, before such action is taken, the operator of the facility will be informed of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal. The operator of the facility may appeal the proposed withdrawal in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after being informed of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal. The appeal must include all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the reasons for the proposed withdrawal are incorrect or do not support the withdrawal of the accreditation of the facility. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, stating the reason for his or her decision. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. However, withdrawal shall become effective pending final determination in the proceeding when the Administrator determines that such action is necessary to protect the public health, interest, or safety. Such withdrawal will be effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the operator of the facility. In the event of oral notification, written confirmation will be given as promptly as circumstances allow. This withdrawal will continue in effect pending the completion of the proceeding, and any judicial review thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator.

(3) The Administrator will withdraw the accreditation of a non-government facility if the operator of the facility informs APHIS in writing that the facility wishes to terminate its accredited status.

(4) A non-government facility whose accreditation has been denied or withdrawn may reapply for accreditation using the application procedures in paragraph (b) of this section. If the facility's accreditation was denied or withdrawn under the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the facility operator must include with the application written documentation specifying what actions have been taken to correct the conditions that led to the denial or withdrawal of accreditation.

(5) All information gathered during the course of a non-government facility's assessment and during the term of its accreditation will be treated by APHIS with the appropriate level of confidentiality, as set forth in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's administrative regulations in ยง 1.11 of this title.
