
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 353 - EXPORT CERTIFICATION
##### ยง 353.8 Accreditation of non-government facilities.
###### Fees and trust fund agreement.

(c)The fees charged by APHIS in connection with the initial accreditation of a non-government facility and the maintenance of that accreditation shall be adequate to recover the costs incurred by the government in the course of APHIS' accreditation activities. To cover those costs, the operator of the facility seeking accreditation must enter into a trust fund agreement with APHIS under which the operator of the facility will pay in advance all estimated costs that APHIS expects to incur through its involvement in the pre-accreditation assessment process and the maintenance of the facility's accreditation. Those costs shall include administrative expenses incurred in those activities, such as laboratory fees for evaluating check test results, and all salaries (including overtime and the Federal share of employee benefits), travel expenses (including per diem expenses), and other incidental expenses incurred by the APHIS in performing those activities. The operator of the facility must deposit a certified or cashier's check with APHIS for the amount of the costs, as estimated by APHIS. If the deposit is not sufficient to meet all costs incurred by APHIS, the operator of the facility must deposit another certified or cashier's check with APHIS for the amount of the remaining costs, as determined by APHIS, before APHIS' services will be completed. After a final audit at the conclusion of the pre-accreditation assessment, any overpayment of funds will be returned to the operator of the facility or held on account until needed for future activities related to the maintenance of the facility's accreditation.
