
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 354 - OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
##### ยง 354.3 User fees for certain international services.
###### Fee for inspection of commercial railroad cars.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an AQI user fee will be charged for each loaded commercial railroad car which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or under 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, upon each arrival. The railroad company receiving a commercial railroad car in interchange at a port of entry or, barring interchange, the railroad company moving a commercial railroad car in line haul service into the customs territory of the United States, is responsible for paying the AQI user fee. The AQI user fee for each arrival of a loaded railroad car is shown in the following table. If the AQI user fee is prepaid for all arrivals of a commercial railroad car during a calendar year, the AQI user fee is an amount 20 times the AQI user fee for each arrival.

(2) The following categories of commercial railroad cars are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:

(i) Any commercial railroad car that is part of a train whose journey originates and terminates in Canada if-

(A) The commercial railroad car is part of the train when the train departs Canada; and

(B) No passengers board or disembark from the commercial railroad car, and no cargo is loaded or unloaded from the commercial railroad car, while the train is within the United States.

(ii) Any commercial railroad car that is part of a train whose journey originates and terminates in the United States, if-

(A) The commercial railroad car is part of the train when the train departs the United States; and

(B) No passengers board or disembark from the commercial railroad car, and no cargo is loaded or unloaded from the commercial railroad car, while the train is within any country other than the United States; and

(iii) Locomotives and cabooses.

(3) Prepayment.

(i) Railroad companies may, at their option, prepay the AQI user fee for each commercial railroad car for a calendar year. This payment must be remitted in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(ii) No credit toward the calendar year AQI user fee will be given for AQI user fees paid for individual arrivals.

(4) Statement procedures. The Association of American Railroads (AAR), and the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), shall file monthly statements with the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000, within 60 days after the end of each calendar month. Each statement shall indicate:

(i) The number of loaded commercial railroad cars entering the customs territory of the United States during the relevant period;

(ii) The number of those commercial railroad cars pulled by each railroad company; and

(iii) The total monthly AQI user fee due from each railroad company.

(5) Remittance procedures. Individual railroad companies shall remit the AQI user fees calculated by AAR, and AMTRAK shall remit the AQI user fees it has calculated, within 60 days after the end of each calendar month in which commercial railroad cars entered the customs territory of the United States. AQI user fees, together with monthly statements, must be remitted to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.

(6) Compliance. AAR, AMTRAK, and each railroad company responsible for making AQI user fee payments must allow APHIS personnel to verify the accuracy of AQI user fees collected and remitted and otherwise determine compliance with 21 U.S.C. 136a and this paragraph. The AAR, AMTRAK, and each railroad company responsible for making AQI user fee payments must advise the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000, of the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, collections, and remittances, as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted.
