
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 354 - OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
##### ยง 354.3 User fees for certain international services.
###### Remittance and statement procedures.

(5)(i) The carrier whose ticket stock or travel document reflects collection of the AQI user fee must remit the fee to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000. The travel agent, United States-based tour wholesaler, or other entity, which issues its own non-carrier related ticket or travel document to a passenger who is subject to an AQI user fee under this part, must remit the fee to APHIS, unless by contract the carrier will remit the fee.

(ii) AQI user fees must be remitted to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000, for receipt no later than 31 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which the AQI user fees were collected. Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and handling charges as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717). Refunds by a remitter of AQI user fees collected in conjunction with unused tickets or travel documents shall be netted against the next subsequent remittance.

(iii) The remitter must mail with the remittance a written statement to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000. The statement must include the following information:

(A) Name and address of the person remitting payment;

(B) Taxpayer identification number of the person remitting payment;

(C) Calendar quarter covered by the payment; and

(D) Amount collected and remitted.

(iv) Remittances must be made by check or money order, payable in United States dollars, through a United States bank, to "The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service."
