
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 354 - OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
##### ยง 354.3 User fees for certain international services.
###### Fee for inspection of commercial aircraft.

(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, an AQI user fee will be charged for each commercial aircraft which is arriving, or which has arrived and is proceeding from one United States airport to another under a Bureau of Customs and Border Protection "Permit to Proceed," as specified in 19 CFR 122.81 through 122.85, or an "Agricultural Clearance or Safeguard Order" (PPQ Form 250), used pursuant to ยง 330.400 of this chapter and 9 CFR 94.5, and which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D. Each carrier is responsible for paying the AQI user fee. The AQI user fee for each arrival is shown in the following table:

(2) The following categories of commercial aircraft are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Any aircraft used exclusively in the governmental services of the United States or a foreign government, including any Agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, as long as the aircraft is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes;

(iii) Any aircraft making an emergency or forced landing when the original destination of the aircraft was a foreign port;

(iv) Any passenger aircraft with 64 or fewer seats, which is not carrying the following cargo: Fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, plants, unprocessed plant products, cotton or covers, sugarcane, or fresh or processed meats; and which does not offer meal service other than beverages and prepackaged snacks that do not contain meats derived from ruminants, swine, or poultry or fresh fruits and fresh vegetables. Aircraft exempt from the user fee under this paragraph would still be subject to the garbage handling requirements found in ยง 330.400 of this chapter and 9 CFR 94.5;

(v) Any aircraft moving from the United States Virgin Islands to Puerto Rico; and

(vi) Any aircraft making an intransit stop at a port of entry, during which the aircraft does not proceed through any portion of the Federal clearance process, such as inspection or clearance by APHIS or the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, no cargo is removed from or placed on the aircraft, no passengers get on or off the aircraft, no crew members get on or off the aircraft, no food is placed on the aircraft, and no garbage is removed from the aircraft.

(3) Remittance and statement procedures. (i) Each carrier must remit the appropriate fees to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000, for receipt no later than 31 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which the aircraft arrivals occurred. Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and handling charges as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).

(ii) The remitter must mail with the remittance a written statement to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000. The statement must include the following information:

(A) Name and address of the person remitting payment;

(B) Taxpayer identification number of the person remitting payment;

(C) Calendar quarter covered by the payment;

(D) Ports of entry at which inspections occurred;

(E) Number of arrivals at each port; and

(F) Amount remitted.

(iii) Remittances must be made by check or money order, payable in United States dollars, through a United States bank, to "The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service."

(4) Compliance. Each carrier subject to this section must allow APHIS personnel to verify the accuracy of the AQI user fees remitted and to otherwise determine compliance with 21 U.S.C. 136a and this paragraph. Each carrier must advise the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000, of the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations and remittances, as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted.

(5) Limitations on charges. (i) Airlines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for inspection of aircraft if the aircraft is subject to the AQI user fee for arriving aircraft as prescribed by this section.

(ii) Airlines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for inspection of cargo from an aircraft if:

(A) The aircraft is subject to the AQI user fee for arriving aircraft as prescribed by this section; and

(B) The cargo is inspected between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday; or

(C) The cargo is inspected concurrently with the aircraft.
