
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 354 - OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
##### ยง 354.3 User fees for certain international services.
###### Fee for inspection of commercial vessels of 100 net tons or more.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the master, licensed deck officer, or purser of any commercial vessel which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, and which is either required to make entry at the customs house under 19 CFR 4.3 or is a United States-flag vessel proceeding coastwise under 19 CFR 4.85, shall, upon arrival, proceed to Customs and pay an agricultural quarantine and inspection (AQI) user fee. The AQI user fee for each arrival is shown in the following table. The AQI user fee shall be collected at each port of arrival.

(2) The following categories of commercial vessels are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:

(i) Foreign passenger vessels making at least three trips a week from a port in the United States to the high seas (including "cruises to nowhere") and returning to the same port in the United States, not having touched any foreign port or place, or taken on any stores;

(ii) Any vessel which, at the time of arrival, is being used solely as a tugboat;

(iii) Vessels used exclusively in the governmental service of the United States or a foreign government, including any agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, so long as the vessel is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes;

(iv) Vessels arriving in distress or to take on fuel, sea stores, or ship's stores; and

(v) Tugboats towing vessels on the Great Lakes.

(vi) Barges traveling solely between the United States and Canada that do not carry cargo originating from countries other than the United States or Canada and do not carry plants or plant products, or animals or animal products, and that do not carry soil or quarry products from areas in Canada listed in ยง 319.77-3 of this chapter as being infested with gypsy moth.

(vii) Vessels returning to the United States after traveling to Canada solely to take on fuel.
