
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 354 - OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
##### ยง 354.3 User fees for certain international services.
###### Fees for export certification of plants and plant products.

(g)(1) For each certificate issued by APHIS personnel, the recipient must pay the applicable AQI user fee at the time and place the certificate is issued.

(2) When the work necessary for the issuance of a certificate is performed by APHIS personnel on a Sunday or holiday, or at any other time outside the regular tour of duty of the APHIS personnel issuing the certificate, in addition to the applicable user fee, the recipient must pay the applicable overtime rate in accordance with ยง 354.1.

(3)(i) Each exporter who receives a certificate issued on behalf of APHIS by a designated State or county inspector must pay an administrative user fee, as shown in the following table. The administrative fee can be remitted by the exporter directly to APHIS through the Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance and Tracking System (PCIT), provided that the exporter has a PCIT account and submits the application for the export certificate through the PCIT. If the PCIT is not used, the State or county issuing the certificate is responsible for collecting the fee and remitting it monthly to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture, APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979043, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.

(ii) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a commercial shipment are shown in the following table.

(iii) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a low-value commercial shipment are shown in the following table. A commercial shipment is a low-value commercial shipment if the items being shipped are identical to those identified on the certificate; the shipment is accompanied by an invoice which states that the items being shipped are worth less than $1,250; and the shipper requests that the user fee charged be based on the low value of the shipment.

(iv) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a noncommercial shipment are shown in the following table.

(v) The AQI user fees for replacing any certificate are shown in the following table.

(4) If a designated State inspector issues a certificate, the State where the certificate is issued may charge for inspection services provided in that State.

(5) Any State which wishes to charge a fee for services it provides to issue certificates must establish fees in accordance with one of the following guidelines:
