
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 354 - OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
##### ยง 354.3 User fees for certain international services.
###### Payment methods.

(i)For payment of any of the AQI user fees required in paragraph (g) of this section, we will accept personal checks for amounts less than $100, and checks drawn on commercial accounts, cashier's checks, certified checks, traveler's checks, and money orders for any amount. All payments must be for the exact amount due.

(j) The person for whom the service is provided and the person requesting the service are jointly and severally liable for payment of user fees for any import or entry services listed below, of $56 per hour, or $14 per quarter hour, with a minimum fee of $14 for each employee required to perform the following services. If the services must be conducted on a Sunday or holiday or at any other time outside the normal tour of duty of the employee, then the premium user fee rate as listed below applies, as well as the 2-hour minimum charge and a commuted traveltime period required by ยง 354.1(a)(2). If the services requested are performed on a Sunday, the hourly user fee rate will be $74, or $18.50 per quarter hour, with a $18.50 minimum. If the services requested are performed on a day other than Sunday outside the normal tour of duty of the employee providing the service, the hourly user fee rate will be $65, or $16.25 per quarter hour, with a $16.25 minimum:

(1) Conducting inspections, on vessels or in storage areas, of solid wood packing material or cargo when a shipment arrives without a certificate or exporter statement required under ยง 319.40-5(g) or ยง 319.40-5(h) of this chapter, or with an incomplete certificate or exporter statement; and

(2) Supervising the separation of cargo from solid wood packing material denied entry under this subpart and the destruction or reexportation of the solid wood packing material.
