
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 356 - FORFEITURE PROCEDURES
##### ยง 356.4 Property valued at $10,000 or less; notice of seizure administrative action to obtain forfeiture.
###### Summary forfeiture.

(d)If a proper claim and bond are not received by the specified office within the time periods as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the property shall be forfeited and the Deputy Administrator shall prepare a declaration of forfeiture. The declaration of forfeiture shall be in writing, and the Deputy Administrator shall send such declaration by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to each person whose whereabouts and prior interests in the seized property are known or reasonably ascertainable. The declaration shall be in substantially the same form as a default judgment of forfeiture entered in U.S. District Court. The declaration shall describe the property and state the time, date, place, and reason for its seizure. The declaration shall identify the notice of proposed forfeiture, describing the dates and manner of publication of the notice and any efforts made to serve the notice personally or by mail. The declaration shall state that in response to the notice a proper claim and bond were not timely received by the proper office from any claimant, and that, therefore, all potential claimants are deemed to admit the truth of the allegations of the notice. The declaration shall conclude with an order of condemnation and forfeiture of the property to the United States for disposition according to law.
