
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 360 - NOXIOUS WEED REGULATIONS
##### ยง 360.304 Denial of an application for a permit to move a noxious weed; revocation of a permit to move a noxious weed.

(a) The Administrator may deny an application for a permit to move a noxious weed when the Administrator determines that:

(1) No safeguards adequate or appropriate to prevent dissemination of the noxious weed can be implemented; or

(2) The destructive potential of the noxious weed, should it escape despite proposed safeguards, outweighs the probable benefits to be derived from the proposed movement and use of the noxious weed; or

(3) The responsible person, or the responsible person's agent, as a previous permittee, failed to maintain the safeguards or otherwise observe the conditions prescribed in a previous permit and failed to demonstrate the ability or intent to observe them in the future; or

(4) The movement could impede an APHIS eradication, suppression, control, or regulatory program; or

(5) A State plant regulatory official objects to the issuance of the permit on the grounds that granting the permit will pose a risk of dissemination of the noxious weed into the State; or

(6) The application for the permit contains information that is found to be materially false, fraudulent, or deceptive; or

(7) APHIS may deny a permit to a person who has previously failed to comply with any APHIS regulation.

(b) The Administrator may revoke any outstanding permit when:

(1) After the issuance of the permit, information is received that constitutes cause for the denial of an application for permit under paragraph (a) of this section; or

(2) The responsible person has not maintained the safeguards or otherwise observed the conditions specified in the permit.

(c) If a permit is orally revoked, APHIS will provide the reasons for the withdrawal of the permit in writing within 10 days. Any person whose permit has been revoked or any person who has been denied a permit may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification of the revocation or denial. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the permit was wrongfully revoked or denied. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
