
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 361 - IMPORTATION OF SEED AND SCREENINGS UNDER THE FEDERAL SEED ACT
##### § 361.2 Preemption of State and local laws; general restrictions on the importation of seed and screenings.

(a) The regulations in this part preempt State and local laws regarding seed and screenings imported into the United States while the seed and screenings are in foreign commerce. Seed and screenings imported for immediate distribution and sale to the consuming public remain in foreign commerce until sold to the ultimate consumer. The question of when foreign commerce ceases in other cases must be considered on a case-by-case basis.

(b) No person shall import any agricultural seed, vegetable seed, or screenings into the United States unless the importation is in compliance with this part.

(c) Any agricultural seed, vegetable seed, or screenings imported into the United States not in compliance with this part shall be subject to exportation, destruction, disposal, or any remedial measures that the Administrator determines are necessary to prevent the dissemination into the United States of noxious weeds.

(d) Except as provided in § 361.7(b), and in addition to the permit requirements of § 319.37-5 of this chapter, coated or pelleted seed, or seed that is embedded in a substrate that obscures visibility may enter the United States only if each lot of seed is accompanied by an officially drawn and sealed sample of seed drawn from the lot before the seed was coated or pelleted. The sample must be drawn in a manner consistent with that described in § 361.5 of this part.

(e) Except as provided in §§ 361.4(a)(3) and 361.7(c), screenings of all agricultural seed and vegetable seed are prohibited entry into the United States.
