
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 361 - IMPORTATION OF SEED AND SCREENINGS UNDER THE FEDERAL SEED ACT
##### ยง 361.8 Cleaning of imported seed and processing of certain Canadian-origin screenings.

(a) Imported seed that is found to contain noxious weed seeds at a level higher than the tolerances set forth in ยง 361.6(b) may be cleaned under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector. The cleaning will be at the expense of the owner or consignee.

(1) At the location where the seed is being cleaned, the identity of the seed must be maintained at all times to the satisfaction of the Administrator. The refuse from the cleaning must be placed in containers and securely sealed and identified. Upon completion of the cleaning, a representative sample of the seed will be analyzed by a registered seed technologist, an official seed laboratory, or by APHIS; if the seed is found to be within the noxious weed tolerances set forth in ยง 361.6(b), the seed may be allowed entry into the United States;

(2) The refuse from the cleaning must be destroyed under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector at the expense of the owner or consignee of the seed.

(3) Any person engaged in the business of cleaning imported seed may enter into a compliance agreement under paragraph (c) of this section to facilitate the cleaning of seed imported into the United States under this part.

(b) Any person engaged in the business of processing screenings who wishes to process screenings imported from Canada under ยง 361.7(c) that are otherwise prohibited under this part must enter into a compliance agreement under paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) A compliance agreement for the cleaning of imported seed or processing of otherwise prohibited screenings from Canada shall be a written agreementbetween a person engaged in such a business, the State in which the business operates, and APHIS, wherein the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this part and any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. Any compliance agreement may be canceled orally or in writing by the APHIS inspector who is monitoring its enforcement whenever the inspector finds that the person who entered into the compliance agreement has failed to comply with the provisions of this part or any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons for the decision shall be confirmed in writing, as promptly as circumstances permit. Any person whose compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision to the Administrator, in writing, within 10 days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully canceled. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for such decision, as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
