
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 361 - IMPORTATION OF SEED AND SCREENINGS UNDER THE FEDERAL SEED ACT
##### § 361.7 Special provisions for Canadian-origin seed and screenings.

(a) In addition to meeting the declaration and labeling requirements of § 361.2 and all other applicable provisions of this part, all Canadian-origin agricultural seed and Canadian-origin vegetable seed imported into the United States from Canada for seeding (planting) purposes or cleaning must be accompanied by a certificate of analysis issued by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency or by a private seed laboratory accredited by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency. Samples of seed shall be drawn using sampling methods comparable to those detailed in § 361.5 of this part. The seed analyst who examines the seed at the laboratory must be accredited to analyze the kind of seed covered by the certificate.

(1) If the seed is being imported for seeding (planting) purposes, the certificate of analysis must verify that the seed meets the noxious weed seed tolerances of § 361.6. Such seed will not be subject to the sampling requirements of § 361.3(b).

(2) If the seed is being imported for cleaning, the certificate of analysis must name the kinds of noxious weed seeds that are to be removed from the lot of seed. Seed being imported for cleaning must be consigned to a facility operated in accordance with § 361.8(a).

(b) Coated or pelleted agricultural seed and coated or pelleted vegetable seed of Canadian origin may be imported into the United States if the seed was analyzed prior to being coated or pelleted and is accompanied by a certificate of analysis issued in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Screenings otherwise prohibited under this part may be imported from Canada if the screenings are imported for processing or manufacture and are consigned to a facility operating under a compliance agreement as provided by § 361.8(b).
