
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 371 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
##### ยง 371.3 Plant protection and quarantine.
###### Deputy Administrator of PPQ.

(b)The Deputy Administrator of PPQ is responsible for:

(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of policies, programs, procedures, and activities of APHIS.

(2) Providing direction and coordination for PPQ programs and activities. The authorities for PPQ programs include:

(i) The Terminal Inspection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 166);

(ii) The Honeybee Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 281 through 286);

(iii) Sections 1 and 15 of the Federal Noxious Weed Act of 1974, (7 U.S.C. 2801 note and 7 U.S.C. 2814);

(iv) The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1544);

(v) Executive Order 13112;

(vi) The responsibilities of the United States under the International Plant Protection Convention;

(vii) Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3371 through 3378);

(viii) Title III (and Title IV to the extent that it relates to activities under Title III) of the Federal Seed Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1581 through 1610);

(ix) Authority to prescribe and collect fees under The Act of August 31, 1951, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9701), and sections 2508 and 2509 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, as amended (21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a);

(x) Plant Protection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 7701-7786).

(xi) Authority to collect reimbursement for overtime paid to employees for inspection or quarantine services (7 U.S.C. 2260).

(xii) Title V of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 2279e and 2279f).

(xiii) title II, Subtitle B, of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8401 not and 8401).

(3) Developing of regulations (including quarantines) regarding noxious weeds and plant pests and diseases.

(4) Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to State and local governments, farmer's associations, and individuals with regard to plant pest control. Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to foreign governments with regard to plant pests and diseases.

(5) Assisting in the development of sanitary and phytosanitary measures.

(6) Regulating the field release into the environment, interstate movement, and importation of genetically modified organisms.

(7) Serving as a member of the North American Plant Protection Organization (NAPPO). NAPPO is composed of plant protection officials and industry cooperators from Canada, Mexico, and the United States.

(8) Administering plant and animal pest and disease exclusion policies, procedures, and regulations at international ports of entry (land, sea, and air) relative to all plants and plant and animal products and associated materials (excluding live animals).

(9) Providing laboratory support, diagnostic services, methods development, and research activities in support of PPQ programs.
